Item 1A. Risk FactorsOil and natural gas prices are volatile, and declines in prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flow. Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, rate of growth and the carrying amount of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production and the prices prevailing from time to time for oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical conditions. This price volatility also affects the amount of cash flow we have available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors beyond our control, including: •the level of consumer demand for oil and natural gas;•the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas and the productive capacity of the industry as a whole;•proximity, availability and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, rail cars, other transportation methods and commodity processing and refining facilities;•the price and level of imports of foreign oil and natural gas;•developments of the energy infrastructure in the United States, including pipelines and liquefied natural gas facilities;•the actions of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and their ability to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;•the global and domestic credit, financial and economic environment;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;•the fluctuation of the United States dollar against other currencies;•the price and availability of competitors' oil and natural gas supplies in captive markets and of alternative fuel sources;•weather conditions;•political and economic conditions, embargoes and political instability, insurgency, terrorism, or war in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa and South America, or otherwise affecting other oil and natural gas activities;•technological advances affecting energy production and consumption;•variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices; and•acts of force majeure. These factors and the volatility of oil and natural gas markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce our revenues and could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically, which could lower our recognized reserve quantities and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows.Future oil and natural gas price declines may result in write-downs of the carrying amount of our assets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our ability to borrow funds. The value of our assets depends on oil and natural gas prices. Declines in these prices as well as increases in development costs, changes in well performance, delays in asset development or deterioration of drilling results may result in our having to make material 18Table of Contentsdownward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, and accounting rules may require us to write down, and incur a corresponding non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying amount of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments.Proved oil and natural gas properties are reviewed for impairment on a field-by-field basis when events and circumstances indicate a possible decline in the recoverability of the carrying amount of such property. We estimate the expected future cash flows of our oil and natural gas properties and compare these undiscounted cash flows to the carrying amount of the oil and natural gas properties to determine if the carrying amount is recoverable. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows, we will write down the carrying amount of the oil and natural gas properties to fair value. The factors used to determine fair value include, but are not limited to, estimates of reserves, future commodity prices, future production estimates, estimated future capital expenditures and discount rates commensurate with the risk associated with realizing the projected cash flows. For example, in 2011 we recorded an impairment of $625.0 million related to our E. Texas natural gas assets, largely due to the impact of lower natural gas prices. See Notes 8 and 10 to the Financial Statements. If commodity prices decline in the future, we may incur additional impairment charges, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.The borrowing base of our credit facility is subject to semi-annual redeterminations in April and October of each year, based on the value of our oil and natural gas properties, in accordance with the lenders' customary procedures and practices. We and the lenders each have a right to one additional redetermination each year. As of December 31, 2012, the borrowing base under our credit facility was $1.4 billion and total lender commitments were $1.2 billion. Declines in oil or natural gas prices in the future could limit our borrowing base and reduce our ability to borrow under our credit facility. Additionally, divestitures of properties could result in a reduction of our borrowing base.We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our operations, engage in acquisition activities and replace our production, and we may be unable to obtain financing on satisfactory terms necessary to execute our operating strategy. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our production, development and exploration activities, engage in acquisition activities and replace our production. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of our cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and the capital markets. Our access to capital is subject to a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include, among others: •the market value and performance of our debt and equity securities;•the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent rating agencies; and•the global and domestic credit, financial and economic environment. If our cash flows from operations or the borrowing base under our credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. Further, our credit facility places certain restrictions on our ability to obtain new financing, and we may not be able to obtain new financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or borrowings under our credit facility are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our development and exploration activities, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves as well as our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows.The actual quantities and present values of our proved oil and natural gas reserves may be less than we have estimated. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Estimating accumulations of oil and natural gas is a complex process that relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds, some of which are mandated by the SEC. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, production taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of producible oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially and adversely affect the estimated quantities of and present values related to our proved reserves, and the actual quantities and present values may be less than we have previously estimated. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, costs to develop and operate properties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production on adjacent properties.19Table of ContentsFurther, it should not be assumed that any present value of future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves represents the market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on first-day-of-month average oil and natural gas prices for the twelve-month period preceding the estimate and on costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net revenues will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual development expenditures, the rate and timing of production and changes in governmental regulations or taxes. Approximately 45% of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2012, were undeveloped, and those reserves may not ultimately be developed. Recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve estimates include the assumption that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop these undeveloped reserves and the actual costs, development schedule and results associated with these properties may not be as estimated. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, access rights and constraints, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. In addition, the SEC rules generally require that reserves classified as proved undeveloped be capable of conversion into proved developed within five years of classification unless specific circumstances justify a longer time. Proved undeveloped reserves that are not timely developed are subject to possible reclassification as non-proved reserves. These requirements may limit our ability to classify additional reserves as proved undeveloped as we pursue our drilling program. Material downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. We depend on successful exploration, development and acquisitions to maintain reserves and revenue in the future. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. The rate of decline will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated. Our future oil and natural gas production is, therefore, highly dependent on our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves and efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and operating cash flows.Recent regulatory changes in California have and may continue to materially and adversely impact our production and operating costs related to our Diatomite assets. Recent regulatory changes in California have impacted our Diatomite production. In 2010, Diatomite production decreased significantly due to the inability to drill new wells pending the receipt of permits from DOGGR. We received a new full-field development approval in late July 2011 from DOGGR, which contained stringent operating requirements. Revisions to the July 11 project approval letter were received in February 2012. Implementation of these new operating requirements negatively impacted the pace of drilling and steam injection and increased our operating costs for our Diatomite assets. The requirements continued to affect our operations through 2012, and we may not be successful in streamlining the review process with DOGGR or in taking additional steps to more efficiently manage our operations to avoid additional delays. In addition, DOGGR may impose additional operational restrictions or requirements. In such case, we may experience additional delays in production and increased operating costs related to our Diatomite assets, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and operating cash flows.Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. For example, refinery constraints in the Utah region, coupled with our increased production in the area, have impacted the immediate marketability of a portion of our Utah oil, and have caused us to pursue alternate transportation methods and sales outlets. Beginning in 2013, these constraints have caused us to initiate measures to reduce production, such as shutting in some of our wells and postponing completions of some of our newly drilled wells. We may not be successful in securing alternative sales outlets for our Utah production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines, rail transportation and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, processing facilities, 20Table of Contentstrucking and rail capability and refineries owned and operated by third parties. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of oil and natural gas pipelines, gathering system capacity, storage capacity, processing facilities or refineries. Decreased access to oil and natural gas markets or access to such markets on unacceptable terms could result in increased costs, decreased margins, decreased production, or other factors which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and operating cash flows.We may not be able to deliver minimum crude oil volumes required by our sales contract. Production volumes from our Uinta properties over the next several years are uncertain, and there is no assurance that we will be able to consistently meet the required volume under our refining contract relating to our production from these properties, which is 5,000 Bbl/d. In the event that we cannot produce the necessary volume, we may need to purchase crude to meet our contract requirements. Gross oil production from our Uinta properties subject to the terms of this contract averaged approximately 4,420 Bbl/d during 2012.The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results. We have significant concentrations of credit risk with the purchasers of our oil and natural gas. For example, 43% of our oil production is sold to one refiner in California. Due to the terms of supply agreements with our customers, we may not know that a customer is unable to make payment to us until months after production has been delivered. If the purchasers of our oil and natural gas become insolvent, we may be unable to collect amounts owed to us, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows.Drilling is a high-risk activity and as a result we may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule or our drilling program may not result in commercially productive reserves. Our future success will partly depend on the success of our drilling program. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame, or at all. Our decisions to explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend on a number of factors, including:•results of our exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of our seismic data, if any;•availability of sufficient capital resources to us and any other participants for the drilling of the prospects;•approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled;•economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability and prices of drilling rigs and crews; •availability of leases, license options, farm-outs, other rights to explore and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects; and•overruns in budgeted expenditures and future costs of drilling and completing wells. Additionally, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:•unexpected drilling conditions;•well integrity issues and surface expressions;•pressure or irregularities in formations;•equipment failures or accidents;•adverse weather conditions;•changes in regulations;•compliance with governmental or landowner requirements; •disputes with mineral interest or surface owners and access constraints or limitations on surface use on or near our operating areas;•loss of title or other title related issues;•availability, capacity, costs and contractual terms with respect to pipelines, rail transportation and facilities to gather, process, compress, transport and market oil and natural gas; and•shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment and/or services, including experienced labor.Our drilling plans require drilling permits from state, local and other governmental authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and drilling permits, including delays which jeopardize our ability to realize the potential benefits from leased properties within the applicable lease periods, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to explore on or develop our properties.21Table of ContentsShortages of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could delay our drilling program and increase the prices we pay to obtain such equipment, services and personnel. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations such as geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other oilfield equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling and workover rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. It is beyond our control and ability to predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. The availability of drilling rigs can vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Although land drilling rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of demand, an undersupply of rigs in any region may result in drilling delays and higher drilling costs for the rigs that are available in that region. These types of shortages or price increases could restrict our ability to drill planned wells, conduct planned operations, or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows.We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired operations, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow. Our business strategy has emphasized growth through strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to continue to identify properties for acquisition or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from completing, acquisitions. Our strategy of completing acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. If we are unable to achieve strategic acquisitions, our growth may be impaired, thus impacting our financial condition, results of operations, operating cash flows and reserves. In addition, we may have difficulty integrating the operations, systems, management and other personnel and technology of acquired assets or businesses with our own. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional debt or issue additional equity to pay for any future acquisitions, which issuances may be substantial and could significantly affect our risk profile. Significant acquisitions or other transactions could change or alter the character of our operations and business if the character of acquired properties is different from that of our current properties.Acquisitions are subject to the uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in part to acquisitions of properties with additional development potential and properties with minimal production at acquisition but significant growth potential, and we expect acquisitions will continue to contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, production taxes, access rights and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties, which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties, and we do not always discover structural, subsurface, environmental and access problems that may exist or arise. Our review prior to signing a definitive purchase agreement may be even more limited.There may be threatened or contemplated claims against the assets or businesses we acquire related to environmental, title, regulatory, tax, contract, litigation or other matters of which we are unaware, which could materially and adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. We may not be entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, on acquisitions. We may acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. If material breaches are discovered by us prior to closing, we could require adjustments to the purchase price or, if the claims are significant, we or the seller may have a right to terminate the agreement. If we fail to discover breaches or defects prior to closing, we may incur significant unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, for which we would have limited or no contractual remedies or insurance coverage.We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies. We acquire working and revenue interests in the oil and natural gas leaseholds and estates upon which we will perform our exploration activities from third parties, or directly from the mineral fee owners. The existence of a material title deficiency can reduce the value or render a property worthless, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flow. Title insurance covering mineral leaseholds is not always available, and when available is not always obtained. As is customary in our industry, we rely upon the judgment of staff and independent landmen who perform the field work of examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest and/or undertake drilling activities. We, in some cases, perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title to us. In 22Table of Contentscases involving material title problems, the amount paid for affected oil and natural gas leases or estates can be generally lost, and a prospect can become undrillable.We may incur material losses and be subject to material liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to many risks, including fires, explosions, well blowouts, surface expressions, uncontrollable flows of oil and natural gas, formation water or drilling fluids, adverse weather, freezing conditions in our various regions, natural disasters, pipe or cement failures, casing collapse, embedded oilfield drilling and service tools, formations with abnormal pressures, major equipment failures, including cogeneration facilities, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental risks and hazards. The occurrence of these events could also impact other parties, including residential areas near our operations, our employees and employees of our contractors, leading to injuries, death, environmental damage, property damage, or suspension of operations. As a result, we face the possibility of liabilities from these events that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations as well as regulatory actions and adverse publicity that could lead to delays in or cessation of our operations in the affected area and loss of related assets or revenues.Under certain circumstances, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners or operators of properties that we own, lease, or operate. As a result, we may incur material liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development, or acquisitions, or cause us to incur losses.We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. We currently have insurance policies covering our operations that include coverage for general liability, excess liability, physical damage to our oil and natural gas properties, operational control of wells, oil pollution, third-party liability, workers' compensation and employers' liability and other coverages. While we intend to obtain and maintain insurance coverage we deem appropriate for these risks, there can be no assurance that our operations will not expose us to liabilities exceeding such insurance coverage or to liabilities not covered by insurance. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. Our use of hedging transactions could result in financial losses or reduce our earnings. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, we have entered into and expect in the future to enter into derivative instruments (or hedging contracts) for a portion of our anticipated oil and natural gas production or natural gas consumption. Our hedging transactions expose us to certain risks and financial losses, including, among others, the risk that we may be limited in receiving the full benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices as a result of these transactions, and that we may hedge too much or too little production or consumption depending on how oil and natural gas prices fluctuate in the future.Due to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, we may be required to recognize unrealized gains and losses (non-cash changes in fair value) on derivative instruments as the estimated fair value of our commodity derivative instruments is subject to significant fluctuations from period to period. The amount of any actual gains or losses recognized will likely differ from our period to period estimates and will be a function of the actual price of the commodities on the settlement date of the derivative instrument. We expect that commodity prices will continue to fluctuate in the future and, as a result, our periodic financial results will continue to be subject to fluctuations related to our derivative instruments. Our financial counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations. We rely on financial institutions to fund their obligations under our credit facility and make payments to us under our commodity hedging contracts. Currently, all of our outstanding commodity derivative instruments are with lenders or affiliates of the lenders under our credit facility. The risk that a counterparty may default on its obligations was heightened by the recent financial crisis, global economic slowdown, European sovereign debt crisis and related losses incurred by many banks and other financial institutions, including some of our counterparties or their affiliates. If one or more of our financial counterparties becomes insolvent, they may not be able to meet their commitment to fund future borrowings under our credit facility which would reduce our liquidity and materially and adversely affect our ability to fund capital expenditures and make acquisitions. If our financial counterparties are unable to make payments under our commodity hedging contracts, our cash receipts from derivative settlements would decrease at a time when we would also be impacted by low commodity prices. As a result, this could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. A widening of commodity differentials may materially and adversely impact our revenues and our economics. The oil and natural gas we produce is priced in local markets where production occurs and is based on local or regional supply and demand factors as well as other local market dynamics such as regional storage capacity and transportation. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production are generally lower than the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX or 23Table of ContentsBrent, that are used for calculating commodity derivative positions. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we receive is called a differential. We may be unable to accurately predict oil and natural gas differentials, which may widen significantly in the future. Numerous factors may influence local commodity pricing, such as refinery capacity, pipeline takeaway capacity and specifications, localized storage capacity, upsets in the mid-stream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions and governmental regulations. We may be materially and adversely impacted by a widening differential on the products we sell. Our commodity hedging contracts are typically based on West Texas intermediate (WTI) or other oil or natural gas index prices. As a result, we may be subject to “basis risk” if the differential on products we sell widens from the benchmarks used in our commodity hedging contracts. Additionally, regional capacity and storage issues may cause benchmark prices to become disconnected from regional oil and natural gas prices which may materially and adversely affect our ability to hedge using contracts based on such indices. Insufficient pipeline capacity, storage capacity or trucking or rail transportation capability and the lack of demand in any given operating area may cause the differential to widen in that area compared to other oil and natural gas producing areas. Increases in the differential between benchmark prices for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and operating cash flows.A shortage or increase in the price of natural gas in California could materially and adversely affect our business. The development of our heavy oil in California is subject to our ability to make sufficient quantities of steam at a an economic cost. We may be subject to the risks associated with a shortage of natural gas and/or the transportation of natural gas into and within California. We are highly dependent on sufficient volumes of natural gas necessary to use for fuel in generating steam in our heavy oil operations in California. If the required volume of natural gas for use in our operations were to be unavailable or too highly priced to produce heavy oil economically, our production could be materially and adversely impacted.We are dependent on our cogeneration facilities and deteriorations in the electricity market and regulatory changes in California may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. We are dependent on three cogeneration facilities that, combined, provide approximately 17% of our steam capacity as of December 31, 2012. These facilities are dependent on viable contracts for the sale of electricity. Market fluctuations in electricity prices and regulatory changes in California could adversely affect the economics of our cogeneration facilities and the corresponding increase in the price of steam could significantly impact our operating costs. If we are unable to enter into new or replacement contracts or were to lose existing contracts, we may be unable to meet our steam requirements necessary to maximize production from our heavy oil assets. An additional investment in various steam sources may be necessary to replace such steam, and there may be risks and delays in being able to install conventional steam equipment due to permitting requirements and availability of equipment. The financial cost and timing of such new investment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. For a more detailed discussion of our electricity sales contracts, see Part I, Item 1, "Business—Electricity." Changes to current income tax laws may affect our ability to take certain deductions. Substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws have been proposed that, if adopted, would affect, among other things, our ability to take certain deductions related to our operations, including depletion deductions, deductions for intangible drilling and development costs and deductions for United States production activities. These changes, if enacted into law, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows.Recently enacted derivatives legislation could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. New comprehensive financial reform legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010. The legislation calls for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to regulate certain markets for over-the-counter (OTC) derivative products. In its rulemaking under the new legislation, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalent. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was challenged in court by two industry associations and was vacated and remanded by a federal district court. The CFTC appealed the district court's ruling and that appeal is pending. The financial reform legislation may also require our swap-dealer counterparties to comply with margin requirements and/or capital requirements relating to our uncleared swaps with those counterparties, but the timing of any adoption of any such regulations, and their scope, are uncertain. These and other CFTC rules implementing Dodd-Frank could impose burdens on market participants to such an extent that liquidity in the bilateral OTC derivative market decreases substantially. The legislation and new regulations may also require counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The new legislation and any new regulations, including determinations with respect to the applicability of margin and capital requirements for uncleared trades, could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize 24Table of Contentsor restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could limit our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. Competition within our industry is intense and may materially and adversely affect our operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies in acquiring desirable oil and natural gas properties and in obtaining the equipment and labor required to develop and operate such properties. We also compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies in the marketing and sale of oil and natural gas. Many of our competitors are larger, fully integrated energy companies that have financial, staff and other resources substantially greater than ours, may be less leveraged than we are and have a lower cost of capital. As a result, our competitors may have greater access to capital and may be able to pay more for development prospects and producing properties, or evaluate and bid for a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial and staffing resources permit. Our competitors may be able to expend greater resources on changing technologies that are increasingly important to efficiency and success in the industry and may also have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices or to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. From time to time, we have to compete with financial investors in the property acquisition market, including private equity sponsors with more funds and access to additional liquidity. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. In addition, oil and natural gas producers are increasingly facing competition from providers of alternative energy, and government policy may favor those competitors in the future. We can give no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various environmental and other governmental laws and regulations that may materially affect our operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive U.S. federal, state, local and Tribal laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may be changed in response to economic, political or other conditions. There can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Matters subject to regulation include the following:•discharge permits for drilling operations;•reports concerning operations;•well spacing;•unitization and pooling of properties; and•taxation.Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Environmental Matters and Other Regulations" for additional information on the effect of environmental laws and regulations. Many of the laws and regulations to which our operations are subject include those relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of materials into the water and air, the generation, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. We may be required to incur material operating costs or significant additional capital expenditures in order to comply with environmental regulations and in connection with obtaining and maintaining construction and operating permits and approvals from state and federal regulatory agencies. The costs related to compliance with environmental regulations could include costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or to comply with regulatory reporting requirements. We could also incur material costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations not only expose us to liability for our own activities, but may also expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for actions by us that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. In particular, regulation of GHG emissions by Congress, the EPA, or various other legislative or regulatory bodies in the United States could have an adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, and results of operations and demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. The level of expenditure required to comply with GHG laws and regulations is uncertain and is expected to vary depending on the laws and regulations enacted in each jurisdiction, our activities, and market conditions. The effect of GHG regulations on our financial performance will depend on the sectors covered, GHG emissions reductions required, the extent to which we would receive GHG allowance allocations or the extent to which we would need to purchase 25Table of Contentscompliance instruments in the open market or through auctions, the price and availability of compliance instruments and the impact of GHG laws and regulations on our ability to recover the costs incurred through the pricing of our products. For example, GHG regulations in the state of California will likely increase our operating costs in that state. See "California GHG Regulations" under Part I, Item 1, “Business—Environmental Matters and Other Regulations" for more detail. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows.In addition, we could incur material expenditures complying with environmental laws and regulations, including future environmental laws and regulations that may be more stringent including, for example, the regulation of GHG emissions under new federal legislation, the federal Clean Air Act, or state or regional regulatory programs. In addition, changes in interpretations of or enforcement of existing laws may cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Operating in densely populated regions may expose us to additional risk of regulation, as well as claims by property owners and others affected by such operations. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Environmental Matters and Other Regulations” for more detail on both current and potential governmental regulation. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. Due to concerns raised relating to potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on groundwater quality, legislative and regulatory efforts at the Federal level and in some states have been initiated to render permitting and compliance requirements more stringent for hydraulic fracturing or prohibit the activity altogether. For example, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving fluids that contain diesel fuel under the SDWA's Underground Injection Control Program and has released draft permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing operations that use diesel fuel in fracturing fluids in those states where the EPA is the permitting authority. In addition, both Texas and Colorado have adopted public disclosure regulations requiring varying degrees of disclosure of the constituents in hydraulic fracturing fluids. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, complete oil and natural gas wells in shale formations, and obtain permits, and could increase our costs of compliance and doing business. For a more detailed discussion of hydraulic fracturing matters impacting our business, see Part I, Item 1, “Business—Environmental Matters and Other Regulations.”Our ability to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling and completion operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use at a reasonable cost. The hydraulic fracturing process on which we depend to drill for commercial quantities of oil and natural gas requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage, and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions, or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows.The loss of key personnel could materially and adversely affect our business. We depend to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of our executive management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of these or other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, and we do not maintain key man insurance on the lives of any of these persons. Our drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, compensate and retain experienced geologists, engineers, landmen and other professionals. Competition for many of these professionals is intense. If we cannot attract, compensate and retain experienced technical personnel and other professionals, our ability to compete could be harmed.Interruptions in information technology systems and infrastructure could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is increasingly dependent on information technology systems to conduct exploration, development and production activities. System failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruptions in our exploration or production operations. In addition, the oil and gas distribution and transportation systems on which we rely to deliver our production to market depend upon information technology systems and infrastructure. Cyber attacks directed at the oil and gas industry could damage distribution and storage assets or the environment, delay or prevent delivery of production to markets and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. While we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network 26Table of Contentssecurity and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure, network disruption or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. Further, as technology continues to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities.We have a substantial amount of debt and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect our business, and such risk could increase if we incur more debt. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $1.7 billion of total outstanding long-term debt, including $562.9 million of outstanding borrowings under our credit facility (excluding $23.2 million of outstanding letters of credit). Total lender commitments under the facility are $1.2 billion, and the borrowing base is currently approximately $1.4 billion. Our level of indebtedness relative to our proved reserves and the significant demands on our cash resources could have important effects on our business. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness permit us to incur substantial additional indebtedness, which additional indebtedness could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior notes and our other debt; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our operating cash flows to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; •require us to make principal payments under our credit facility if the quantity of proved reserves attributable to our natural gas and crude oil properties are insufficient to support our level of borrowings under the credit facility; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the oil and natural gas industry; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financing flexibility than we do;•limit our financial flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends, make capital expenditures and other investments and acquisitions; •increase our interest expense if interest rates increase; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and •result in an event of default upon a failure to comply with financial covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to pay the principal and interest on our long-term debt and to satisfy our other liabilities may depend upon our future performance and our ability to refinance our debt as it becomes due. Our future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by economic and capital markets conditions, oil and natural gas prices, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operating costs, we will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include reducing or delaying capital expenditures, seeking additional debt financing or equity capital, selling assets or restructuring or refinancing debt. There can be no assurance that any such strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all.Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to respond to changing conditions. Agreements governing our outstanding debt restrict our ability to, among other things:•incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue redeemable stock;•pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock;•prepay, redeem or repurchase debt that is junior in right of payment to our senior and subordinated notes;•make loans and other types of investments;•incur liens;•sell or otherwise dispose of assets;•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person;•make capital expenditures or acquire assets or businesses;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•enter into new lines of business. In addition, our credit facility contains certain covenants, which, among other things, require the maintenance of (i) an interest coverage ratio of 2.75 to 1.0 and (ii) a minimum current ratio of 1.0 to 1.0. Our ability to borrow under our credit facility is dependent upon the quantity of proved reserves attributable to our oil and natural gas properties and the respective projected commodity prices as determined by the lenders under our credit facility. Our ability to meet these covenants or requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will satisfy such covenants and requirements.27Table of ContentsA downgrade in our credit rating could materially and adversely impact our cost of and ability to access capital. Our access to credit and capital markets also depends on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix and commodity pricing levels. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access capital or financial markets in the future, increase our borrowing costs and potentially require us to post letters of credit for certain obligations.Risk Factors Related to the Proposed Merger with LinnCo, LLCFailure to complete or delays in completing the merger could have an adverse impact on our stock price and our business. If the merger is not completed, or there are delays in completing the merger, our stock price and our business could be adversely affected and we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following:•the current trading price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed and a failure to complete or delays in completing the merger could result in a decline in the price of our common stock;•we may not realize the benefits expected from the merger, including cost savings, enhanced financial and competitive position and diversification of customer base, operating locations and assets;•we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, including certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and expenses, whether or not the merger is completed, and we may be required to pay LinnCo a termination fee of up to $83.7 million under certain circumstances; and•the merger agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement, and such restrictions prevent us from making certain acquisitions or taking certain other specified actions during the pendency of the merger.There can be no assurance that these risks will not materialize, and if any of them do, they may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and operating cash flows. The merger may cause substantial disruption to our business, cause distraction to our management and employees and present difficulties retaining employees. The merger may cause substantial disruption to our business, cause distraction to our management and employees and present difficulties retaining employees. The merger may also cause uncertainty to our customers. Matters related to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources and distract our management and employees from day-to-day operations. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, uncertainty among our employees may have an adverse effect on our business. This uncertainty may impair our ability to retain or attract personnel until the merger is completed. Employee retention may be particularly challenging, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. The merger agreement restricts our ability to pursue alternatives to the merger. The merger agreement contains provisions that prohibit us from soliciting alternative acquisition proposals or offers for a competing transaction. Further, in certain circumstances, including if the merger agreement is terminated because our board of directors changes its recommendation for the merger, we are required to pay LinnCo a termination fee of up to $83.7 million. This obligation may discourage a third party that has an interest in acquiring all of or a significant part of our business from considering or proposing such acquisition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.