ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain information in this Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements other than statements of historical fact are “forward-looking statements” for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statements of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new services, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance and any statement of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Terms such as “anticipates”, “believes”, “estimates”, “expects”, “plans”, “predicts”, “may”, “should”, “will”, and “intends,” the negative thereof and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are by nature subject to uncertainties and risks, including but not limited to those summarized below: Results of Operations Our Company has historically incurred losses, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce such losses and become profitable in the future. The Company experienced net losses of $13.1 million, $22.2 million and $19.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. The Company incurred operating losses from continuing operations of $13.1 million, $22.2 million and $10.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. While we believe that we will be able to reduce such losses and become profitable in future periods, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. The Company also measures performance based upon an earnings before interest and taxes depreciation amortization (EBITDA). The Company’s EBIDTA for the years ending December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 were $3.8 million loss, $10.2 million loss, and $4.9 million profit respectively. 2005 2004 2003 (Dollars In Thousands) Loss From Continuing Operations $ (13,161 ) $ (22,240 ) $ (10,896 ) Add Back: Interest & Non-Cash Interest 3,448 3,376 3,998 Taxes — 145 300 Depreciation or Amortization 5,905 8,521 11,462 EBITDA $ (3,808 ) $ (10,198 ) $ 4,864 Control by Principal Stockholder We have a single stockholder, World Focus, that owns 79% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock, and who can therefore exercise significant control over the outcome of substantially all matters that require a Board or a stockholder vote. Under the terms of a Stockholders Agreement among Deutsche Bank, Essar and certain Thayer and Questor entities, Deutsche Bank and Essar each have the right to nominate three of the ten Board members, with the remaining four directors consisting of the President and Chief Executive Officer and three independent directors. Any major decision must be approved by at least three-fourths of the directors, which must include at least one Deutsche Bank-designated director and one Essar-designated director. Subsequently, Deutsche Bank and Essar entered into a Put and Call Option Agreement under which, among other things, Deutsche Bank assigned its right to nominate three of the ten directors to Essar. In November of 2005, under the terms of assignment and assumption agreements, Essar assigned its rights under the Stockholders Agreement and Put and Call Option Agreement to World Focus, a company under common control with Essar. As a result, World Focus can exercise significant control over the outcome of substantially all matters that require a Board or stockholder vote. This fact may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. In addition, since our officers serve at the pleasure of the Board, World Focus may be able to exert influence over day-to-day operations. 9 Index to Financial Statements The Stockholders Agreement provides that the parties to the agreement satisfy a “right of first offer” to the others prior to a transfer of shares to a third party. The Stockholders Agreement also provides that the parties provide each other with certain “tag-along” rights in the event of a sale or transfer of shares to a third party. The Stockholders’ Agreement and the Bylaws also provide that certain major decisions will require the affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths of the directors of the Board. The list of major decisions include: • Issuing shares, including any indebtedness convertible into shares, or any other form of equity in Aegis Communications Group, Inc. or any subsidiary of Aegis Communications Group, Inc. other than (a) granting options to directors or employees of Aegis Communications Group, Inc. pursuant to any incentive or other benefit plan adopted by the Board, (b) issuing shares of common stock pursuant to the exercise of such options or any other securities outstanding and (c) issuing shares of common stock or any security, including any debt convertible into shares of common stock, or any other form of equity in Aegis Communications Group, Inc., in one or more offerings; • Adoption of any stock-based employee benefit plan by Aegis Communications Group, Inc.; • Incurring debt or entering into guarantees for borrowed money (excluding trade payables) in excess of $2.5 million in a 12-month period, subject to certain exceptions; • Selling, leasing, pledging or granting a security interest or encumbrance in all or substantially all of Aegis Communications Group, Inc.’s or any subsidiary of Aegis Communications Group, Inc.’s assets, except in connection with the incurrence of indebtedness for borrowed money that does not involve a major decision in excess of $2.5 million as noted above; • Acquiring (whether through an asset purchase, merger, equity purchase or otherwise) any assets (excluding acquisitions of raw materials and supplies in the ordinary course of business) having a value, individually or in the aggregate for any series of related transactions, in excess of $2.0 million; • Selling or otherwise disposing of any assets (excluding sales or other dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business) having a value, individually or in the aggregate for any series of related transactions, in excess of $2.0 million; • Amending the Bylaws or the Certificate of Incorporation of Aegis Communications Group, Inc.; • Any Change of Control Transaction; • Executing or delivering any assignment for the benefit of creditors of Aegis Communications Group, Inc.; • Filing any voluntary petition in bankruptcy or receivership with respect to Aegis Communications Group, Inc.; • Taking any action while there is a vacancy on the Board, including without limitation the filling of such vacancy, except in accordance with the terms of the agreement; and • Changing the size or composition of the Board except in accordance with the agreement. Shares Available for Future Sale Sales of a substantial amount of our Common Stock by World Focus could have an adverse effect on market prices for our Common Stock. World Focus owns approximately 79% of the Company’s issued and outstanding Common Stock. Although World Focus is restricted to some extent from reselling their respective shares of our common stock under applicable securities laws, World Focus possesses registration rights with respect to the shares of capital stock it owns, which can be exercised at any time. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of stock, especially by World Focus, will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the conversion of preferred stock or the exercise of stock options), and even the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 10 Index to Financial Statements Dependence on Key Personnel The loss of one or more of our executive officers and other key executives could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends in large part on the abilities and continued service of our executive officers and other key employees and our ability to hire and retain qualified executive officers and key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain these people. Reliance on Major Clients The loss of one or more of our major clients could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Historically a few major clients have accounted for the bulk of our revenue. In 2005, three separate clients accounted for approximately 15%, 13%, and 10% of our revenues, respectively. Relying on one or a few major clients includes a number of more specific business risks that may adversely impact our ability to derive revenue from the client, including: • The risk that a client unilaterally decides to curtail or terminate marketing programs; • The risk that service or billing disputes may adversely impact the client’s desire to utilize the provider’s services; • The risk that the customer may decide to reduce the number of providers of the subject services or otherwise consolidate its operations; • The risk that a client will merge into, or be acquired by, another company, resulting in a reduction or termination of that client’s demand for our services; • The risk that financial, competitive or operational pressure on the client may inhibit its ability to purchase services from outside providers or prompt the client to negotiate lower fees for services provided; and • The risk of adverse financial impact to us if the client is unable to meet the payment terms of open receivables as billed by Aegis Communications Group, Inc. For example, in the third quarter of 2004, AT&T decided to withdraw their marketing efforts in the consumer long distance market. This adversely impacted us, forcing us to close two centers in California and to cease operations for a period of time in our New York City center which had been specifically leased for additional outbound volume anticipated from AT&T. Other customers may do the same. Many of our clients are concentrated in the telecommunications and financial services industries. A significant downturn in any of these industries or a trend away from their use of telephone-based sales or outsourced customer relationship management services could materially and adversely affect our business. Although we believe our relations with our major clients are good, the loss of one or more of our major clients could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. See “Item 1. Business—Reliance on Major Clients.” Leverage and Future Capital Requirements We may not be able to obtain financing sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs. At December 31, 2005, we had long-term capital leases of approximately $3.7 million and notes payable of $3.2 million (net of discounts). Our tangible net book value was approximately negative $6.7 million at December 31, 2005. Our future capital requirements and the sufficiency of available funds will depend on numerous factors that are difficult to predict, including results of operations, efforts to expand existing operations and capital expenditures. We entered into an agreement for credit financing with Rockland Credit Finance LLC on April 4, 2005. The credit financing agreement has an initial term of one year, and unless terminated, the credit agreement will automatically renew for subsequent one-year periods. By its terms, that credit financing agreement allows us to select, sell and assign certain of our accounts receivable to Rockland from time to time, subject in each case to Rockland’s prior review and acceptance of those selected accounts. The agreement prohibits us from entering into alternative credit financing arrangements without Rockland’s prior written consent, unless Rockland rejects our selection of any particular account for sale and assignment, in which case that rejected account may be sold and assigned or pledged without restriction. 11 Index to Financial Statements Factors Affecting Ability to Manage and Achieve Growth We may not be able to effectively manage expanding operations or maintain or accelerate growth in our business. We anticipate that the trend toward outsourcing of telephone and Internet-based sales, marketing, and customer relationship management activities, as well as increased penetration of new and existing clients and markets, will drive future growth. A number of other factors, including the effective and timely initiation and development of client relationships, the opening of new client service centers, the recruitment, motivation and retention of qualified personnel, our ability to find qualified non-U.S. locations and intensified competition among our telecommunications clients will affect growth. Sustaining growth will also require better and faster systems and additional management, operational and financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage expanding operations effectively or maintain or accelerate growth. Dependence on Outsourcing Trend and Industries Served A decline in the trend of outsourcing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our growth depends in part on continued demand for our services prompted by the outsourcing trend, as well as continued growth in the industries we serve. If the interest in outsourcing declines or there is a significant downturn in the telecommunications, financial services, consumer products, entertainment or other industries, we could be materially and adversely affected. Possible Volatility of Stock Price Our stock price can be volatile, in response to: • Sales or proposed sales by World Focus or other affiliates; • Variations in quarterly operating results; • The depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • Investor perception of Aegis Communications Group, Inc. and the industry in which it competes; • The gain or loss of significant customer contracts; • Changes in management; • Changes in or new services by Aegis Communications Group, Inc. or competitors; • General trends in the industry; • Leverage and future capital requirements; and • Other events or factors. In addition, our stock market generally has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market price for many companies in similar industries and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Since July 9, 1998, the market price per share of our common stock has ranged from $3.50 to $0.01. On March 2, 2006, the closing price for our stock was $0.04 per share. Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results The stability of our revenues and operating income is susceptible of sudden fluctuations, which may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. We could experience quarterly variations in revenues and operating income due to many factors, including: • The commencement or termination of significant CRM programs; 12 Index to Financial Statements • The timing of clients’ marketing campaigns and customer service programs; • The timing of additional SG&A expenses incurred to acquire and support new business; • Changes in our revenue mix among our various service offerings; and • Price competition. In connection with certain contracts, we could incur costs in periods prior to recognizing revenue under those contracts. In addition, we must plan our operating expenditures based on revenue forecasts, and a revenue shortfall below such forecast in any quarter would likely materially and adversely affect our operating results for that quarter. Risks Associated with Our Contracts The revenues we generate from our client contracts are subject to variation, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our contracts generally do not ensure a minimum level of revenue, and the profitability of each client program may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout the various stages of such program. Although we seek to sign long-term contracts with our clients, our contracts generally enable the client to terminate the contract, or terminate or reduce program call volumes, on relatively short notice. Although, certain of such contracts require the client to pay a contractually agreed amount in the event of early termination, others do not, and we cannot be certain that you that we will be able to collect such amount or that such amount, if received, will sufficiently compensate us for our investment in the canceled program or for the revenues we may lose as a result of early termination. Government Regulation We could be adversely affected by new and existing laws and government regulations, or become subject to a regulatory challenge for a violation of federal or state law, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Both federal and state governments regulate our business. The FCC rules under the Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 prohibit telemarketing firms from initiating telephone solicitations to residential telephone subscribers before 8:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m., local time, and prohibit the use of automated telephone dialing equipment to call certain telephone numbers. In addition, the FCC rules require telemarketing firms to maintain a list of residential consumers who have stated that they do not want to receive telephone solicitations called DNC lists and to avoid making calls to such consumers. The Federal Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Protection Act of 1994 broadly authorized the FTC to issue regulations prohibiting misrepresentation in telephone sales. The FTC issued its TSR, which became effective December 31, 1995. Generally, those rules prohibit abusive telephone solicitation practices and impose disclosure and record keeping requirements on telemarketers. Both the FCC and the FTC introduced new amendments to their respective Acts during 2003, which placed further restrictions on the use of automated telephone dialing equipment relative to abandoned calls and require enhanced record keeping. Those amendments also introduced a national do not call list that became effective in 2003 and require all telemarketing firms to suppress consumer records found on the national list. In January 2004, the requirement to deliver a caller identification with name and number became effective. The advent of number portability between landlines and wireless telephone numbers in November 2003 created confusion with reference to the prohibition of telemarketing calls to wireless numbers. No clearinghouse is available to date to provide a suppression list of recently ported numbers, making a good faith effort the only safe harbor available to the telemarketing industry. In addition to these rules and regulations, bills are frequently introduced in Congress to regulate the use of credit information, as well as new proposals to further refine the DNC and TSR regulations and restrict predictive dialer use. We cannot predict whether this legislation will be enacted and what effect, if any, it would have on our industry. 13 Index to Financial Statements Most states have also enacted or are considering legislation to regulate telephone solicitations. For example, telephone sales in certain states are not final until a written contract is delivered to and signed by the buyer, and then the contract may be canceled within three business days. At least one state also prohibits telemarketers from requiring credit cards as a method of payment, and several other states require certain telemarketers to obtain licenses and post bonds. For instance, in certain states persons selling insurance products or mortgage services are required to be licensed by various state insurance commissions and participate in regular continuing education programs. Some industries we serve are also subject to various state government regulations with regard to selling practices and consumer disclosure requirements. We specifically train our representatives to conduct calls in an approved manner and believe we are in compliance in all material respects with all federal and state regulations. There can be no assurance, however, that we may not be subject to regulatory challenge for a violation of federal or state law by any of our clients or other third parties. Dependence on Labor Force High personnel turnover rates and unionization of our employee base could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is very labor intensive and characterized by high personnel turnover. Although by industry standards we believe our employees are highly qualified and well trained, many employees receive modest hourly wages and have relatively short tenure with Aegis Communications Group, Inc. A higher turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and decrease operating efficiencies and productivity. Some of our operations require specially trained employees. Growth in our business will require us to recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified employees. A significant portion of our costs consists of wages paid to hourly workers. An increase in hourly wages, costs of employee benefits or employment taxes could materially adversely affect our operating results. During 2000, the United Steelworkers of America (“USWA”) undertook an effort to organize our call center workforce located in Elkins, West Virginia. We believe that a unionized workforce would be contrary to our best interests, and to our employees’, customers’ and shareholders’ best interests as well, and accordingly, vigorously opposed the unionization effort. Although the USWA ultimately withdrew its election petition in Elkins, there can be no assurances that the USWA or another union will not endeavor to organize our workforce in Elkins or other call center locations. Unionization of our workforce could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Competition We may be unable to effectively compete in our industry, which could threaten the demand for our services. Our industry is very competitive. We cannot assure you that, as the CRM industry continues to evolve, additional competitors with greater resources than ours will not enter the industry or that our clients will not choose to conduct more of their telephone-based sales or customer relationship management activities internally. Further, the impact of non-U.S. companies entering our industry with lower operating costs, the development of new forms of direct sales and marketing techniques such as interactive home shopping through television, computer networks, including the Internet and other media, could adversely affect the demand for our services. In addition, the increased use of new telephone-based technologies, such as interactive voice response systems, and increased use of the Internet as a tool by our clients could reduce the demand for certain of our offered services. Moreover, the effectiveness of marketing by telephone could also decrease as a result of consumer saturation and increased consumer resistance to this direct marketing tool. Although we attempt to monitor industry trends and respond accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate and successfully respond to such trends in a timely manner. See “Item 1. Business—Industry and Competition.” 14 Index to Financial Statements Reliance on Technology and Computer Systems We may be unable to effectively manage our technology resources, which could affect the demand for our services. We rely on specialized telecommunications and computer technology to meet our clients’ needs. We will need to continue to select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology to remain competitive. Our future success will also depend on our operational and financial ability to develop information technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands. Our business is highly dependent on our computer and telephone equipment and software systems, the temporary or permanent loss of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Telephone Service Dependence A temporary or permanent loss of local or long distance telephone service could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on service provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. If service is disrupted or telecommunications costs increase significantly and we cannot recover those costs by increasing the price of our services, our operating results will suffer. Risk of Business Interruption Our business will suffer if we are unable to protect our client service centers, computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications interruption or failure, technology failure or sabotage, natural disaster and other similar events. We may incur contractual damages to some clients or allow some clients to terminate or renegotiate their contracts with us if one of these events occurs. We maintain property damage and business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately compensate us for any losses we may incur. Other Uncertainties We discuss other operating, financial or legal risks or uncertainties in this Form 10-K in specific contexts and in our other filings with the SEC. We are also subject to general economic risks, the risk of loss of a major customer and other risks and uncertainties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 15 Index to Financial Statements 