Item 1A. Risk Factors Other Factors Affecting the Company's Business and Financial Results Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and reserve calculations depend substantially on reasonable prices for oil and gas. These prices also affect the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures, working capital and payments on our debt and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (see Note 6 to the financial statements) is subject to periodic asset redeterminations based in part on changing expectations of future crude oil and natural gas prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. Among the factors that can cause fluctuations are: · domestic and foreign supply, and perceptions of supply, of oil and natural gas; · level of consumer demand; · political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; · weather conditions; · world-wide economic conditions; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations; and · price and availability of alternative fuels We have multiple hedges placed on our oil and gas production. See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Our heavy crude in California is less economic than lighter crude oil and natural gas. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 66% of our proved reserves, or 99 million barrels, consisted of heavy oil. Light crude oil represented 9% and natural gas represented 25% of our oil and gas reserves. Heavy crude oil sells for a discount to light crude oil, as more complex refining equipment is required to convert heavy oil into high value products. We currently sell our heavy crude oil in California under a long-term contract for approximately $8.15 below WTI NYMEX, the U.S. benchmark crude oil, pricing. Additionally, most of our crude oil in California is produced using the enhanced oil recovery process of steam injection. This process is more costly than primary and secondary recovery methods. In November 2005, we entered into a new crude oil sales contract for our California production for deliveries beginning February 1, 2006 and ending January 31, 2010. The per barrel price, calculated on a monthly basis and blended across the various producing locations, is the higher of 1) the WTI NYMEX crude oil price less a fixed differential approximating $8.15, or 2) heavy oil field postings plus a premium of approximately $1.35. A widening of commodity differentials may adversely impact our revenues and per barrel economics. Both our produced crude oil and natural gas are subject to pricing in the local markets where the production occurs. It is customary that such products are priced based on local or regional supply and demand factors. California heavy crude oil sells at a discount to WTI, primarily due to the additional cost to refine gasoline or light product out of a barrel of heavy crude. In addition, our Utah light crude contracts are currently priced at approximately $13 to $20 per barrel below WTI with certain volumes tied to field posting, and in some cases our realized price is further reduced by transportation charges. Natural gas field prices are normally priced off of Henry Hub NYMEX price, the benchmark for U.S. natural gas. While we attempt to contract for the best possible price in each of our producing locations, there is no assurance that past price differentials will continue into the future. Numerous factors may influence local pricing, such as refinery capacity, particularly for paraffinic crude, pipeline capacity and specifications, upsets in the mid-stream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions and governmental regulations. We may be adversely impacted by a widening differential on the products we sell. Our oil and natural gas hedges are based on WTI or natural gas index prices, so we may be subject to basis risk if the differential on the products we sell widens from those benchmarks if we do not have a contract tied to those benchmarks. Additionally, insufficient pipeline capacity and the lack of demand in any given operating area may cause the differential to widen in that area compared to other oil and gas producing areas. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to crude oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, processing facilities and refineries owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because of 15 inadequacy or unavailability of natural gas pipelines, gathering system capacity, processing facilities or refineries. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver the production to market. See firm transportation summary schedule at Item 1 Business. Factors that can cause price volatility for crude oil and natural gas include: · availability and capacity of refineries; · availability of gathering systems with sufficient capacity to handle local production; · seasonal fluctuations in local demand for production; · local and national gas storage capacity; · interstate pipeline capacity; and · availability and cost of gas transportation facilities. Utah - As of December 31, 2006, our Utah light crude oil is sold under multiple contracts with different purchasers for varying pricing terms and ranging from one month to nine months. As of December 31, 2006 we had firm contracts for 4,250 barrels per day (Bbl/D). These contracts are currently priced at approximately $13 to $20 per barrel below WTI with certain volumes tied to field posting, and in some cases our realized price is further reduced by transportation charges. As operator we deliver all produced volumes pursuant to these contracts, although our working interest partners or royalty owners may take their respective volumes in kind and market their own volumes. Our net volumes from our Brundage Canyon properties approximate 80% of the total gross volumes. Assuming all the Brundage Canyon wells are producing, the gross production could exceed these contracted volumes. We experienced increasing difficulty in locating additional buyers of our crude oil production from this region in 2006. Our Utah crude oil is a paraffinic crude, locally known as a black wax crude, and can be processed efficiently by only a limited number of refineries. Increased production of crude oil in the region, the ability of refiners to process other higher sulfur crudes as a result of capital upgrades, as well as the increasing availability of Canadian crude oil, is putting downward pressure on the sales price of our crude oil. On February 27, 2007, we entered into a multi-staged crude oil sales contract with a subsidiary of Holly Corporation (Holly) for our Uinta basin crude oil. Under the agreement, Holly will begin purchasing 3,200 Bbl/D beginning July 1, 2007. Upon completion of their Woods Cross refinery expansion in Salt Lake City, which is expected in mid 2008, Holly will increase their total purchased volumes to 5,000 Bbl/D through June 30, 2013. Pricing under the contract, which includes transportation, is a fixed percentage of WTI and approximates our expected field posted price of $13 to $16 below WTI. From October 1, 2003 through April 30, 2006 we were able to sell our Utah crude oil at approximately $2.00 per barrel below WTI and from May 1, 2006 through September 30, 2006, we were selling the majority of our Utah crude at approximately $9.00 per barrel below WTI. Due to this lower pricing, and based on sales of 3,500 Bbl/D, our revenues were lower by approximately $9.2 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. If this pricing continues throughout 2007, with our Holly contract in place and on the same volumes, we estimate our revenues will be lower by approximately $8.6 million versus our 2006 revenues. We may adjust our capital expenditures in the Uinta basin due to various factors, including the timing of refinery demand for the Uinta barrels and the actual or expected change in our realized price. We may be subject to the risk of adding additional steam generation equipment if the electrical market deteriorates significantly. We are dependent on several cogeneration facilities that, combined, provide approximately 40% of our steam requirement. These facilities are dependent on reasonable power contracts for the sale of electricity. If, for any reason, including if utilities that purchase electricity from us are no longer required by regulation to enter into power contracts with us, we were unable to enter into new or replacement contracts or were to lose any existing contract, we may not be able to supply 100% of the steam requirements necessary to maximize production from our heavy oil assets. An additional investment in various steam sources may be necessary to replace such steam, and there may be risks and delays in being able to install conventional steam equipment due to permitting requirements. The financial cost and timing of such new investment may adversely affect our production, capital outlays and cash provided by operating activities. We have power contracts covering our electricity generation which contracts expire in 2009. The future of the electricity market in California is uncertain. We utilize cogeneration plants in California to generate lower cost steam compared to conventional steam generation methods. Electricity produced by our cogeneration plants is sold to utilities and the steam costs are allocated to our oil and gas operations. While we have electricity sales contracts in place with the utilities that are currently scheduled to terminate in 2009, legal and regulatory decisions, (especially related to the pricing of electricity under the contracts), can adversely affect the economics of our cogeneration facilities and thereby, the cost of steam for use in our oil and gas operations. A shortage of natural gas in California could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to the risks associated with a shortage of natural gas and/or the transportation of natural gas into and within California. We are highly dependent on sufficient volumes of natural gas necessary to use for fuel in generating steam in our heavy oil operations in California. If the required volume of natural gas for use in our operations were to be unavailable or too highly priced to produce heavy oil economically, our production could be adversely impacted. We have firm transportation to move 12,000 MMBtu/D on the Kern River Pipeline from the Rocky Mountains to Kern County, CA, which accounts for approximately one-third of our current requirement. 16 Our use of oil and gas price and interest rate hedging contracts involves credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases or reduced expenses from lower interest rates, as well as result in significant fluctuations in net income and shareholders' equity. We use hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production with the objective of achieving a more predictable cash flow, and to reduce our exposure to a significant decline in the price of crude oil and natural gas. We also utilize interest rate hedges to fix the rate on a portion of our variable rate indebtedness, as only a portion of our total indebtedness has a fixed rate and we are therefore exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. While the use of hedging transactions limits the downside risk of price declines or rising interest rates, as applicable, their use may also limit future revenues from price increases or reduced expenses from lower interest rates, as applicable. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that the counterparty may be unable to satisfy its obligations. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves. To maintain production levels, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those depleted by production. Without successful exploration, exploitation or acquisition activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline. We may not be able to find, develop or to acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost. In addition, substantial capital is required to replace and grow reserves. If lower oil and gas prices or operating difficulties result in our cash flow from operations being less than expected or limit our ability to borrow under credit arrangements, we may be unable to expend the capital necessary to locate and to develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and future cash flows from those reserves , future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from estimates. Estimating accumulations of oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds, some of which are mandated by the SEC. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: · quality and quantity of available data; · interpretation of that data; and · accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of development and exploration and prevailing oil and gas prices. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. If oil or gas prices decrease or if our exploration and development activities are unsuccessful, we may be required to take writedowns. We may be required to writedown the carrying value of our oil and gas properties when oil or gas prices are low, including the impact of basis differentials, or if there are substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in estimates of development and/or operating costs or deterioration in exploration or production results. We capitalize costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and gas properties under the successful efforts accounting method. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed fair value, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. We review the carrying value of our properties annually and at any time when events or circumstances indicate a review is necessary, based on prices in effect as of the end of the reporting period. The carrying value of oil and gas properties is computed on a field-by-field basis. Once incurred, a writedown of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if oil or gas prices increase. See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for our hedge position on February 9, 2007. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and of proved undeveloped acreage. Major and independent oil and gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and gas properties, as well as for the equipment, supplies, labor and services required to operate and develop their properties. Some of these resources may be limited and have higher prices due to current strong demand. Many of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater, which may adversely affect our ability to compete within the industry. 17 Drilling is a high-risk activity. Our future success will partly depend on the success of our drilling program. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail below, these drilling activities involve the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered. In addition, we are often uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells. Furthermore, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: · obtaining government and tribal required permits; · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · compliance with governmental or landowner requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment and/or services, including experienced labor. The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses; insurance may not protect us against all of these risks. These risks include: · fires; · explosions; · blow-outs; · uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, formation water or drilling fluids; · natural disasters; · pipe or cement failures; · casing collapses; · embedded oilfield drilling and service tools; · abnormally pressured formations; · major equipment failures, including cogeneration facilities; and · environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of: · injury or loss of life; · severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution and other environmental damage; · investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; · regulatory investigation and penalties; · suspension of operations; and · repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect us. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. For instance, we do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we intend to obtain and maintain insurance coverage we deem appropriate for these risks, there can be no assurance that our operations will not expose us to liabilities exceeding such insurance coverage or to liabilities not covered by insurance. We are subject to complex federal, state, regional, local and other laws and regulations that could give rise to substantial liabilities from environmental contamination or otherwise adversely affect our cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. All facets of our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state, regional and local levels. In addition, a portion of our leases in the Uinta basin are, and some of our future leases may be, regulated by Native American tribes. Environmental laws and regulations impose limitations on our discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for our management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose on us obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. We also must satisfy, in some cases, federal and state requirements for providing environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before we commence exploration and production activities. Environmental and other requirements applicable to our operations generally have become more stringent in recent years, and compliance with those requirements more expensive. Frequently changing environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased our costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells and other facilities, and may impose substantial liabilities if we fail to comply with such regulations or for any contamination resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in the suspension or termination of our operations and 18 subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Furthermore, our business, results from operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by any failure to comply with, or future changes to, these laws and regulations. In addition, we could also be liable for the investigation or remediation of contamination, as well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination such as claims for personal injury or property damage. Such liabilities may arise at many locations, including properties in which we have an ownership interest but no operational control, properties we formerly owned or operated and sites where our wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties that we currently own or operate, and may arise even where the contamination does not result from any noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. We have incurred expenses and penalties in connection with remediation of contamination in the past, and we may do so in the future. From time to time we have experienced accidental spills, leaks and other discharges of contaminants at some of our properties, as have other similarly situated oil and gas companies. Some of the properties that we have acquired, or in which we may hold an interest but not operational control, may have past or ongoing contamination for which we may be held responsible. Some of our operations are in environmentally sensitive areas, including coastal areas, wetlands, areas that may provide habitat for endangered or threatened species, and other protected areas, and our operations in such areas must satisfy additional regulatory requirements. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed certain drilling projects and/or access to prospective lands and have filed litigation to attempt to stop such projects, including decisions by the Bureau of Land Management regarding several leases in Utah that we have been awarded. Our activities are also subject to the regulation by oil and natural gas-producing states and one Native American tribe of conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of oil and natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from federal, state, local and Native American tribal authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions that are more expensive than we have anticipated could have a negative effect on our ability to explore on or develop our properties. Additionally, the oil and natural gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Recent and future environmental regulations, including additional state and federal restrictions on greenhouse gasses that may be passed in response to climate change concerns, could increase our costs to operate and produce our properties and also reduce the demand for the oil and gas we produce. On September 27, 2006, California’s governor signed into law Assembly Bill (AB) 32, which establishes a statewide cap on greenhouse gases (GHG) for 2020 based on 1990 emission levels. The California Air Resources Board (CARB) has been designated as the lead agency to establish and adopt regulations to implement AB 32 (GHG Regulations) by January 1, 2012. We will continue to monitor the establishment of GHG Regulations through industry trade groups and other organizations in which we are a member. While California’s GHG Regulations apply only to operations within California, similar regulations may be adopted in other states in which we conduct business or on a Federal level in the future. Furthermore, we benefit from federal energy laws and regulations that relieve our cogeneration plants, all of which are QFs, from compliance with extensive federal and state regulations that control the financial structure of electricity generating plants, as well as the prices and terms on which electricity may be sold by those plants. These federal energy regulations also require that electric utilities purchase electricity generated by our cogeneration plants at a price based on the purchasing utility's avoided cost, and that the utility sell back-up power to us on a non-discriminatory basis. The term "avoided cost" is defined as the incremental cost to an electric utility of electric energy or capacity, or both, which, but for the purchase from QFs, such utility would generate for itself or purchase from another source. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 amends PURPA to allow a utility to petition FERC to be relieved of its obligation to enter into any new contracts with QFs if the FERC determines that a competitive wholesale electricity market is available to QFs in its service territory. Such a determination has not been made for our service areas in California. This amendment does not affect any of our current SO contracts. FERC issued an order on October 20, 2006 implementing this amendment to PURPA and on December 20, 2006 issued a subsequent order granting limited rehearing of the October 20, 2006 order. FERC regulations also permit QFs and utilities to negotiate agreements for utility purchases of power at rates lower than the utilities' avoided costs. Property acquisitions are a component of our growth strategy, and our failure to complete future acquisitions successfully could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. Our business strategy has emphasized growth through strategic acquisitions, but we may not be able to continue to identify properties for acquisition or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our strategy of completing acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. If we are unable to achieve strategic acquisitions, our growth may be impaired, thus impacting earnings, cash from operations and reserves. 19 Acquisitions are subject to the uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in part to acquisitions of producing properties with additional development potential and properties with minimal production at acquisition but significant growth potential, and we expect acquisitions will continue to contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, production taxes and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties, which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties, and we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. Our review prior to signing a definitive purchase agreement may be even more limited. We generally are not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, on acquisitions. Often, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. If material breaches are discovered by us prior to closing, we could require adjustments to the purchase price or if the claims are significant, we or the seller may have a right to terminate the agreement. We could also fail to discover breaches or defects prior to closing and incur significant unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, or experience losses due to title defects, for which we would have limited or no contractual remedies or insurance coverage. There are risks in acquiring producing properties, including difficulties in integrating acquired properties into our business, additional liabilities and expenses associated with acquired properties, diversion of management attention, and costs of increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Increasing our reserve base through acquisitions is an important part of our business strategy. Our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing business, or the expense incurred in consummating future acquisitions, could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, we may have to assume cleanup or reclamation obligations or other unanticipated liabilities in connection with these acquisitions. The scope and cost of these obligations may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. In connection with future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. We depend to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of our executive management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of these or other key personnel could adversely affect our business, and we do not maintain key man insurance on the lives of any of these persons. Our drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers, landmen and other professionals. Competition for many of these professionals is intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. We have limited control over the activities on properties that we do not operate. Although we operate most of the properties in which we have an interest, other companies operate some of the properties. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of these nonoperated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund their operation. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns or lead to unexpected future costs. We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule. Our final determination of whether to drill any scheduled or budgeted wells will depend on a number of factors, including: · results of our exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of our seismic data, if any; · availability of sufficient capital resources to us and any other participants for the drilling of the prospects; · approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled; · economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability and prices of drilling rigs and crews; and · availability of leases, license options, farm-outs, other rights to explore and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame, or at all. In addition, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties and rig availability and access to our drilling locations utilizing available roads. As of December 31, 2006, we own three 20 drilling rigs, one of which is drilling on our property, and have additional one-year contract commitments on another three drilling rigs. See contractual obligations in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies. We acquire from third parties or directly from the mineral fee owners working and revenue interests in the oil and natural gas leaseholds and estates upon which we will perform our exploration activities. The existence of a material title deficiency can reduce the value or render a property worthless thus adversely affecting the results of our operations and financial condition. Title insurance covering mineral leaseholds is not always available and when available is not always obtained. As is customary in our industry, we rely upon the judgment of staff and independent landmen who perform the field work of examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest and/or undertake drilling activities. We, in some cases, perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title to us. In cases involving title problems, the amount paid for affected oil and natural gas leases or estates can be generally lost, and a prospect can become undrillable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 