Item 1A. Risk Factors Other Factors Affecting the Company's Business and Financial Results Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and reserve calculations depend substantially on reasonable prices for oil and gas. These prices also affect the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow under our credit facility is subject to periodic asset redeterminations based in part on changing expectations of future crude oil and natural gas prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. Among the factors that can cause fluctuations are: · domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; · price and availability of alternative fuels; · weather conditions; · level of consumer demand; · price of foreign imports; · world-wide economic conditions; · political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and · domestic and foreign governmental regulations. The Company has crude oil hedges on 10,000 Bbl/D for 4 years beginning in 2006. We have an oil collar in place based on WTI pricing with a $47.50 floor and a $70 ceiling. Our heavy crude in California is less economic than lighter crude oil and natural gas. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 74% of our proved reserves or 93 million barrels, consisted of heavy oil, light crude oil represented 8% and natural gas represented 18% of our oil and gas reserves. Our objective is to diversify our predominantly heavy crude oil base with light crude oil and natural gas. In November 2005, the Company entered into a new crude oil sales contract for its California production for deliveries beginning February 1, 2006 and ending January 31, 2010. The per barrel price, calculated on a monthly basis and blended across the various producing locations, is the higher of 1) the WTI NYMEX crude oil price less a fixed differential approximating $8.15, or 2) heavy oil field postings plus a premium of approximately $1.35. A widening of commodity differentials may adversely impact our revenues and per barrel economics. Both our produced crude oil and natural gas are subject to pricing in the local markets where the production occurs. It is customary that such products are priced based on local or regional supply and demand factors. California heavy crude sells at a discount to WTI, the U.S. benchmark crude oil, primarily due to the additional cost to refine gasoline or light product out of a barrel of heavy crude. Our Utah light crude also is currently priced at $2.00 below WTI. Natural gas field prices are normally priced off of Henry Hub NYMEX price, the benchmark for U.S. natural gas. While we attempt to contract for the best possible price in each of our producing locations, there is no assurance that past price differentials will continue into the future. Numerous factors may influence local pricing, such as refinery capacity, particularly for black wax crude, pipeline capacity and specifications, upsets in the mid-stream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions, governmental regulations, etc. We may be adversely impacted by a widening differential on the products sold. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to crude oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, processing facilities and refineries owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of natural gas pipeline, gathering system capacity, processing facilities or refineries. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver the production to market. See firm transportation summary schedule at Item 1 Business. 16 Berry Petroleum Company - Dec. 31, 2005 Form 10-K Table of Contents Factors that can cause price volatility for crude oil and natural gas include: · availability and capacity of refineries; · availability of gathering systems with sufficient capacity to handle local production; · seasonal fluctuations in local demand for production; · local and national gas storage capacity; · interstate pipeline capacity; and · availability and cost of gas transportation facilities. Brundage Canyon crude oil production, which is approximately 40 degree API gravity, is sold under contract at WTI less a fixed differential approximating $2.00 per barrel. This contract expires on September 30, 2006. Any new contract will be negotiated based on market prices. We believe the differential has widened by several dollars per barrel. The majority of this crude oil, while light, is a “paraffinic” crude, and can be processed efficiently by only a limited number of stranded inland refineries. The production of this type crude is increasing regionally and beginning to strain the capacity of these refineries. Other new crude sources from the region are pressuring pricing. If these refineries limit the volumes of this parraffinic crude oil they are willing to process, it could impact the marketability of this type of crude which, for Berry, represents approximately 3,500 Bbl/D of production or approximately 15% of total current production. We are investigating the market opportunities for this crude oil. If market prices continue to deteriorate, we may allocate capital expenditures to projects which produce natural gas and crude oils with lower paraffinic content until the refinery constraint is resolved. We may be subject to the risk of adding additional steam generation equipment if the electrical market deteriorates significantly. We may be subject to the risk of adding additional steam generation equipment if the electrical market deteriorates significantly. We are dependent on several cogeneration facilities that provide over half of our steam requirement. These facilities are dependent on reasonable electrical contracts. If, for any reason, we were unable to enter into an electrical contract or were to lose an existing contract, we may not be able to supply 100% of the steam requirements necessary to maximize production from our heavy oil assets. An additional investment in various steam sources may be necessary to replace such steam, and there may be risks and delays in being able to install conventional steam equipment due to permitting requirements. The financial cost and timing of such investment may adversely affect our production, capital outlays and cash provided by operating activities. We have electricity contracts covering most of our electricity generation which contracts expire in 2009. A shortage of natural gas in California could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to the risks associated with a shortage of natural gas and/or the transportation of natural gas into and within California. We are highly dependent on sufficient volumes of natural gas that we use for fuel in generating steam in our heavy oil operations in California. If the required volume of natural gas for use in our operations were to be unavailable or too highly priced to produce heavy oil economically, our production could be adversely impacted. The Company has firm transportation to move 12,000 MMBtu/D on the Kern River Pipeline from the Rocky Mountains to Kern County, CA. This volume is approximately one-third of the Company’s current requirement. Our use of oil and gas price hedging contracts involves credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases and result in significant fluctuations in net income. We use hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production to achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to a significant decline in the price of crude oil. While the use of hedging transactions limits the downside risk of price declines, their use may also limit future revenues from price increases. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that the counterparty may be unable to satisfy its obligations. The Company utilizes several counterparties for its hedging contracts. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves. To maintain production levels, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those depleted by production. Without successful exploration, exploitation or acquisition activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline. We may not be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost. In addition, substantial capital is required to replace and grow reserves. If lower oil and gas prices or operating difficulties result in our cash flow from operations being less than expected or limit our ability to borrow under credit arrangements, we may be unable to expend the capital necessary to locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and future cash flows from those reserves , future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from estimates. Estimating accumulations of oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds, some of which are mandated by the SEC. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: · quality and quantity of available data; · interpretation of that data; and · accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions. 17 Berry Petroleum Company - Dec. 31, 2005 Form 10-K Table of Contents Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of development and exploration and prevailing oil and gas prices. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. If oil or gas prices decrease, we may be required to take writedowns. We may be required to writedown the carrying value of our oil and gas properties when oil or gas prices are low, including basis differentials, or there are substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in estimates of development costs or deterioration in exploration or production results. We capitalize costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and gas properties under the successful efforts accounting method. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed fair value, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. We review the carrying value of our properties annually and at any time when events or circumstances indicate a review is necessary, based on prices in effect as of the end of the reporting period. The carrying value of oil and gas properties is computed on a field-by-field basis. Once incurred, a writedown of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if oil or gas prices increase. See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for the Company’s hedge position on February 10, 2006. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and proved undeveloped acreage. Major and independent oil and gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and gas properties, as well as for the equipment and labor required to operate and develop their properties. Many of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater, which may adversely affect our ability to compete within the industry. Drilling is a high-risk activity. Our future success will partly depend on the success of our drilling program. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail below, these drilling activities involve the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered. In addition, we are often uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells. Furthermore, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: · obtaining government and tribal required permits; · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · compliance with governmental or landowner requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment and/or services. The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses; insurance may not protect us against all of these risks. These risks include: · fires; · explosions; · blow-outs; · uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, formation water or drilling fluids; · natural disasters; · pipe or cement failures; · casing collapses; · embedded oilfield drilling and service tools; · abnormally pressured formations; · major equipment failures, including cogeneration facilities; and · environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of: · injury or loss of life; · severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution and other environmental damage; · investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; · regulatory investigation and penalties; · suspension of operations; and · repairs to resume operations. 18 Berry Petroleum Company - Dec. 31, 2005 Form 10-K Table of Contents If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect us. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if our Management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we intend to obtain and maintain appropriate insurance coverage for these risks, there can be no assurance that our operations will not expose us to liabilities exceeding such insurance coverage or to liabilities not covered by insurance. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our development, exploration, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. In addition, a portion of our leases in the Uinta Basin are, and some of our future leases may be, regulated by Native American tribes. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations oppose certain drilling projects and/or access to prospective lands. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, federal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulation by oil and natural gas-producing states and one Native American tribe of conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of oil and natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state, local and Native American tribal authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a negative effect on our ability to explore on or develop its properties. Additionally, the oil and natural gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Property acquisitions are a component of our growth strategy, and our failure to complete future acquisitions successfully could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. Our business strategy has emphasized growth through strategic acquisitions, but we may not be able to continue to identify properties for acquisition or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our strategy of completing acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. If we are unable to achieve strategic acquisitions, our growth may be impaired, thus impacting earnings, cash from operations and reserves. Acquisitions are subject to the uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in part to acquisitions of producing properties, and we expect acquisitions will continue to contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, production taxes and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties, which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties, and we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. Our review prior to signing a definitive purchase agreement may be even more limited. We generally are not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, on acquisitions. Often, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. If material breaches are discovered by us prior to closing, we could require adjustments to the purchase price or if the claims are significant, we or the seller may have a right to terminate the agreement. We could also fail to discover breaches or defects prior to closing and incur significant unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, or experience losses due to title defects, for which we would have limited or no contractual remedies or insurance coverage. 19 Berry Petroleum Company - Dec. 31, 2005 Form 10-K Table of Contents There are risks in acquiring producing properties, including difficulties in integrating acquired properties into our business, additional liabilities and expenses associated with acquired properties, diversion of Management attention, and costs of increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Increasing our reserve base through acquisitions is an important part of our business strategy. Our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing business, or the expense incurred in consummating future acquisitions, could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, we may have to assume cleanup or reclamation obligations or other unanticipated liabilities in connection with these acquisitions. The scope and cost of these obligations may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. In connection with future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant Management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. We depend to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of our executive Management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of these or other key personnel could adversely affect our business, and we do not maintain key man insurance on the lives of any of these persons. Our drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers, landmen and other professionals. Competition for many of these professionals is intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. We have limited control over the activities on properties that we do not operate. Although we operate most of the properties in which we have an interest, other companies operate some of the properties. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of these nonoperated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund their operation. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns or lead to unexpected future costs. We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule. Our final determination of whether to drill any scheduled or budgeted wells will depend on a number of factors, including: · results of our exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of our seismic data, if any; · availability of sufficient capital resources to us and any other participants for the drilling of the prospects; · approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled; · economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability and prices of drilling rigs and crews; and · availability of leases, license options, farm-outs, other rights to explore and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame, or at all. In addition, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties and rig availability and access to our drilling locations utilizing available roads. As of December 31, 2005, the Company owns two drilling rigs and has additional one-year contract commitments on another two drilling rigs. See Note 10 to the financial statements. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies. We purchase working and revenue interests in the oil and natural gas leasehold interests upon which we will perform our exploration activities from third parties or directly from the mineral fee owners. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Title insurance covering mineral leaseholds is not generally available and, often, we forego the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest to be placed under lease or already placed under lease until the drilling block is assembled and ready to be drilled. As is customary in our industry, we rely upon the judgment of oil and natural gas lease brokers or independent landmen who perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest. We, in some cases, perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title to us. The work might include obtaining affidavits of heirship or causing an estate to be administered. In cases involving more serious title problems, the amount paid for affected oil and natural gas leases can be generally lost, and the target area can become undrillable. 20 Berry Petroleum Company - Dec. 31, 2005 Form 10-K Table of Contents The future of the electricity market in California is uncertain. We utilize cogeneration plants in California to generate lower cost steam compared to conventional steam generation methods. Electricity produced by our cogeneration plants is sold to utilities and the steam costs are allocated to our oil and gas operations. While we have electricity sales contracts in place with the utilities that are currently scheduled to terminate in 2009, legal and regulatory decisions, especially related to the pricing of electricity under the contracts, can adversely affect the economics of our cogeneration facilities and thereby, the cost of steam for use in our oil and gas operations. Estimates may differ from actual. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Certain accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties to such an extent that there is reasonable likelihood that materially different amounts could have been reported under different conditions, or if different assumptions had been used. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in preparation of its financial statements. Significant estimates with regard to these financial statements include the estimate of proved oil and gas reserve quantities, the related present value of estimated future net cash flows therefrom, the costs to develop and abandon oil and gas properties, the valuation of derivative positions and stock-based compensation valuation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 