Item 1A. Risk Factors - ContinuedThe level and terms of LINN Energy’s indebtedness and its credit ratings could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The level and terms of LINN Energy’s indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds and could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If LINN Energy were to default under its debt obligations, its creditors could attempt to assert claims against our assets during the litigation of their claims against LINN Energy and an event of default under LINN Energy’s credit facility constitutes an event of default under our Credit Facility. The defense of any such claims could be costly and could materially impact our financial condition, even absent any adverse determination. If these claims were successful, our ability to meet our obligations to our creditors and finance our operations could be materially and adversely affected. If one or more credit rating agencies were to downgrade LINN Energy’s credit rating, we could experience an increase in our borrowing costs. Such a development could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and to meet our financial obligations.A downgrade in our credit rating could materially and adversely impact our cost of and ability to access capital.Our and LINN Energy’s access to credit and capital markets also depends on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix and commodity pricing levels. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access capital or financial markets in the future, increase our borrowing costs and potentially require us to post letters of credit for certain obligations.Our and LINN Energy’s ability to access the capital and credit markets to raise capital and borrow on favorable terms will be affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets, which could adversely affect our operations, and our ability to finance our debt may be reduced.Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, in particular with respect to companies in the energy sector, could limit our ability to access these markets or may significantly increase our cost to borrow. Recent developments in commodity prices, among other things, may cause our lenders to increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt at maturity on favorable terms or at all and may reduce or cease to provide funding to borrowers. If we are unable to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, our ability to finance our debt may be reduced.Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.Borrowings under our Credit Facility bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase and we are unable to effectively hedge our interest rate risk, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone