Item 1A. Risk Factors Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Financial Results Oil and natural gas prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flow. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and reserve calculations depend substantially on the price received for our oil and natural gas production. These prices also affect the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures, working capital, payments on our various debt instruments, dividends paid on our capital stock and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. The oil and natural gas markets fluctuate widely, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and 15 Table of Contents demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: •regional, domestic and foreign supply and perceptions of supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; •level of consumer demand; •weather conditions; •overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; •technological advances affecting energy consumption and supply; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; •the impact of energy conservation efforts; •the capacity, cost and availability of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and •the price and availability of alternative fuels. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, declines in commodity prices will: •reduce the amount of cash flow available to make capital expenditures or make acquisitions; •reduce the number of our drilling locations; •increase the likelihood of refinery defaults; •negatively impact the value of our reserves, because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; and •limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Our heavy crude oil in California may be less economic than lighter crude oil. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 43% of our proved reserves, or 117.3 million barrels, consisted of heavy oil, and light crude oil represented 18% of our proved reserves. Heavy crude oil historically sells for a discount to light crude oil, as more complex refining equipment is required to convert heavy oil into high value products. Additionally, most of our crude oil in California is produced using steam injection. This process is generally more costly than primary and secondary recovery methods. Purchasers of our crude oil and natural gas may become insolvent. We have significant concentrations of credit risk with the purchasers of our crude oil and natural gas. For example, all of our crude oil in Utah is sold under a long-term contract to a single refiner. Under the standard credit terms with our refiners, we may not know that a refiner will be unable to make payment to us until 50 days of our production has been delivered to them. If our purchasers become insolvent, we may not be able to collect any of the amounts owed to us. Due to the possibility of refinery constraints in the Utah region, it is possible that the loss of our crude oil sales customer in Utah could impact the marketability of a portion of our Utah crude oil volumes. Our financial counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations. We rely on financial institutions to fund their obligations under our Credit Agreement and make payments to us under our hedging agreements. If one or more of our financial counterparties becomes insolvent, they may not be able to meet their commitment to fund future borrowings under our credit facility which would reduce our liquidity. Additionally, at current commodity prices, a portion of our cash flow over the next three 16 Table of Contents years will come from payments from our counterparties on our commodity hedging contracts. If our counterparties are not able to make these payments, our cash flow will be reduced. Recently adopted financial reform legislation may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. A widening of commodity differentials may adversely impact our revenues and our economics. Our crude oil and natural gas are priced in the local markets where the production occurs based on local or regional supply and demand factors. The prices that we receive for our crude oil and natural gas production are generally lower than the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX or Brent, that are used for calculating commodity derivative positions. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we receive is called a differential. We may not be able to accurately predict crude oil and natural gas differentials. Price differentials may widen in the future. Numerous factors may influence local pricing, such as refinery capacity, pipeline takeaway capacity and specifications, localized storage capacity, upsets in the mid-stream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions and governmental regulations. We may be adversely impacted by a widening differential on the products we sell. Our oil and natural gas hedges are generally based on West Texas intermediate (WTI) or natural gas index prices, so we may be subject to basis risk if the differential on the products we sell widens from those benchmarks and we do not have a contract tied to those benchmarks. Additionally, regional capacity and storage issues may cause benchmark prices to become disconnected from other sources of global crude oil and natural gas which may adversely affect the effectiveness of our hedges that are based on such indices. Insufficient pipeline capacity, storage capacity or trucking capability and the lack of demand in any given operating area may cause the differential to widen in that area compared to other oil and natural gas producing areas. Increases in the differential between benchmark prices for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation, and operating cash flows. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to crude oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, processing facilities, trucking capability and refineries owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of oil and natural gas pipelines, gathering system capacity, processing facilities or refineries. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver the production to market. We may not be able to deliver minimum crude oil volumes required by our sales contract. Production volumes from our Uinta properties over the next several years are uncertain and there is no assurance that we will be able to consistently meet the minimum required volume under our refining contract relating to our production from these properties. During the term of the contract, the minimum number of delivered barrels is 5,000 BOE/D. In the event that we cannot produce the necessary volume, we may need to purchase crude to meet our contract requirements. Gross oil production from our Uinta properties averaged approximately 3,300 BOE/D during 2010. We may be subject to the risk of adding additional steam generation equipment if the electrical market deteriorates significantly. We are dependent on several cogeneration facilities that, combined, provide approximately 27% of our steam capacity as of December 31, 2010. These facilities are dependent on 17 Table of Contents reasonable contracts for the sale of electricity. If, for any reason, including if utilities that purchase electricity from us are no longer required by regulation to enter into electricity sales contracts with us, we were unable to enter into new or replacement contracts or were to lose any existing contract, we may not be able to supply 100% of the steam requirements necessary to maximize production from our heavy oil assets. An additional investment in various steam sources may be necessary to replace such steam, and there may be risks and delays in being able to install conventional steam equipment due to permitting requirements and availability of equipment. The financial cost and timing of such new investment may adversely affect our production, capital outlays and cash provided by operating activities. We executed agreements with Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E), which extend the electricity sales contracts for our 18 MW and 38 MW facilities until December 31, 2011. These contracts could also terminate earlier upon CPUC approval of replacement contracts, or under certain other limited circumstances. Our electricity sales contracts with Southern California Edison Company (Edison) for our Placerita facility will continue in effect until the CPUC approves and makes available replacement standard form QF contracts, which, under the pending Global Settlement, will likely be sometime in 2011; however, our current contracts could terminate earlier under certain limited circumstances. The future of the electricity market in California is uncertain. We utilize cogeneration plants in California to generate lower cost steam compared to conventional steam generation methods. Electricity produced by our cogeneration plants is sold to utilities and the steam costs are allocated to our oil and natural gas operations. We executed agreements with PG&E, which extend the electricity sales contracts for our 18 MW and 38 MW facilities until December 31, 2011. These contracts could also terminate earlier upon CPUC approval of replacement contracts, or under certain other limited circumstances. Our electricity sales contracts with Edison for our Placerita facility will continue in effect until the CPUC approves and makes available replacement standard form QF contracts, which, under the pending Global Settlement, will likely be sometime in 2011; however, our current contracts could terminate earlier under certain limited circumstances. Additionally, legal and regulatory decisions (especially related to the pricing of electricity under the contracts such as the SRAC Decision and the pending issues as to effective dates on retroactivity), can by reducing our electricity revenues adversely affect the economics of our cogeneration facilities and as a result the cost of steam for use in our oil and natural gas operations. In addition, any final determination by the CPUC to apply the SRAC pricing formula, which became effective on August 1, 2009 retroactively, so as to require payment on a one-time basis, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and operating cash flows. During the California energy crisis in 2000 and 2001, we had electricity sales contracts with PG&E and Edison, and a portion of the electricity prices paid to us under such contracts from December 2000 to March 27, 2001 has been under a degree of legal challenge since that time. There are ongoing proceedings before the CPUC in which Edison and PG&E are seeking credit against future payments they are to make for electricity purchases based on retroactive adjustments to pricing under contracts with us. It is possible that we may have a liability pending the final outcome of the CPUC proceedings on the matter. Whether or not retroactive adjustments will be ordered, how such adjustments would be calculated and what period they would cover are too uncertain to estimate at this time. On December 21, 2010, the CPUC issued an order that approves a Global Settlement by and between the three California utilities, two consumer representative groups and three parties that represent the interests of the majority of the cogeneration facilities in the state, including us, which upon its effectiveness would extinguish all pending claims of retroactive payment liability, would make available long-term standard form QF contracts and would prospectively revise SRAC pricing. Before this Global Settlement can become effective however, it must survive certain regulatory and/or legal challenges, and the FERC must grant a forthcoming application by the California utilities to be relieved from the PURPA obligation. A shortage of natural gas in California could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to the risks associated with a shortage of natural gas and/or the transportation of natural gas into and within 18 Table of Contents California. We are highly dependent on sufficient volumes of natural gas necessary to use for fuel in generating steam in our heavy oil operations in California. If the required volume of natural gas for use in our operations were to be unavailable or too highly priced to produce heavy oil economically, our production could be adversely impacted. We have firm transportation to move 12,000 MMBtu/D on the Kern River Pipeline from the Rocky Mountains to Kern County, CA, which accounts for approximately one-quarter of our current requirement. Our use of oil and natural gas price and interest rate derivative contracts involves credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases or reduced expenses from lower interest rates, as well as result in significant fluctuations in net income and shareholders' equity. We use derivative instruments with respect to a portion of our oil and natural gas production with the objective of achieving a more predictable cash flow, and reducing our exposure to a significant decline in the price of crude oil and natural gas. From time to time we utilize interest rate derivative contracts to fix the rate on a portion of our variable rate indebtedness, as only a portion of our total indebtedness has a fixed rate and we are therefore exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. While the use of derivative instruments limits the downside risk of price declines or rising interest rates, as applicable, their use may also limit future revenues from price increases or reduced expenses from lower interest rates, as applicable. Derivative transactions also involve the risk that the counterparty may be unable to satisfy its obligations. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and natural gas reserves. To maintain production levels, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and natural gas reserves to replace those depleted by production. Without successful exploration, exploitation or acquisition activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline. We may not be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost. In addition, substantial capital is required to replace and grow reserves. If lower oil and natural gas prices or operating difficulties result in our cash flow from operations being less than expected or limit our ability to borrow under credit arrangements, we may be unable to expend the capital necessary to locate and to develop or acquire new oil and natural gas reserves. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and future cash flows from those reserves, future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from estimates. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Estimating accumulations of oil and natural gas is a complex process that relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds, some of which are mandated by the SEC. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: •quality and quantity of available data; •interpretation of that data; and •accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of development, changes in development schedule and exploration and prevailing oil and natural gas prices. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base both our estimated quantities of reserves and our estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on an un-weighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the month price for each month during the calendar year and on year-end 19 Table of Contents costs. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs used in the estimate. Future commodity price declines and/or increased capital costs may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values, which could adversely affect our results of operations and limit our ability to borrow funds. The value of our assets depend on crude oil and natural gas prices. Declines in these prices as well as increases in development costs, changes in well performance, delays in asset development or deterioration of drilling results may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, and accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We capitalize costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and natural gas properties under the successful efforts accounting method. If net capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties exceed fair value, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. We review the carrying value of our properties annually and at any time when events or circumstances indicate a review is necessary, based on estimated prices as of the end of the reporting period. The carrying value of oil and natural gas properties is computed on a field-by-field basis. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if oil or natural gas prices increase. While we did not incur any such impairment charges in 2009 or 2010, natural gas prices have decreased significantly below price levels at the time of the acquisition of our natural gas properties in 2006 and 2008. It is possible that further declines in commodity prices could prompt an impairment in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our Credit Agreement. Approximately 51% of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2010 were proved undeveloped reserves and may be reclassified as unproved or may not ultimately be produced or developed. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data included in the reserve engineer reports assumes that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves. Although cost and reserve estimates attributable to our crude oil and natural gas reserves have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, we cannot be sure that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. The SEC generally requires that reserves classified as proved undeveloped be capable of conversion into proved developed within five years of classification unless specific circumstances justify a longer time. Proved undeveloped reserves that are not timely developed are subject to possible reclassification as non-proved reserves. Substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and operating cash flows. In addition, our undeveloped reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced during the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and of proved undeveloped acreage. Major and independent oil and natural gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and natural gas properties, as well as for the equipment, supplies, labor and services required to operate and develop their properties. Some of these resources may be limited and have higher prices due to current strong demand. Many of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete within the industry. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and natural gas industry. 20 Table of Contents These larger companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition, results of operations, and operating cash flows Drilling is a high-risk activity. Our future success will partly depend on the success of our drilling program. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail below, these drilling activities involve the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. Also, we are often uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells. Furthermore, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: •obtaining government and tribal required permits; •unexpected drilling conditions; •pressure or irregularities in formations; •equipment failures or accidents; •adverse weather conditions; •changes in regulations; •compliance with governmental or landowner requirements; and •shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment and/or services, including experienced labor. As a result, there can be no assurance that our anticipated production levels will be realized or that our estimates of proved reserves will not be negatively impacted. For example, although we expect that our Diatomite production will increase to 5,000 BOE/D by mid-2011, actual production from these assets could be significantly lower. During the first half of 2010, Diatomite production decreased primarily due to the inability to drill new wells pending the receipt of permits from the DOGGR. Although we have received such permits, the DOGGR is expected to issue new regulations for the development of Diatomite, the effect of which we are unable to determine until such regulations are issued. The oil and natural gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses. The oil and gas business involves many operating risks, and insurance we maintain may not protect us against all of these risks. These risks include: •fires; •explosions; •blow-outs; •uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, formation water or drilling fluids; •natural disasters; •pipe or cement failures; •casing collapses; •embedded oilfield drilling and service tools; •abnormally pressured formations; 21 Table of Contents •major equipment failures, including cogeneration facilities; and •environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of: •injury or loss of life; •severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; •pollution and other environmental damage; •investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; •regulatory investigation and penalties; •more stringent regulations applicable to our operations; •suspension of operations; and •repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect us. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. For instance, we do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and operating cash flows. While we intend to obtain and maintain insurance coverage we deem appropriate for these risks, there can be no assurance that our operations will not expose us to liabilities exceeding such insurance coverage or to liabilities not covered by insurance. We are subject to comprehensive and stringent existing and pending laws and regulations that could give rise to substantial liabilities from environmental contamination or otherwise adversely affect our cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state, regional and local levels by environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on our discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for our management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and solid and hazardous wastes, and impose obligations requiring us to investigate and remediate contamination resulting from our operations. In certain circumstances, we also must satisfy federal and state requirements for providing environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before we commence exploration and production activities. Environmental requirements applicable to our operations generally have become more stringent in recent years, and compliance with those requirements has become more expensive. Frequently changing environmental laws and regulations have increased our costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells and other facilities, and may impose substantial liabilities if we fail to comply with such regulations or for any contamination resulting from our operations. Our business results from operations and financial condition, results of operations, and operating cash flows may be adversely affected by any failure to comply with, or future changes to, these laws and regulations. In particular, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal sanctions, including the payment of monetary penalties and the performance of remedial obligations. 22 Table of Contents From time to time we have experienced accidental spills, leaks and other discharges of contaminants at our properties. We could be liable for the investigation or remediation of such contamination, as well as claims for personal injury, property damage or natural resource damage arising from the contamination. We have incurred expenses and penalties in connection with contamination arising from our operations in the past, and we may do so in the future. Such liabilities may arise at many locations, including properties in which we have an ownership interest but no operational control, properties we formerly owned or operated and sites where our wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties that we currently own or operate, and may arise because of our status as an owner or operator and not because of any noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), such liabilities may be joint and several, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. Some of the properties that we have acquired, or in which we may hold an interest but not operational control, may have past or ongoing contamination for which we may be held responsible. Some of our operations are in environmentally sensitive areas that may provide habitat for endangered or threatened species, and other protected areas, and our operations in such areas must satisfy additional regulatory requirements. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed certain drilling projects and/or access to prospective lands and have filed litigation in an attempt to overturn decisions granting the performance of such projects, including decisions made by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management regarding several leases in Utah that we have been awarded. Climate change legislation or regulatory initiatives may adversely affect our operations, our cost structure, and the demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) present an endangerment to public heath and the environment because emissions of such gasses are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes. Following issuance of this finding, the EPA adopted two sets of regulations under the Clean Air Act. The first limits emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles beginning with the 2012 model year. The EPA has asserted that these final motor vehicle GHG emission standards trigger Clean Air Act construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. On June 3, 2010, the EPA published its final rule to address the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V permitting programs. This rule "tailors" these permitting programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. It is widely expected that facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to "best available control technology" standards for GHG that have yet to be developed. With regard to the monitoring and reporting of GHGs, on December 17, 2010, the EPA amended the "Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases" rule (Reporting Rule), originally issued in September 2009. The Reporting Rule establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gases to inventory and report their greenhouse gases emissions annually on a facility-by-facility basis. Further, on November 8, 2010, EPA finalized new GHG reporting requirements for upstream petroleum and natural gas systems, which will be added to EPA's GHG Reporting Rule. Facilities containing petroleum and natural gas systems that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of CO2 equivalent per year will now be required to report annual GHG emissions to EPA, with the first report due on March 31, 2012. Similarly, legislation has been introduced in the United States Congress that would establish measures restricting greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. At the state level, over one-half of the states, including California, have begun taking actions to control and/or reduce emissions of GHGs. The State of California has adopted legislation that caps California's GHG emissions at 1990 levels by 23 Table of Contents 2020, and the California Air Resources Board (CARB) has implemented mandatory reporting regulations and is proceeding with early action measures to reduce GHG emissions prior to January 1, 2012. CARB is also developing regulations to implement a cap and trade program in 2012 to reduce GHG emissions. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress has, in the past, considered two companion bills for the "Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act" (the FRAC Act). While now dead, if reintroduced, the bills would repeal an exemption in the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (SWDA) for the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids near drinking water sources. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of the FRAC Act have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies, and the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. If reintroduced, the legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process. The availability of this information could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. Further, if enacted, the FRAC Act could result in additional regulatory burdens such as permitting, construction, financial assurance, monitoring, recordkeeping, and plugging and abandonment requirements. In addition, various state and local governments are considering increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain environmentally sensitive areas such as watersheds. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulation imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and tribal regulations and laws; compliance with existing and future laws may increase our costs and delay our operations. Our activities are also subject to regulation by the federal government, oil and natural gas-producing states and one Native American tribe. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of oil and natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from federal, state, local and Native American tribal authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well, or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions that are more expensive than we have anticipated could have a negative effect on our ability to explore or develop our properties. Changes to current tax laws may affect our ability to take certain deductions. Substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws have been proposed that, if adopted, would affect, among other things, our ability to take certain deductions related to our operations, including depletion deductions, deductions for intangible drilling and development costs and deductions for United States production activities. These changes, if enacted into law, could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flow. 24 Table of Contents Derivatives legislation enacted in 2010 could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. New comprehensive financial reform legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010. The legislation calls for the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC) to regulate certain markets for over-the-counter (OTC) derivative products. Currently, final rules to be adopted by the CFTC implementing the mandates of the new legislation are pending. Such rules would require certain derivatives to clear through clearinghouses. The effect on our business will depend in part on whether we are determined to be a major swap participant or swap dealer or a qualifying end-user, as those terms are defined in the final rules. We may be required to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities. The CFTC has proposed regulations that, if adopted, may exempt us from margin and clearing requirements, but the timing of adoption of such regulations, and their scope, is uncertain. Even if we are not deemed a major swap participant or swap dealer, the rules could impose burdens on market participants to such an extent that liquidity in the bilateral OTC derivative market decreases substantially. The legislation may also require counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The legislation and any new regulations, including determinations with respect to the applicability of margin requirements and other trading structures, could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Our revenues could be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. Property acquisitions are a component of our growth strategy, and our failure to complete future acquisitions successfully could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. Our business strategy has emphasized growth through strategic acquisitions, but we may not be able to continue to identify properties for acquisition or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our strategy of completing acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. If we are unable to achieve strategic acquisitions, our growth may be impaired, thus impacting earnings, cash from operations and reserves. Acquisitions are subject to the uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in part to acquisitions of properties with additional development potential and properties with minimal production at acquisition but significant growth potential, and we expect acquisitions will continue to contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, production taxes, access rights and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact, and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties, which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties, and we do not always discover structural, subsurface, environmental and access problems that may exist or arise. Our review prior to signing a definitive purchase agreement may be even more limited. 25 Table of Contents We generally are not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, on acquisitions. Often, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. If material breaches are discovered by us prior to closing, we could require adjustments to the purchase price or if the claims are significant, we or the seller may have a right to terminate the agreement. We could also fail to discover breaches or defects prior to closing and incur significant unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, or experience losses due to title defects, for which we would have limited or no contractual remedies or insurance coverage. There are risks in making acquisitions, including difficulties in integrating acquired properties into our business, additional liabilities and expenses associated with acquired properties, diversion of management attention, and costs of increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Increasing our reserve base through acquisitions is an important part of our business strategy. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, the future prices of oil and natural gas, revenues and costs, including synergies; •an inability to integrate successfully the properties and businesses we acquire; •a decrease in our liquidity to the extent we use a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; •a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur debt to finance acquisitions; •the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; •the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; •unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and •customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property or business will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. If third-party pipelines interconnected to our natural gas wells and gathering facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport our natural gas, our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines that provide delivery options from our wells and gathering facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines, their continuing operation in their current manner is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines become partially or fully unavailable to transport our natural gas, or if the natural gas quality specifications for their pipelines change so as to restrict our ability to deliver natural gas to those pipelines, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act (NGA) exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional 26 Table of Contents tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company, but the status of these lines has never been challenged before FERC. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress, and application of existing FERC policies to individual factual circumstances. Accordingly, the classification and regulation of some of our natural gas gathering facilities may be subject to challenge before FERC or subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. In the event our gathering facilities are reclassified to FERC-regulated transmission services, we may be required to charge lower rates and our revenues could thereby be reduced. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. FERC has issued an order requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including natural gas gatherers and marketers, which engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases to submit annual reports regarding those transactions to FERC. In addition, FERC has issued an order requiring major non-interstate pipelines, defined as certain non-interstate pipelines delivering, on an annual basis, more than an average of 50 million MMBtu of gas over the previous three calendar years, to post daily certain information regarding the pipeline's capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Should we fail to comply with these requirements or any other applicable FERC-administered statute, rule, regulation or order, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. We depend to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of our executive management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of these or other key personnel could adversely affect our business, and we do not maintain key man insurance on the lives of any of these persons. Our drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers, landmen and other professionals. Competition for many of these professionals is intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel and professionals, our ability to compete could be harmed. We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule. Our final determination of whether to drill any scheduled or budgeted wells will depend on a number of factors, including: •results of our exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of our seismic data, if any; •availability of sufficient capital resources to us and any other participants for the drilling of the prospects; •approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled; •economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability and prices of drilling rigs and crews; and •availability of leases, license options, farm-outs, other rights to explore and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame, or at all. For instance, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties and rig availability and access to our drilling locations utilizing available roads. In addition, we will not necessarily drill wells on all of our identified drilling locations on our acreage. 27 Table of Contents We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies. We acquire from third parties, or directly from the mineral fee owners, working and revenue interests in the oil and natural gas leaseholds and estates upon which we will perform our exploration activities. The existence of a material title deficiency can reduce the value or render a property worthless, thus adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flow. Title insurance covering mineral leaseholds is not always available, and when available is not always obtained. As is customary in our industry, we rely upon the judgment of staff and independent landmen who perform the field work of examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest and/or undertake drilling activities. We, in some cases, perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title to us. In cases involving material title problems, the amount paid for affected oil and natural gas leases or estates can be generally lost, and a prospect can become undrillable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 