Item 1A. Risk Factors Other Factors Affecting the Company's Business and Financial Results Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and reserve calculations depend substantially on reasonable prices for oil and gas. These prices also affect the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures, working capital and payments on our debt and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (see Note 6 to the financial statements) is subject to periodic asset redeterminations based in part on changing expectations of future crude oil and natural gas prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. The oil and natural gas markets fluctuate widely, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. Oil prices have recently been at historically high levels and natural gas prices have been at high levels over the past several years when compared to prior periods. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: · regional, domestic and foreign supply and perceptions of supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; · level of consumer demand; · weather conditions; · overall domestic and global political and economic conditions, including those in the Middle East and South America; · actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; · the impact of increasing liquefied natural gas, or LNG, deliveries to the United States; 14 Berry Petroleum Company - 2007 Form 10-K · technological advances affecting energy consumption and supply; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; · the impact of energy conservation efforts; · the capacity, cost and availability of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities, and the proximity of these facilities to our wells; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, declines in commodity prices will: · reduce the amount of cash flow available to make capital expenditures or make acquisitions; · reduce the number of our drilling locations; · negatively impact the value of our reserves, because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; and · limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. We have multiple hedges placed on our oil and gas production. See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Our heavy crude in California may be less economic than lighter crude oil and natural gas. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 60% of our proved reserves, or 101.6 million barrels, consisted of heavy oil. Light crude oil represented 9% and natural gas represented 31% of our oil and gas reserves. Heavy crude oil sells for a discount to light crude oil, as more complex refining equipment is required to convert heavy oil into high value products. We currently sell our heavy crude oil in California under a long-term contract for approximately $8.10 below WTI, the U.S. benchmark crude oil pricing. Regional pricing can influence commodity prices. Additionally, most of our crude oil in California is produced using the enhanced oil recovery process of steam injection. This process is more costly than primary and secondary recovery methods. A widening of commodity differentials may adversely impact our revenues and our economics. Our crude oil and natural gas are priced in the local markets where the production occurs based on local or regional supply and demand factors. The prices that we receive for our crude oil and natural gas production are generally lower than the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for calculating commodity derivative positions. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we receive is called a differential. We cannot accurately predict natural gas and crude oil differentials. Price differentials may widen in the future. Numerous factors may influence local pricing, such as refinery capacity, pipeline capacity and specifications, upsets in the mid-stream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions and governmental regulations. We may be adversely impacted by a widening differential on the products we sell. Our oil and natural gas hedges are based on WTI or natural gas index prices, so we may be subject to basis risk if the differential on the products we sell widens from those benchmarks and we do not have a contract tied to those benchmarks. Additionally, insufficient pipeline capacity or trucking capability and the lack of demand in any given operating area may cause the differential to widen in that area compared to other oil and natural gas producing areas. Increases in the differential between the benchmark price for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive could adversely affect our financial condition. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to crude oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, processing facilities, trucking capability and refineries owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of natural gas pipelines, gathering system capacity, processing facilities or refineries. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver the production to market. See firm transportation summary schedule at Item 1 Business. Factors that can cause price volatility for crude oil and natural gas include: · availability of gathering systems with sufficient capacity to handle local production; · seasonal fluctuations in local demand for production; · local and national natural gas storage capacity; · interstate pipeline capacity; · availability and cost of natural gas transportation facilities; and · availability and capacity of refineries. 15 Berry Petroleum Company - 2007 Form 10-K Utah - During 2007, our Utah light crude oil was sold under multiple contracts with different purchasers for varying pricing terms, and in some cases our realized price was further reduced by transportation charges. As operator we deliver all produced volumes pursuant to these contracts, although our working interest partners or royalty owners may take their respective volumes in kind and market their own volumes. We experienced increasing difficulty in locating additional buyers of our crude oil production from this region in the latter part of 2006. Our Utah crude oil is a paraffinic crude and can be processed efficiently by only a limited number of refineries. Increased production of crude oil in the region, the ability of refiners to process other higher sulfur crudes as a result of capital upgrades, as well as the increasing availability of Canadian crude oil, put downward pressure on the sales price of our crude oil. On February 27, 2007, we entered into a multi-staged crude oil sales contract with a refiner for our Uinta basin light crude oil. Under the agreement, the refiner began purchasing 3,200 Bbl/D on July 1, 2007. Upon completion of its refinery expansion in Salt Lake City, which is expected in the first half of 2008, the refiner will increase its total purchased volumes to 5,000 Bbl/D through June 30, 2013. Pricing under the contract, which includes transportation and gravity adjustments, is at a fixed percentage of WTI, which was near the posted price at the contract’s starting date. As global and regional prices of crude oil have risen in 2007, we are receiving crude oil prices below the posted price, although this posted price is thinly traded and does not necessarily indicate the actual price at which a seller can market their crude oil. While our price differentials have widened as the crude oil price increased, we are able to sell 100% of our crude oil to a refiner and avoid any field shut down due to the inability of placing the crude. The margins on our Uinta crude allow us to reinvest in drilling the field and to retain and increase the overall value of the field. As of January 1, 2008 this contract is our only sales contract for our Uinta oil. We may not be able to deliver minimum crude oil volumes required by our sales contract. Production volumes from our Uinta properties over the next six years are uncertain and there is no assurance that we will be able to consistently meet the minimum contractual requirement. Upon completion of the refiner’s refinery expansion in Salt Lake City, which is expected in the first half of 2008, the refiner will increase its total purchased volumes to 5,000 Bbl/D through June 30, 2013. During the term of the contract, the minimum number of delivered barrels (“base daily volume”) is 3,200 Bbl/D increasing to 5,000 Bbl/D upon the certified completion of the refinery upgrade. In the event that we cannot produce the necessary volume, we may need to purchase crude to meet our contract requirements. We may be subject to the risk of adding additional steam generation equipment if the electrical market deteriorates significantly. We are dependent on several cogeneration facilities that, combined, provide approximately 35% of our steam capacity. These facilities are dependent on reasonable power contracts for the sale of electricity. If, for any reason, including if utilities that purchase electricity from us are no longer required by regulation to enter into power contracts with us, we were unable to enter into new or replacement contracts or were to lose any existing contract, we may not be able to supply 100% of the steam requirements necessary to maximize production from our heavy oil assets. An additional investment in various steam sources may be necessary to replace such steam, and there may be risks and delays in being able to install conventional steam equipment due to permitting requirements and availability of equipment. The financial cost and timing of such new investment may adversely affect our production, capital outlays and cash provided by operating activities. We have power contracts which expire in 2009 covering our electricity generation. The future of the electricity market in California is uncertain. We utilize cogeneration plants in California to generate lower cost steam compared to conventional steam generation methods. Electricity produced by our cogeneration plants is sold to utilities and the steam costs are allocated to our oil and gas operations. While we have electricity sales contracts in place with the utilities that are currently scheduled to terminate in 2009, legal and regulatory decisions (especially related to the pricing of electricity under the contracts), can adversely affect the economics of our cogeneration facilities and as a result the cost of steam for use in our oil and gas operations. A shortage of natural gas in California could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to the risks associated with a shortage of natural gas and/or the transportation of natural gas into and within California. We are highly dependent on sufficient volumes of natural gas necessary to use for fuel in generating steam in our heavy oil operations in California. If the required volume of natural gas for use in our operations were to be unavailable or too highly priced to produce heavy oil economically, our production could be adversely impacted. We have firm transportation to move 12,000 MMBtu/D on the Kern River Pipeline from the Rocky Mountains to Kern County, CA, which accounts for approximately one-quarter of our current requirement. Our use of oil and gas price and interest rate hedging contracts involves credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases or reduced expenses from lower interest rates, as well as result in significant fluctuations in net income and shareholders' equity. We use hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production with the objective of achieving a more predictable cash flow, and reducing our exposure to a significant decline in the price of crude oil and natural gas. We also utilize interest rate hedges to fix the rate on a portion of our variable rate indebtedness, as only a portion of our total indebtedness has a fixed rate and we are therefore exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. While the use of hedging transactions limits the downside risk of price declines or rising interest rates, as applicable, their use may also limit future revenues from price increases or reduced expenses from lower interest rates, as applicable. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that the counterparty may be unable to satisfy its obligations. 16 Berry Petroleum Company - 2007 Form 10-K Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves. To maintain production levels, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those depleted by production. Without successful exploration, exploitation or acquisition activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline. We may not be able to find, develop or to acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost. In addition, substantial capital is required to replace and grow reserves. If lower oil and gas prices or operating difficulties result in our cash flow from operations being less than expected or limit our ability to borrow under credit arrangements, we may be unable to expend the capital necessary to locate and to develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and future cash flows from those reserves, future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from estimates. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Estimating accumulations of oil and gas is a complex process that relies on subjective interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds, some of which are mandated by the SEC. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: · quality and quantity of available data; · interpretation of that data; and · accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of development and exploration and prevailing oil and gas prices. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Future commodity price declines and/or increased capital costs may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values which could adversely affect our results of operations and limit our ability to borrow funds. Declines in oil and natural gas prices may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We capitalize costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and gas properties under the successful efforts accounting method. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed fair value, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. We review the carrying value of our properties annually and at any time when events or circumstances indicate a review is necessary, based on estimated prices as of the end of the reporting period. The carrying value of oil and gas properties is computed on a field-by-field basis. Once incurred, a writedown of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if oil or gas prices increase. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and of proved undeveloped acreage. Major and independent oil and gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and gas properties, as well as for the equipment, supplies, labor and services required to operate and develop their properties. Some of these resources may be limited and have higher prices due to current strong demand. Many of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete within the industry. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and gas industry. These larger companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Berry Petroleum Company - 2007 Form 10-K Drilling is a high-risk activity. Our future success will partly depend on the success of our drilling program. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail below, these drilling activities involve the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered. Also, we are often uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells. Furthermore, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: · obtaining government and tribal required permits; · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · compliance with governmental or landowner requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment and/or services, including experienced labor. The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses; insurance will not protect us against all of these risks. These risks include: · fires; · explosions; · blow-outs; · uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, formation water or drilling fluids; · natural disasters; · pipe or cement failures; · casing collapses; · embedded oilfield drilling and service tools; · abnormally pressured formations; · major equipment failures, including cogeneration facilities; and · environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of: · injury or loss of life; · severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution and other environmental damage; · investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; · regulatory investigation and penalties; · suspension of operations; and · repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect us. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. For instance, we do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we intend to obtain and maintain insurance coverage we deem appropriate for these risks, there can be no assurance that our operations will not expose us to liabilities exceeding such insurance coverage or to liabilities not covered by insurance. We are subject to complex federal, state, regional, local and other laws and regulations that could give rise to substantial liabilities from environmental contamination or otherwise adversely affect our cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. All facets of our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state, regional and local levels. In addition, a portion of our leases in the Uinta basin are, and some of our future leases may be, regulated by Native American tribes. Environmental laws and regulations impose limitations on our discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for our management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose on us obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. We also must satisfy, in some cases, federal and state requirements for providing environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before we commence exploration and production activities. Environmental and other requirements applicable to our operations generally have become more stringent in recent years, and compliance with those requirements more expensive. Frequently changing environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased our costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells and other facilities, and may impose substantial liabilities if we fail to comply with such 18 Berry Petroleum Company - 2007 Form 10-K regulations or for any contamination resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Furthermore, our business, results from operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by any failure to comply with, or future changes to, these laws and regulations. In addition, we could also be liable for the investigation or remediation of contamination, as well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination such as claims for personal injury or property damage. Such liabilities may arise at many locations, including properties in which we have an ownership interest but no operational control, properties we formerly owned or operated and sites where our wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties that we currently own or operate, and may arise even where the contamination does not result from any noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. We have incurred expenses and penalties in connection with remediation of contamination in the past, and we may do so in the future. From time to time we have experienced accidental spills, leaks and other discharges of contaminants at some of our properties, as have other similarly situated oil and gas companies. Some of the properties that we have acquired, or in which we may hold an interest but not operational control, may have past or ongoing contamination for which we may be held responsible. Some of our operations are in environmentally sensitive areas that may provide habitat for endangered or threatened species, and other protected areas, and our operations in such areas must satisfy additional regulatory requirements. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed certain drilling projects and/or access to prospective lands and have filed litigation to attempt to stop such projects, including decisions by the Bureau of Land Management regarding several leases in Utah that we have been awarded. Our activities are also subject to the regulation by oil and natural gas-producing states and one Native American tribe of conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of oil and natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from federal, state, local and Native American tribal authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well, or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions that are more expensive than we have anticipated could have a negative effect on our ability to explore or develop our properties. Additionally, the oil and natural gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Recent and future environmental regulations, including additional federal and state restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions that may be passed in response to climate change concerns, may increase our operating costs and also reduce the demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. On September 27, 2006, California’s governor signed into law the “California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006” Assembly Bill (AB) 32, which establishes a statewide cap on GHG that will reduce the state’s GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. The California Air Resources Board (“ARB”) has been designated as the lead agency to establish and adopt regulations to implement AB 32 by January 1, 2012. Other state agencies are involved in this effort. ARB is working on mandatory reporting regulations and early action measures to reduce GHG emissions prior to the 2012 date. A number of our personnel are involved in monitoring the establishment of these regulations through industry trade groups and other organizations in which we are a member. Similar laws and regulations may be adopted by other states in which we operate or by the federal government. The oil and natural gas industry is a direct source of certain greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on such emissions could impact our future operations. It is not possible, at this time, to estimate accurately how regulations to be adopted by ARB or that may be adopted by others to address GHG emissions would impact our business. Furthermore, we benefit from federal energy laws and regulations that relieve our cogeneration plants, all of which are QFs, from compliance with extensive federal and state regulations that control the financial structure of electricity generating plants, as well as the prices and terms on which electricity may be sold by those plants. These federal energy regulations also require that electric utilities purchase electricity generated by our cogeneration plants at a price based on the purchasing utility's avoided cost, and that the utility sell back-up power to us on a non-discriminatory basis. The term "avoided cost" is defined as the incremental cost to an electric utility of electric energy or capacity, or both, which, but for the purchase from QFs, such utility would generate for itself or purchase from another source. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 amends PURPA to allow a utility to petition FERC to be relieved of its obligation to enter into any new contracts with QFs if the FERC determines that a competitive wholesale electricity market is available to QFs in its service territory. FERC issued an order on October 20, 2006 implementing this amendment to PURPA and on December 20, 2006 issued a subsequent order granting limited rehearing of the October 20, 2006 order. Any contracts in effect at the time of such determination would not be affected. Such a determination has not been made for our service areas in California; however, one of the California utilities has indicated that an application for relief will be filed upon the implementation of certain changes to the California electricity markets. Those market changes are not expected to occur until late in 2008. While the granting of an application for relief by FERC would not affect any of our current SO contracts, it could limit the availability of future contracts pursuant to PURPA. FERC regulations also permit QFs and utilities to negotiate agreements for utility purchases of power at rates different than the utilities' avoided costs. 19 Berry Petroleum Company - 2007 Form 10-K A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or NGA, but FERC regulation still affects our gathering operations. FERC has recently proposed to require major non-interstate pipelines, including natural gas gathering pipelines (to comply with certain Internet posting requirements) with the goal of promoting transparency in the interstate natural gas market. The proposed rule would exclude from the posting requirement non-interstate pipelines flowing annually ten million MMBtus or less of gas, lying entirely upstream of a processing plant or delivering more than 95% of their gas directly to end users. FERC has not yet issued a final rule on that proposed rulemaking. We may experience an increase in costs if the rule is adopted as proposed. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our gathering and natural gas production and sales operations. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities (including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion) may affect access to natural gas transportation. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. Accordingly the classification and regulation of some of our natural gas gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or EP Act 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. State regulation of natural gas gathering facilities and intrastate transportation pipelines generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take and common purchaser requirements, and complaint-based rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at the state level because in recent years FERC has permitted interstate pipeline transmission companies to transfer their gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. Our gathering operations could be adversely affected in the future should they become subject to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services. These operations may also be, or become subject to, safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of such facilities. Other state regulations may not directly apply to our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for purchase, processing and sale, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from natural gas wells. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also may affect our business. Property acquisitions are a component of our growth strategy, and our failure to complete future acquisitions successfully could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. Our business strategy has emphasized growth through strategic acquisitions, but we may not be able to continue to identify properties for acquisition or we may not be able to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our strategy of completing acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. If we are unable to achieve strategic acquisitions, our growth may be impaired, thus impacting earnings, cash from operations and reserves. Acquisitions are subject to the uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in part to acquisitions of properties with additional development potential and properties with minimal production at acquisition but significant growth potential, and we expect acquisitions will continue to contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, production taxes and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties, which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties, and we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. Our review prior to signing a definitive purchase agreement may be even more limited. 20 Berry Petroleum Company - 2007 Form 10-K We generally are not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, on acquisitions. Often, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. If material breaches are discovered by us prior to closing, we could require adjustments to the purchase price or if the claims are significant, we or the seller may have a right to terminate the agreement. We could also fail to discover breaches or defects prior to closing and incur significant unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, or experience losses due to title defects, for which we would have limited or no contractual remedies or insurance coverage. There are risks in acquiring producing properties, including difficulties in integrating acquired properties into our business, additional liabilities and expenses associated with acquired properties, diversion of management attention, and costs of increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Increasing our reserve base through acquisitions is an important part of our business strategy. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, the future prices of oil and natural gas, revenues and costs, including synergies; · an inability to integrate successfully the properties and businesses we acquire; · a decrease in our liquidity to the extent we use a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; · a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur debt to finance acquisitions; · the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; · unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and · customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property or business will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential problems. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. If third-party pipelines interconnected to our natural gas wells and gathering facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport our natural gas, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.We depend upon third party pipelines that provide delivery options from our wells and gathering facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines, their continuing operation in their current manner is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines become partially or fully unavailable to transport our natural gas, or if the gas quality specifications for their pipelines change so as to restrict our ability to deliver natural gas to those pipelines, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. We depend to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of our executive management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of these or other key personnel could adversely affect our business, and we do not maintain key man insurance on the lives of any of these persons. Our drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers, landmen and other professionals. Competition for many of these professionals is intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel and professionals, our ability to compete could be harmed. We have limited control over the activities on properties that we do not operate. Although we operate most of the properties in which we have an interest, other companies operate some of the properties. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of these nonoperated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund their operation. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns or lead to unexpected future costs. 21 Berry Petroleum Company - 2007 Form 10-K We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule. Our final determination of whether to drill any scheduled or budgeted wells will depend on a number of factors, including: · results of our exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of our seismic data, if any; · availability of sufficient capital resources to us and any other participants for the drilling of the prospects; · approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled; · economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability and prices of drilling rigs and crews; and · availability of leases, license options, farm-outs, other rights to explore and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame, or at all. In addition, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties, rig availability and access to our drilling locations utilizing available roads. As of December 31, 2007, we own three drilling rigs, two of which are drilling on our properties, and have additional contract commitments on another three drilling rigs. See contractual obligations in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies. We acquire from third parties, or directly from the mineral fee owners, working and revenue interests in the oil and natural gas leaseholds and estates upon which we will perform our exploration activities. The existence of a material title deficiency can reduce the value or render a property worthless thus adversely affecting the results of our operations and financial condition. Title insurance covering mineral leaseholds is not always available and when available is not always obtained. As is customary in our industry, we rely upon the judgment of staff and independent landmen who perform the field work of examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest and/or undertake drilling activities. We, in some cases, perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title to us. In cases involving title problems, the amount paid for affected oil and natural gas leases or estates can be generally lost, and a prospect can become undrillable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 