risk factors listed from time to time in the reports we file with the SEC, including those described below under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This list is not exhaustive. All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on our behalf are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in this report in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we do not intend to update publicly any forward-looking statements after the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION NOTES: (1) OUR FISCAL YEAR BEGINS ON APRIL 1 AND ENDS ON MARCH 31. ALL REFERENCES TO FISCAL YEARS REFER TO THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING MARCH 31 OF THE REFERENCE YEAR, THUS, REFERENCES IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K TO THE YEAR 2009 OR FISCAL 2009 REFER TO THE 12-MONTH PERIOD FROM APRIL 1, 2008 THROUGH MARCH 31, 2009 AND REFERENCES TO THE YEAR 2010 OR FISCAL 2010 REFER TO THE 12-MONTH PERIOD FROM APRIL 1, 2009 THROUGH MARCH 31, 2010. (2) ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THIS REPORT ARE IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS. Measurement Specialties, Inc. is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of sensors and sensor-based systems for original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) and end users, based on a broad portfolio of proprietary technology and typically characterized by the MEAS brand name. We are a global business and we believe we have a high degree of diversity when considering our geographic reach, broad range of products, number of end-use markets and breadth of customer base. The Company is a multi-national corporation with twelve primary manufacturing facilities strategically located in the United States, China, France, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland, enabling the Company to produce and market globally a wide range of sensors that use advanced technologies to measure precise ranges of physical characteristics. These sensors are used for engine and vehicle, medical, general industrial, consumer and home appliance, military/aerospace, and test and measurement applications. The Company’s sensor products include pressure sensors and transducers, linear/rotary position sensors, piezoelectric polymer film sensors, custom microstructures, load cells, accelerometers, optical sensors, humidity, temperature and fluid property sensors. The Company's advanced technologies include piezo-resistive silicon sensors, application-specific integrated circuits, micro-electromechanical systems (“MEMS”), piezoelectric polymers, foil strain gauges, force balance systems, fluid capacitive devices, linear and rotational variable differential transformers, electromagnetic displacement sensors, hygroscopic capacitive sensors, ultrasonic sensors, optical sensors, negative thermal coefficient (“NTC”) ceramic sensors, torque sensors and mechanical resonators. Measurement Specialties, Inc. is a New Jersey corporation organized in 1981. As more fully described below under “Changes in our Business,” we discontinued the remainder of our Consumer products business during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Except as otherwise noted, the descriptions of our business, and results and operations contained in this report reflect only our continuing operations. 4 RECENT ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES The Company has consummated fourteen acquisitions since June 2004 with a total purchase price exceeding $167,000. We believe our acquisitions continue to enhance the Company’s long-term shareholder value by increasing growth in sales and profitability through the addition of new technologies, establishing new lines of business, and/or expanding our geographic footprint. The following acquisitions are included in the consolidated financial statements as of the effective date of acquisition (See Notes 2 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K): Acquired Company Effective Date of Acquisition Country Elekon Industries U.S.A., Inc. (‘Elekon’) June 24, 2004 U.S.A. Entran Devices, Inc. and Entran SA (‘Entran’) July 16, 2004 U.S.A. and France Encoder Devices, LLC (‘Encoder’) July 16, 2004 U.S.A. Humirel, SA (‘Humirel’) December 1, 2004 France MWS Sensorik GmbH (‘MWS’) January 1, 2005 Germany Polaron Components Ltd (‘Polaron’) February 1, 2005 United Kingdom HL Planartechnik GmbH (‘HLP’) November 30, 2005 Germany Assistance Technique Experimentale (‘ATEX’) January 19, 2006 France YSIS Incorporated (‘YSI Temperature’) April 1, 2006 U.S.A. and Japan BetaTherm Group Ltd. (‘BetaTherm’) April 1, 2006 Ireland and U.S.A. Visyx Technologies, Inc. (‘Visyx’) November 20, 2007 U.S.A. Intersema Microsystems SA (‘Intersema’) December 28, 2007 Switzerland R.I.T. SARL (“Atexis”) January 30, 2009 France and China FGP Instrumentation, and related companies GS Sensors, and ALS (collectively, “FGP”) January 30, 2009 France The above companies, except for Encoder, Polaron and Visyx, which were asset purchases, became direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company upon consummation of their respective acquisitions. The Atexis and FGP acquisitions occurred in late fiscal 2009 (the “2009 Acquisitions”). Atexis is a designer and manufacturer of temperature sensors and custom probes and expanded our temperature sensor solutions through the use of several expert technologies including NTC, Platinum (Pt) and thermo-couples. These technologies allow us to offer probes and assemblies spanning the entire temperature spectrum, from -200C to 2000C. In addition, the Atexis acquisition increased our temperature manufacturing base through wholly-owned subsidiaries in France and China. FGP provides custom force, pressure and vibration sensors for aerospace, test and measurement markets. The FGP acquisition allowed MEAS to leverage operational cost synergies and FGP’s development efforts of custom force sensors for aerospace customers, capitalizing on the industry’s movement from hydraulic to electronically actuated controls (fly-by-wire). Effective December 1, 2005, we completed the sale of the Consumer segment to Fervent Group Limited (FGL), including its Cayman Island subsidiary, ML Cayman. FGL is a company controlled by the owners of River Display Limited (RDL), our long time partner and primary supplier of consumer products in Shenzhen, China. The Consumer Products segment designed and manufactured sensor-based consumer products, primarily as an original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”), that were sold to retailers and distributors in the United States and Europe. Consumer products included bathroom and kitchen scales, tire pressure gauges and distance estimators. PRODUCTS, MARKETS AND APPLICATIONS The majority of our sensors are devices, sense elements and transducers that convert physical or mechanical information into a proportionate electronic signal for display, processing, interpretation or control. Sensors are essential to the accurate measurement, resolution and display of pressure, force, linear or rotary position, tilt, vibration, motion, humidity, temperature or fluid properties such as viscosity, density and dielectric constant. 5 The sensor market is being influenced by the increase in intelligent products across virtually all end markets, including medical, transportation, energy, industrial, aerospace and consumer applications. As OEMs strive to make products “smarter”, they are generally adding more sensors to link the physical world with digital control and/or response. A summary of our sensor product offerings as of March 31, 2010 is presented in the following table. Product Family Product Technology Applications Pressure Pressure Components, Sensors and Transducers Piezoresistive Micro-Electromechanical Systems (MEMS) Disposable catheter blood pressure altimeter, dive tank pressure, process instrumentation, fluid level, measurement and intravenous drug administration monitoring, racing engine performance, barometric pressure sensors (altimeters) Microfused TM Piezoresistive Silicon Strain Gauge Automotive electronic stability control systems, paint spraying machines, fertilizer dispensers, hydraulics, refrigeration and automotive transmission Bonded Foil Strain Gauge Instrumentation-grade aerospace and weapon control systems, sub-sea pressure, ship cargo level, steel mills Bonded Silicon Strain Gauge Miniature and subminiature transducers for test and measurement applications in aerospace, auto testing and industry Force Load Cells Microfused Piezoresistive Silicon Strain Gauge Automotive occupancy weight sensing, bathroom scales, exercise equipment, appliance monitoring, intravenous drug administration monitoring Position Linear Variable Differential Transformers Inductive Electromagnetic Aerospace, machine control systems, knitting machines, industrial process control, hydraulic actuators, instrumentation Rotary Position Transducers Inductive Electromagnetic Machine control systems, instrumentation Magneto-Resistive (MR) sensors and Magnetic Encoders Magneto-Resistive (AMR) Automotive systems controls, pump counting and control, school bus stop sign arm position 6 Tilt/Angle Sensors Fluid Capacitive or Electrolytic Fluid Heavy equipment level measurement, auto security systems, tire balancing, instrumentation Piezo Film Traffic Sensors Piezoelectric Polymer (PVDF) Traffic survey, speed and traffic light enforcement, toll, and truck weigh-in-motion Custom Piezoelectric Film Sensors Piezoelectric Polymer (PVDF) Medical diagnostics, ultrasonic pen digitizers, musical instrument pickups, electronic stethoscope, security systems, anti-tamper sensors for data protection, electronic water meters Vibration Accelerometers Micro-Electromechanical Systems instrumentation Crash test sensors, anthropomorphic dummy sensors, road load dynamics, aerospace traffic alert and collision avoidance systems, instrumentation Accelerometers Piezoelectric Polymer (PVDF) Cardiac activity sensors, audio speaker feedback, appliance load balancing Humidity Relative Humidity Sensors Capacitive Polymer Auto anti-fogging systems, diesel engine controls, air climate systems, reprography machines, respirators Fluid Properties Fluid Monitoring Sensors Quartz Mechanical Resonator (Tuning Fork) Heavy truck/off-road engine and transmission fluid monitoring for viscosity, density and dielectric constant Temperature Thermistors & RTDs (Resistance Temperature Detector) Negative Temperature Co-efficient (NTC) Thermistors, Infrared (IR), Nickel RTD Patient monitoring and diagnostics, gas chromatography, HVAC & R, and non-contacting thermometers, microwave and convection oven controls, gas detection Photo Optics Pulse Oximetry Sensors (SpO 2 ); X-Ray Detection Photo optic infra-red light absorption Reusable and disposable patient blood oxygen and pulse sensors, security system and CT scanner sensor arrays Torque Static & Dynamic Torque/Force Sensors Bonded foil and discrete semiconductor gage High speed dynamic torque sensors with non-contact technology for engine & gearbox testing in aerospace and motor sports, road load sensors for heavy truck and control of moderator rods in nuclear reactors. 7 TECHNOLOGY The Company has a broad portfolio of technologies available to solve client sensing needs, some of which are proprietary to the Company. Our sensor technologies include: · PIEZORESISTIVE TECHNOLOGY. This technology is widely used for the measurement of pressure, load and acceleration, and we believe its use in these applications is expanding significantly, particularly in the form of micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS). Piezoresistive materials, most often silicon, respond to changes in applied mechanical variables such as stress, strain, or pressure by changing electrical conductivity (resistance). Changes in electrical conductivity can be readily detected in circuits by changes in current with a constant applied voltage, or conversely by changes in voltage with a constant supplied current. Silicon MEMS have several advantages over their conventionally manufactured counterparts. By leveraging existing silicon manufacturing technology, micro-electromechanical systems allow for the cost-effective manufacture of small devices with high reliability and superior performance. · APPLICATION SPECIFIC INTEGRATED CIRCUITS (“ASICS”). These circuits convert analog electrical signals into digital signals for measurement, computation or transmission. Application specific integrated circuits are well suited for use in both consumer and new sensor products because they can be designed to operate from a relatively small power source, are inexpensive and can improve system accuracy. · PIEZOELECTRIC POLYMER TECHNOLOGY. Piezoelectric materials (such as polyvinylidene fluoride, “PVDF”) convert mechanical stress or strain into proportionate electrical energy, and conversely, these materials mechanically expand or contract when voltages of opposite polarities are applied. Piezoelectric polymer films are also pyroelectric, converting heat into electrical charge. These polymer films offer unique sensor design and performance opportunities because they are thin, flexible, inert, broadband, and relatively inexpensive. This technology is ideal for applications where the use of rigid sensors would not be possible or cost-effective. · STRAIN GAUGE TECHNOLOGY. A strain gauge consists of a base substrate material that will change its electrical properties with induced stress or strain (such as bulk silicon). The foil is etched to produce a grid pattern that is sensitive to changes in geometry, usually length, along the sensitive axis producing a change in resistance. The gauge is bonded to a sensing element surface which it will monitor. The gauge operates through a direct conversion of strain to a change in gauge resistance. This technology is useful for the construction of reliable pressure and force sensors. The Company also manufactures a proprietary strain gauge called Microfused™ in which the diaphragm in contact with the media is fused to a silicon sensing element with glass at high temperatures for a hermetic seal appropriate for harsh environments. · FORCE BALANCE TECHNOLOGY. A force-balanced accelerometer is a mass referenced device that under the application of tilt or linear acceleration, detects the resulting change in position of the internal mass by a position sensor and an error signal is produced. This error signal is passed to a servo amplifier and a current developed is fed back into a moving coil. This current is proportional to the applied tilt angle or applied linear acceleration and will balance the mass back to its original position. These devices are used in military and industrial applications where high accuracy is required. · FLUID CAPACITIVE TECHNOLOGY. This technology is also referred to as fluid filled, variable capacitance. The output from the sensing element is two variable capacitance signals per axis. Rotation of the sensor about its sensitive axis produces a linear change in capacitance. This change in capacitance is electronically converted into angular data, and provides the user with a choice of ratio metric, analog, digital, or serial output signals. These signals can be easily interfaced to a number of readout and/or data collection systems. · LINEAR VARIABLE DIFFERENTIAL TRANSFORMERS (“LVDT”). An LVDT is an electromechanical sensor that produces an electrical signal proportional to the displacement of a separate movable core. LVDT’s are widely used as measurement and control sensors wherever displacements of a few micro inches to several feet can be measured directly, or where mechanical input, such as force or pressure, can be converted into linear displacement. LVDT’s are capable of extremely accurate and repeatable measurements in severe environments. 8 · MAGNETO-RESISTIVE (MR) TECHNOLOGY. MR sensors are used to measure small changes in magnetic fields. A rotation of the magnetization of thin film stripes made of magnetic permalloy (Ni 81 FE 19 ) in x-direction takes place when a magnetic field in y-direction is applied due to the magneto resistive effect. MR sensors are highly sensitive, stable, repeatable and relatively low cost. MR sensing technology can be packaged as low field sensors (i.e., electronic compass), angle sensors such as magnetic encoders, position sensors, or current sensors (i.e., for battery management). · ELECTROLYTIC FLUID TECHNOLOGY. To create an inclination sensor, a small chamber is partially filled with an electrolytic liquid. Platinum electrodes are deposited in pairs on the base of the sensor’s cell parallel to the sensitive axis. When an alternating voltage is passed between two electrodes, the electric current will create a dispersed field. By tilting the sensor and thereby reducing the level of the liquid, it is possible to confine this stray field. Because of the constant, specific conductivity of the electrolytes, a variance of resistance is formed in relation to the liquid level. A basic differential principle will yield an angle of inclination from the polarity signs. This technology is durable, highly repeatable and relatively low cost compared with alternate technologies. · INFRARED SENSING. Measurement Specialties uses thermopiles to measure temperature without contact through infrared (IR) radiation. All objects emit IR radiation, with energy increasing based on increased surface temperatures (Planck’s law). Thermopiles are created by lining up multiple thermocouples in series. If a temperature difference is induced between a hot junction connecting two thermocouples and their open ends (cold junctions), a voltage is created, allowing the thermopile to transduce the IR radiation into a voltage measure (while factoring for ambient temperature). Miniaturization and batch fabrication on micro-machined silicon wafers enable low cost devices, which can also be used for gas detection. · VARIABLE CAPACITIVE. Humidity technology is based upon variable capacitive affecting a sensitive polymer layer under changing ambient humidity conditions. This technology is uniquely designed for high volume OEM applications in consumer markets, automotive, home appliance and environmental control. · PHOTO OPTICS. Photo-Optic sensors use light to measure different parameters such as position, reflectance, color and many others. At present our main application is in non-invasive medical sensing, specifically pulse oximetry, also known as SpO2. · ULTRASONIC TECHNOLOGY. Ultrasonic sensors measure distance by calculating the time delay between transmitting and receiving an acoustic signal that is inaudible to the human ear. This technology allows for the quick, easy, and accurate measurement of distances between two points without physical contact. · TEMPERATURE. Negative temperature co-efficient (“NTC”) thermistors offer high-end precision temperature sensors by exhibiting a change in electrical resistance in response to a change in ambient temperature conditions. · MECHANICAL RESONATOR: A mechanical resonator, or tuning fork, changes frequency response while submersed in a fluid as the properties of the fluid (density, viscosity and dielectric constant) change. BUSINESS SEGMENTS As a result of the sale of our Consumer Products business segment, the Sensor business segment is our sole reportable segment under the guidelines established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) for disclosures about segments of an enterprise. During fiscal 2009, the Company realigned its operating structure to facilitate better focus on cross-selling of the differing sensor products and to better address business conditions. This resulted in the elimination of the three business group structure and the creation of one operating segment. Accordingly, the Company continues to have one single reporting segment. Management continually assesses the Company’s operating structure, and this structure could be modified further based on future circumstances and business conditions. 9 Geographic information for revenues based on country from which invoiced, and long-lived assets based on country of location, which includes property, plant and equipment, but excludes intangible assets and goodwill, net of related depreciation and amortization follows: For the years ended March 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net Sales: United States $ 74,882 $ 93,647 $ 107,734 France 36,179 28,110 28,021 Germany 15,209 15,375 19,323 Ireland 20,815 12,041 12,969 Switzerland 11,196 13,070 4,396 China 51,329 41,700 55,940 Total: $ 209,610 $ 203,943 $ 228,383 Long Lived Assets: United States $ 7,010 $ 7,754 $ 6,624 France 7,940 7,860 6,808 Germany 2,334 2,253 2,817 Ireland 3,311 3,434 4,263 Switzerland 1,735 1,918 2,418 China 22,465 23,656 17,785 Total: $ 44,795 $ 46,875 $ 40,715 CUSTOMERS We sell a wide variety of sensor products throughout the world to a broad range of end-user markets and customers. We design, manufacture and market sensors for original equipment manufacturer applications and for end users who use them for instrumentation and test applications. Our extensive customer base consists of manufacturers of electronic, automotive, medical, military, industrial, and consumer products. We have developed our strong market position due to, among other factors, our long-standing customer relationships, our competitive cost structure, and our geographic proximity to customers with our engineering, sourcing and manufacturing facilities located in North America, Europe and Asia. Our largest customer, Sensata, a large automotive sensor supplier, accounted for approximately 16% of our net sales during fiscal 2010, approximately 14% of our net sales during fiscal 2009, and approximately 18% of our net sales during fiscal 2008. At March 31, 2010, the trade receivable with our largest customer was approximately $3,651. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. SALES AND DISTRIBUTION We sell our sensor products through a combination of experienced regional sales managers, distributors and (generally) exclusive relationships with outside sales representatives throughout the world. Our engineering teams work directly with our global customers to tailor our sensors to meet their specific application requirements. We sell our products primarily in North America, Asia and Western Europe. The percentage of our international sales relative to our overall business has grown with recent acquisitions. In addition, we believe the growing Asian market represents a significant opportunity for our business. Sales invoiced from foreign countries accounted for approximately 64%, 54% and 53% of net sales for the fiscal years ended March, 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. SUPPLIERS We procure components and finished products from a variety of suppliers as needed through purchase orders. We actively manage this process to ensure component quality, steady supply and best costing, while managing hazardous materials content for compliance with European Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (“ROHS”) regulations. 10 Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including steel, copper, cast iron, electronic components, aluminum, and plastics. We purchase raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world. No single raw material supplier is material, although some of the components we use require particular specifications where a limited number of suppliers exist that can supply such components, including wafer suppliers. Market forces, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, can cause significant fluctuations in the costs of steel and petroleum-based products. We have attempted to mitigate the impact of cost increases through supply-chain initiatives or passing a portion of these increases on to customers in the form of price increases. There have been no raw material shortages that have had a material adverse effect on our business as a whole, although over the last two years, the prices of raw materials have been volatile and for several types of raw materials, prices increased sharply prior to the recession in 2008 before declining in late 2008 and have since stabilized. For a further discussion of risks related to the materials and components required for our operations, please refer to “Foreign Operations” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our research and development efforts are focused on expanding our core technologies, improving our existing products by enhancing functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability, developing new products and designing custom sensors for specific customer applications. To maintain and improve our competitive position, our research, design, and engineering teams work in close association with customers to design custom sensors for specific applications. We believe that once a customer has designed one of our sensors into their products, the cost and time of switching to another supplier is high. Research and development costs approximated $10,626 or 5.1% of net sales for fiscal 2010, $10,826 or 5.3% of net sales for fiscal 2009, and $9,852 or 4.3% of net sales for fiscal 2008. We expect to continue to make significant investment in research and development in order to provide innovative new products to our customers and to maintain and improve our competitive position. Customer funded research and development was $2,008, $1,451, and $1,018 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. COMPETITION The global market for sensors includes many diverse products and technologies, is highly fragmented and is subject to moderate to high pricing pressures, depending on the end markets and level of customization. Most of our competitors are small independent companies or divisions of large corporations such as Danaher, General Electric, Schneider-Electric, Sensata and Honeywell. Many of the divisions of these larger corporations are also customers. The principal elements of competition in the sensor market are technology and production capability, price, quality, service, and the ability to design unique applications to meet specific customer needs. Although we believe that we compete favorably, new product introductions by our competitors could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance for our existing products. If competitors introduce more technologically advanced products, the demand for our products would likely be reduced. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely in part on patents to protect our intellectual property. We own 65 United States utility and design patents and 76 foreign patents to protect our rights in certain applications of our core technology. We have 52 patent applications pending. These patent applications may never result in issued patents. Even if these applications result in patents being issued, taken together with our existing patents, they may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary rights, or they may prove unenforceable. We have not obtained patents for all of our innovations, nor do we plan to do so. We also rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, we seek to protect our proprietary information by using confidentiality agreements with certain employees, sales representatives, consultants, advisors, customers and others. We cannot be certain that these agreements will adequately protect our proprietary rights in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure, that our employees, sales representatives, consultants, advisors, customers or others will maintain the confidentiality of such proprietary information, or that our competitors will not otherwise learn about or independently develop such proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized third parties may copy aspects of our products, violate our patents or use our proprietary information. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The loss of any material trademark, trade name, trade secret, patent right, or copyright could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 We believe that our products do not infringe on the rights of third parties. However, we cannot be certain that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future or that any such assertion will not result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to third party intellectual property. In addition, we cannot be certain that such licenses will be available on reasonable terms or at all, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. For a discussion of risks related to intellectual property, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” FOREIGN OPERATIONS Our products are manufactured and marketed worldwide. Our geographic diversity enables us to leverage our cost structure and supply-chain, promotes economies of scale, and affords a broad and diverse sales base. We manufacture a large portion of our sensor products in Shenzhen, China. Sensors are also manufactured at our U.S. facilities in Hampton, Virginia, Dayton, Ohio and Fremont, California, as well as our European facilities in Galway, Ireland, Toulouse, France, Les Clayes-sous-Bois, France, Fontenay, France, Druex, France, Dortmund, Germany and Bevaix, Switzerland. The Company also has a joint venture in Japan. With the acquisition of Atexis, a range of our temperature sensors are manufactured at our Chengdu, China facility. A large portion of our NTC thermistors, discrete and probe assemblies are manufactured in China by Betacera Inc., a subcontractor with a long-standing contractual relationship with the Company. Many of our products contain key components that are obtained from a limited number of sources. These concentrations in external and foreign sources of supply present risks of interruption for reasons beyond our control, including political and other uncertainties regarding China. A substantial portion of our revenues are priced in United States dollars. Most of our costs and expenses are also priced in United States dollars, with the remainder priced in Chinese renminbi (“RMB”), Euros, Swiss francs and Japanese yen. Accordingly, the competitiveness of our products relative to products produced locally (in foreign markets) may be affected by the performance of the United States dollar compared with that of our foreign customers’ currencies. We are exposed to foreign currency transaction and translation losses, which might result from adverse fluctuations in the value of the Euro, Chinese RMB, Swiss franc, and Japanese yen. The Company’s exposure to the Hong Kong dollar mainly relates to the functional currency for Kenabell Holding Limited, the Company’s primary foreign holding company. The following table details annual consolidated net sales and the respective amount as a percentage of consolidated net sales invoiced from our facilities within and outside of the U.S. for the previous three years, as well as the U.S. dollar equivalent of net assets for the respective functional currencies: For the years ended March 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net sales: U.S. facilities $ 74,882 $ 93,647 $ 107,734 U.S. facilities % of sales 36 % 46 % 47 % Non-U.S. facilities $ 134,728 $ 110,296 $ 120,649 Non-U.S. facilities % of sales 64 % 54 % 53 % Net assets (liabilities): U.S. dollar $ 59,117 $ 51,640 $ 49,082 Chinese renminbi 14,862 22,419 17,306 Hong Kong dollar 75,301 61,588 63,827 Euro 14,998 18,273 19,562 Japanese yen 2,117 2,360 3,787 Swiss franc 601 996 2,225 12 The overall increase in the level of net sales invoiced from non-U.S. facilities mainly reflects, among other things, the acquisition of companies based in Europe. The Chinese RMB or RMB was relatively stable in fiscal 2010, but appreciated 2.5% and 9.0% during 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company has more expenditures in RMB than sales denominated in RMB, and as such, when the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the RMB, our operating profits decrease. Based on our net exposure of RMB to U.S. dollars for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 and forecast information for fiscal 2011, we estimate a negative operating income impact of approximately $174 for every 1% appreciation in RMB against the U.S. dollar (assuming no price increases passed to customers, and no associated cost increases or currency hedging). We continue to consider various alternatives to hedge this exposure, and we are attempting to manage this exposure through, among other things, pricing and monitoring balance sheet exposures for payables and receivables, as well as utilizing foreign currency contracts as a hedging strategy. The Company’s French, Irish and German subsidiaries have more sales in Euros than expenses in Euros and the Company’s Swiss subsidiary has more expenses in Swiss franc than sales, and as such, if the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the Euro and Swiss franc, our operating profits would increase in France, Ireland and Germany but decline in Switzerland. Based on the net exposures of Euros and Swiss francs to the U.S. dollar for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 and forecast information for fiscal 2011, we estimate a negative operating income impact of $12 in Euros and a positive operating income impact of approximately $30 for every 1% appreciation in the Euro and Swiss franc, respectively, relative to the U.S. dollar (assuming no price increases passed to customers, and no associated cost increases or currency hedging). There can be no assurance that these currencies will remain stable or will fluctuate to our benefit. To manage our exposure to potential foreign currency, transaction and translation risks, we may purchase foreign currency exchange contracts, currency options, or other derivative instruments, provided such instruments may be obtained at prices considered suitable. We do have a number of foreign exchange currency contracts, as disclosed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of risks related to foreign operations and foreign currencies, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” EMPLOYEES As of March 31, 2010, we had 2,520 employees, including 289 in the United States, 503 in the European Union, and 1,728 in Asia. As of March 31, 2010, 1,500 employees were engaged in manufacturing, 637 were engaged in administration, 291 were engaged in engineering and 92 were engaged in sales and marketing. Our employees in the U.S., Europe and Asia are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our employee relations are good. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS We are subject to comprehensive and changing foreign, federal, state, and local environmental requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances, as well as those relating climate change. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with current environmental requirements. Nevertheless, we use hazardous substances in our operations, and as is the case with manufacturers in general, if a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our properties, we may be held liable, and may be required to pay the cost of remedying the condition. Additionally, as climate change regulations develop, the direct and indirect implications, including legal, technological, political and scientific costs, will continue to evolve the amount of any liability or added costs resulting from the foregoing matters and could be material. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with the European and UK Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) environmental directive which became effective July 1, 2006 for "the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.” Our business and our customers may be subject to requirements under the European Commission’s Proposal for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”). REACH imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. Additionally, substances of high concern are subject to an authorization process per application. Authorization may result in restrictions in the use of products by application or even prohibitions on the manufacture or importation of products. REACH came into effect on June 1, 2007. The regulations impose additional burdens on chemical producers, importers, downstream users of chemical substances and preparations, and the entire supply chain. Our manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union will require us to incur additional compliance costs. For a discussion of risks related to environmental matters, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 13 EXPORT/IMPORT COMPLIANCE We are required to comply with various export/import control and economic sanctions laws, including: • The International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) administered by the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which, among other things, imposes license requirements on the export from the United States of defense articles and defense services (which are items specifically designed or adapted for a military application and/or listed on the United States Munitions List); • the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which, among other things, impose licensing requirements on the export or re-export of certain dual-use goods, technology and software (which are items that potentially have both commercial and military applications); • the regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, which implement economic sanctions imposed against designated countries, governments and persons based on United States foreign policy and national security considerations; and • the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Foreign governments have also implemented similar export and import control regulations, which may affect our operations or transactions subject to their jurisdictions. For a discussion of risks related to export/import control and economic sanctions laws, as well as the status of our disclosure of certain non-compliance with export regulations, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” BACKLOG At March 31, 2010, the dollar amount of backlog orders believed to be firm was approximately $77,609. We include in backlog those orders that have been accepted from customers that have not been filled or shipped and are supported with a purchase order. It is expected that the majority of these orders will be shipped during the next 12 months. At March 31, 2009, our backlog of unfilled orders was approximately $55,865. We believe that backlog may not be indicative of actual sales for the current fiscal year or any succeeding period. WORKING CAPITAL We maintain adequate working capital to support our business requirements. There are no unusual industry practices or requirements relating to working capital items. SEASONALITY As a whole, there is no material seasonality in our sales. However, general economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results, and certain end-use markets experience certain seasonality. For example, European sales are often lower in summer months and OEM sales are often stronger immediately preceding and following the introduction of new products. 14 AVAILABLE INFORMATION We maintain an Internet website at the following address: www.meas-spec.com. The information on or that may be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available on or through our website certain reports and amendments to those reports that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. We make this information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Careful consideration should be given to the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters, climate change or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. An investment in our common stock is speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. No investment in our common stock should be made by any person who is not in a position to lose the entire amount of such investment. In addition to being subject to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks described below under “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” an investment in our common stock is subject to the risks and uncertainties described below. OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS HAVE BEEN AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE FINANCIAL SITUATION AND WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. The financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in financial markets, decreased consumer confidence, high unemployment and reduced corporate profits and capital spending. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and have caused, and may continue to cause, our customers to reduce spending on our products. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the global economic crisis or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. If the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. CONTINUED FUNDAMENTAL CHANGES IN CERTAIN INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE HAVE HAD AND COULD CONTINUE TO HAVE ADVERSE EFFECTS ON OUR BUSINESS. Our products are sold to several industries, including automobile manufacturers, manufacturers of commercial and residential HVAC systems, as well as to manufacturers in the refrigeration, aerospace, medical, and industrial markets, among others. These are global industries, and they are experiencing various degrees of contraction, growth and consolidation. Customers in these industries are located in every major geographic market. As a result, our customers are affected by changes in global and regional economic conditions, as well as by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. This, in turn, affects overall demand and prices for our products sold to these industries. For example, the significant economic decline during fiscal 2009 resulted in a reduction in automotive production and in the sales of many of the other products manufactured by our customers that use our products, and has had an adverse effect on our results of operations. This negative outlook continued into fiscal 2010 and may have continued impact in fiscal 2011. In addition, many of our products are platform-specific—for example, sensors are designed for certain of our HVAC manufacturer customers according to specifications to fit a particular model. Our success may, to a certain degree, be connected with the success or failure of one or more of the manufacturers or industries to which we sell products, either in general or with respect to one or more of the platforms or systems for which our products are designed. 15 OUR INDEBTEDNESS MAY LIMIT OUR USE OF OUR CASH FLOW AND CHANGES IN THE CREDIT MARKETS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE AVAILABILITY TO REFINANCE AND THE COST OF ADDITIONAL DEBT. We have incurred debt to finance most of our acquisitions, and we may also incur additional debt. Our debt level and related debt service obligations and debt covenants could have negative consequences, including: • requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes; • reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; • reducing our ability to make acquisitions; • exposing us to interest rate risk, since a large portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; and • reducing our ability to refinance our debt, which could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may incur more debt in the future. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. In addition, further deterioration in the credit markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of future debt and refinancing. OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE DEBT COVENANTS IN OUR CREDIT AGREEMENT, INCLUDING AS A RESULT OF EVENTS BEYOND OUR CONTROL, COULD RESULT IN AN EVENT OF DEFAULT WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. Our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including minimum Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments as defined in the credit agreement and amendments to the credit agreement), maximum leverage ratio (debt divided by Adjusted EBITDA) and maximum capital expenditures. Our credit facility contains other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on the payment of dividends, repurchase of common stock, acquisitions without lender approval and creation of liens. Sufficiently adverse financial performance could result in default under certain future ratio levels. If there were an event of default under our credit facility that was not cured or waived, the amounts outstanding could become due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings if accelerated upon an event of default and the Company may not be able to refinance our indebtedness. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. IF WE DO NOT DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MEET THE NEEDS OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND OUR NET SALES MAY DECLINE. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and introduce new sensor products and product line extensions. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products in a timely manner, our net sales could suffer. The development of new products involves highly complex processes, and at times we have experienced delays in the introduction of new products. Since many of our sensor products are designed for specific applications, we must frequently develop new products jointly with our customers. We are dependent on the ability of our customers to successfully develop, manufacture and market products that include our sensors. Successful product development and introduction of new products depends on a number of factors, including the following: · accurate product specification; · timely completion of design; 16 · achievement of manufacturing yields; · timely, quality and cost-effective production; and · effective marketing. WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL NET SALES AND OPERATIONS OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, INCLUDING SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS IN CHINA AND EUROPE THAT EXPOSE US TO INTERNATIONAL RISKS. Our international operations represent a substantial portion of our net sales, total assets and net assets. Our foreign operating subsidiaries are in China, Europe, Hong Kong and Japan, and as such, we are exposed to, among other things, foreign currency transaction and translation losses with the Chinese RMB, Hong Kong dollar, Euro, Japanese yen and Swiss franc. Our foreign subsidiaries’ operations reflect intercompany transfers of costs and expenses, including interest on intercompany receivables, at amounts established by us. We manufacture a large portion of our sensor products in China. Our China subsidiary is subject to certain government regulations, including currency exchange controls, which limit the subsidiary’s ability to pay cash dividends or lend funds to us. The inability to operate in China or the imposition of significant restrictions, taxes, or tariffs on our operations in China would impair our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective manner and could reduce our profitability significantly. Risks specific to our international operations include: · political conflict and instability in the relationships among Hong Kong, Taiwan, China, the United States and in our target international markets; · political instability and economic turbulence in Asian and European markets; · changes in United States and foreign regulatory requirements resulting in burdensome controls, tariffs and import and export restrictions; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could make our products more expensive as stated in local currency, as compared to competitive products priced in the local currency; · risks relating to the enforceability of contracts and other rights or collectability of accounts receivable in foreign countries; · delays or cancellation of production and delivery of our products due to the logistics of international shipping, which could damage our relationships with our customers; · a recurrence of the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) or Avian Flu and the associated risks to our operations in China; and · legislative initiatives, including tax legislation and other changes in the Company’s tax position, including tax policy changes in China, which could affect the profitability of our operations in China. For example, if the Company does not continue to receive special tax status, our income tax rates could increase to 25%. COMMODITY PRICES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices. We are a buyer of steel, non-ferrous metals and petroleum-based products, as well as other commodities required for the manufacture of products. As a result, changes in commodity prices and our inability to pass such increases on to our customers may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN AND PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND AVOID CLAIMS OF INFRINGEMENT OR MISUSE OF THIRD PARTY INTELECTUAL PROPERTY. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our operations. The steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated or circumvented, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. In addition, from time to time in the usual course of business, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. In the event of a successful claim against us, we could lose our rights to needed technology or be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights, any of which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Even where we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. WE ARE SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF LITIGATION IN THE COURSE OF OUR BUSINESS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are subject to or could be subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters and acquisition-related matters. Some of these lawsuits could include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition, operations and results of operations. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. WE MAY INCUR MATERIAL LOSSES AND COSTS AS A RESULT OF PRODUCT LIABILITY AND WARRANTY, PRODUCT DEFECTS AND RECALL CLAIMS BROUGHT AGAINST US. We have been and may continue to be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. We do not generally have insurance coverage for exposures such as recall and warranty. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty, recall claims or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products could lead to injury or other adverse events. If any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of the underlying end product, particularly if the defect or the alleged defect relates to product safety. Depending on the terms under which we supply products, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of these products under warranties, when the product supplied did not perform as represented. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. Our costs associated with satisfying product liabilities could be material. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO REGULATION, AND FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THOSE REGULATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND REPUTATION. We are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental entities and other entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: • Certain of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot give assurance that we have been or will be at all times in substantial compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. 18 • We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. • Exports of technology necessary to develop and manufacture certain of the Company’s products are subject to U.S. export control laws and similar laws of other jurisdictions, and the Company may be subject to adverse regulatory consequences, including government oversight of facilities and export transactions, monetary penalties and other sanctions for violations of these laws. All exports of technology necessary to develop and manufacture the Company’s products are subject to U.S. export control laws. In certain instances, these regulations may prohibit the Company from developing or manufacturing certain of its products for specific end applications outside the United States. In late May 2009, the Company became aware that certain of its piezo products when designed or modified for use with or incorporation into a defense article are subject the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ("ITAR") administered by the United States Department of State. Certain technical data relating to the design of the products may have been exported to China without authorization from the U.S. Department of State. As required by the ITAR, the Company conducted a thorough investigation into the matter. Based on the investigation, the Company filed in December 2009 a final voluntary disclosure with the U.S. Department of State relating to that matter, as well as to exports and re-exports of other ITAR-controlled technical data and/or products to Canada, India, Ireland, France, Germany, Italy, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, South Korea, Spain and the United Kingdom, which disclosure has since been supplemented. In the course of the investigation, the Company also became aware that certain of its products may have been exported from France without authorization from the relevant French authorities. The Company investigated this matter thoroughly. In December 2009, it also voluntarily submitted to French customs authorities a list of products that may have required prior export authorization. In addition, the Company has taken steps to mitigate the impact of potential violations, and we are in the process of strengthening our export-related controls and procedures. The U.S. Department of State and other regulatory authorities encourage voluntary disclosures and generally afford parties mitigating credit under such circumstances. The Company nevertheless could be subject to potential regulatory consequences related to these possible violations ranging from a no-action letter, government oversight of facilities and export transactions, monetary penalties, and in extreme cases, debarment from government contracting, denial of export privileges and/or criminal penalties. It is not possible at this time to predict the precise timing or probable outcome of any potential regulatory consequences related to these possible violations. • Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), by counterpart agencies of other countries and by regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials. Violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products can lead to warning letters, declining sales, recalls, seizures, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre-market notification rescissions. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization (ISO), and failure to comply with these rules can also adversely impact our business. • We also have agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. Our agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. 19 In addition, failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS WE SERVE IS INTENSE AND COULD REDUCE OUR NET SALES AND HARM OUR BUSINESS. Highly fragmented markets and high levels of competition characterize our business. Despite recent consolidations, including the acquisition of several smaller competitors of ours by larger competitors like General Electric, Honeywell, Schneider-Electric and Danaher Corporation, the sensor industry remains highly fragmented. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have a number of significant advantages over us, including: · greater financial, technical, marketing, and manufacturing resources; · preferred vendor status with our existing and potential customer base; · more extensive distribution channels and a broader geographic scope; · larger customer bases; and · a faster response time to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. OUR TRANSFER PRICING PRACTICES MAY BE CHALLENGED, WHICH MAY SUBJECT US TO HIGHER TAXES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. Transfer pricing refers to the prices that one member of a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services, or the use of intellectual property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those charged by unrelated companies dealing with each other at arm’s length. If one or more of the countries in which our affiliated companies are located believes that transfer prices were manipulated by our affiliate companies in a way that distorts the true taxable income of the companies, the laws of countries where our affiliated companies are located could require us to re-determine transfer prices and thereby reallocate the income of our affiliate companies in order to reflect these transfer prices. Any reallocation of income from one of our companies in a lower tax jurisdiction to an affiliated company in a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher overall tax liability to us. Moreover, if the country from which the income is being reallocated does not agree to the reallocation, the same income could be subject to taxation by both countries. We have adopted transfer-pricing procedures with our subsidiaries to regulate inter-company transfers. Our procedures call for the transfer of goods, services, or intellectual property from one company to a related company at prices that we believe are at arm’s length. We have established these procedures due to the fact that some of our assets, such as intellectual property developed in the United States, are transferred among our affiliated companies. If the United States Internal Revenue Service or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully require changes to our transfer pricing practices, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. Any determination of income reallocation or modification of transfer pricing laws can result in an income tax assessment on the portion of income deemed to be derived from the United States or other taxing jurisdiction. PRESSURE BY OUR CUSTOMERS TO REDUCE PRICES MAY CAUSE OUR NET SALES OR PROFIT MARGINS TO DECLINE. Our customers are under pressure to reduce prices of their products. Therefore, we expect to experience pressure from our customers to reduce the prices of our products. We believe that we must reduce our manufacturing costs and obtain larger orders to offset declining average sales prices. If we are unable to offset declining average sales prices, our gross profit margins will decline. 20 WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONSUMMATE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS OR SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE ACQUISTIONS INTO OUR BUSINESS AND INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS IN OUR ACQUISTION AGREEMENTS BY WHICH WE HAVE ACQUIRED COMPANIES MAY NOT FULLY PROTECT US AND MAY RESULT IN UNEXPECTED LIABILITIES. We have made fourteen acquisitions since fiscal 2005. As a part of our business strategy, we may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions, although acquisitions require lender approval under our credit agreement. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. Our inability to consummate acquisitions at our prior rate could negatively impact our growth rate. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our growth strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete proposed acquisitions that will not generate benefits for us. In addition, with future acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash for all or a portion of the purchase price. We could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause significant stockholder dilution. Our prior acquisitions and any future acquisitions may not ultimately help us achieve our strategic goals and may pose other risks to us. Conversely, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions at a similar rate as to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate. Our ability to grow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings. In addition, changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or any further deterioration in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions or change the accounting treatment for acquisitions. For example, as a result of the recently issued standards for accounting for Business Combinations, which were effective for the Company beginning April 1, 2009, we will be required to expense certain acquisition-related items that under previous accounting were capitalized as part of the purchase price. As a result of our previous acquisitions, we have added several different decentralized operating and accounting systems, resulting in a complex reporting environment. While we strive to quickly integrate all of our acquisitions to one enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform and management reporting/analysis information systems, we expect that we will need to continue to modify our accounting policies, internal controls, procedures and compliance programs to provide consistency across all of our operations, in order to increase efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate visibility into our decentralized operations. We are entitled to certain indemnification rights under the agreements by which we have acquired companies. If circumstances arise under which we believe we are entitled to indemnification, the indemnifying party may not agree with our assertion as to our rights to indemnification under the circumstances and we may increase our accruals and corresponding costs. OUR REPUTATION AND OUR ABILITY TO DO BUSINESS MAY BE IMPAIRED BY IMPROPER CONDUCT BY ANY OF OUR EMPLOYEES, AGENTS OR BUSINESS PARTNERS. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, competition, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation. 21 CHANGES IN OUR TAX RATES OR EXPOSURE TO ADDITIONAL INCOME TAX LIABILITES COULD AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. IN ADDITION, AUDITS BY TAX AUTHORITIES COULD RESULT IN ADDITIONAL TAX PAYMENTS FOR PRIOR PERIODS. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by foreign tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. WE HAVE RECORDED A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS, WHICH MAY BECOME IMPAIRED IN THE FUTURE. We have a significant amount of deferred tax assets, mainly resulting from previously incurred net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). Accounting guidance for valuation allowances for deferred tax assets is strictly based on the evaluation of positive and negative evidence which can be objectively verified as to whether it is more likely than not the NOLs will be utilized, and if positive evidence does not outweigh negative evidence, a valuation allowance is required. Based on such assessment, we may have to record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets. Impairment of deferred tax assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, significant negative industry or economic trends, adverse changes in laws or regulations, decrease in projected future cash flows, and a variety of other factors. In the future, we may have an impairment of deferred tax assets, which could result in material impairment charges causing an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. IF WE CANNOT OBTAIN SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES OF MATERIALS, COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT FOR OUR MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES ON A TIMELY BASIS AND AT COMPETITIVE PRICING AND QUALITY, OR IF OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY DOES NOT MEET DEMAND, OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS WILL SUFFER. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Some of our businesses purchase their requirements of certain of these items from sole or limited source suppliers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, especially within the current challenging economic environment, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed our production requirements or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. OUR INABILITY TO HIRE, TRAIN AND RETAIN A SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF SKILLED OFFICERS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES COULD IMPEDE OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY. If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, we may not be able to achieve cost savings and other initiatives to profitably grow our business, effectively integrate acquired businesses, or realize anticipated results from those businesses. 22 WE DEPEND ON THIRD PARTIES FOR CERTAIN TRANSPORTATION, WAREHOUSING AND LOGISTIC SERVICES. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture. In particular, a significant portion of the goods we manufacture are transported to different countries, requiring sophisticated warehousing, logistics and other resources. If any of the countries from which we transport products were to suffer delays in exporting manufactured goods, or if any of our third party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell those products at full value, or at all. Similarly, if any of our raw materials could not be delivered to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products in response to customer demand. IF WE SUFFER LOSS TO OUR FACILITIES, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS, OR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM DUE TO A CATASTROPHE, OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. Our facilities, information technology systems and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. WE HAVE RECORDED A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF GOODWILL, IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS, AND OTHER LONG-LIVED ASSETS WHICH MAY BECOME IMPAIRED IN THE FUTURE. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. Impairment of goodwill, identifiable intangible assets and other long-lived assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, significant negative industry or economic trends, significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period resulting in a significant change in market capitalization relative to net book value, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in laws or regulations, decrease in projected future cash flows, and a variety of other factors. The Company may have in the future an impairment of goodwill, identifiable intangible assets, and other long-lived assets, which could result in material impairment charges causing an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 