risk factors listed from time to time in our SEC reports, including those described below under “Risk Factors”. This list is not exhaustive. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements after the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. No investment in our common stock should be made by any person who is not in a position to lose the entire amount of such investment. 14 In addition to being subject to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks described below under “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” an investment in our common stock is subject to the risks and uncertainties described below. Other risks include the impact of new or changes to accounting and reporting rules and standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and other accounting oversight bodies, the impact of rulings by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state tax authorities, and the enactment of additional state, federal or foreign regulatory and tax laws and regulations pertaining to our subsidiaries and foreign investments. IF WE DO NOT DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MEET THE NEEDS OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND OUR NET SALES MAY DECLINE. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and introduce new sensor products and product line extensions. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products in a timely manner, our net sales will suffer. The development of new products involves highly complex processes, and at times we have experienced delays in the introduction of new products. Since many of our sensor products are designed for specific applications, we must frequently develop new products jointly with our customers. We are dependent on the ability of our customers to successfully develop, manufacture and market products that include our sensors. Successful product development and introduction of new products depends on a number of factors, including the following: · accurate product specification; · timely completion of design; · achievement of manufacturing yields; · timely, quality and cost-effective production; and · effective marketing. RAPID GROWTH BRINGS RISKS AND CHALLENGES ASSOCIATED WITH GROWTH. The rapid growth of our business through a combination of organic and acquisitive means creates a unique set of challenges which include: · managing inventory from acquired companies as well as inventory required for new programs; · prioritizing the right engineering programs so new opportunities are harvested without losing business in smaller, more stable lines of business; · managing a growing end user business alongside a robust and larger OEM business; · building infrastructure and the management team to support growth of the business in new geographies, especially Europe and Asia; · maintaining a pipeline of increasingly larger opportunities to achieve comparable year over year growth rates; and · maintaining a rapidly changing balance sheet to optimize debt to equity and working capital ratios. WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL NET SALES AND OPERATIONS OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, INCLUDING SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS IN CHINA AND EUROPE, THAT EXPOSE US TO INTERNATIONAL RISKS. Our international sales accounted for approximately 46.8% and 43.4% of our net sales in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At March 31, 2007, our foreign subsidiaries’ assets totaled $163,758, of which $34,717 was in China, $50,205 was in Hong Kong and $78,836 was in Europe. We are subject to the risks of foreign currency transaction and translation losses, which might result from fluctuations in the values of the Chinese renminbi, the Hong Kong dollar and the Euro against the United States dollar. At March 31, 2007, we had net assets of $23,810 subject to fluctuations in the value of the Chinese renminbi, net assets of $40,981 subject to fluctuations in the value of the Hong Kong dollar, and net assets of $12,285 subject to fluctuations in the Euro. Our foreign subsidiaries’ operations reflect intercompany transfers of costs and expenses, including interest on intercompany trade receivables, at amounts established by us. We manufacture the majority of our sensor products in China. Our China subsidiary is subject to certain government regulations, including currency exchange controls, which limit the subsidiary’s ability to pay cash dividends or lend funds to us. The inability to operate in China or the imposition of significant restrictions, taxes, or tariffs on our operations in China would impair our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective manner and could reduce our profitability significantly. 15 Risks specific to our international operations include: · political conflict and instability in the relationships among Hong-Kong, Taiwan, China, the United States and in our target international markets; · political instability and economic turbulence in Asian markets; · changes in United States and foreign regulatory requirements resulting in burdensome controls, tariffs and import and export restrictions; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could make our products more expensive as stated in local currency, as compared to competitive products priced in the local currency; · enforceability of contracts and other rights or collectability of accounts receivable in foreign countries due to distance and different legal systems; · delays or cancellation of production and delivery of our products due to the logistics of international shipping, which could damage our relationships with our customers; · a recurrence of the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) or Avian Flu and the associated risks to our operations in China; and · tax policy change in China, which could affect the profitability of our operations in China. China has enacted higher tax rates effective January 1, 2008. If the Company does not receive the annual special tax status in China, our rates could be between 15% and 25%. COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS WE SERVE IS INTENSE AND COULD REDUCE OUR NET SALES AND HARM OUR BUSINESS. Highly fragmented markets and high levels of competition characterize our business. Despite recent consolidations, including the acquisition of several smaller competitors of ours by larger competitors like General Electric, Honeywell, Schneider-Electric and Danaher Corporation, the sensor industry remains highly fragmented. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have a number of significant advantages over us, including: · greater financial, technical, marketing, and manufacturing resources; · preferred vendor status with our existing and potential customer base; · more extensive distribution channels and a broader geographic scope; · larger customer bases; and · a faster response time to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. OUR TRANSFER PRICING PROCEDURES MAY BE CHALLENGED, WHICH MAY SUBJECT US TO HIGHER TAXES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. Transfer pricing refers to the prices that one member of a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services, or the use of intellectual property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those charged by unrelated companies dealing with each other at arm’s length. If one or more of the countries in which our affiliated companies are located believes that transfer prices were manipulated by our affiliate companies in a way that distorts the true taxable income of the companies, the laws of countries where our affiliated companies are located could require us to re-determine transfer prices and thereby reallocate the income of our affiliate companies in order to reflect these transfer prices. Any reallocation of income from one of our companies in a lower tax jurisdiction to an affiliated company in a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher overall tax liability to us. 16 Moreover, if the country from which the income is being reallocated does not agree to the reallocation, the same income could be subject to taxation by both countries. We have adopted transfer-pricing procedures with our subsidiaries to regulate inter-company transfers. Our procedures call for the transfer of goods, services, or intellectual property from one company to a related company at prices that we believe are arm’s length. We have established these procedures due to the fact that some of our assets, such as intellectual property developed in the United States, are transferred among our affiliated companies. If the United States Internal Revenue Service or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully require changes to our transfer pricing practices, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. Any determination of income reallocation or modification of transfer pricing laws can result in an income tax assessment on the portion of income deemed to be derived from the United States or other taxing jurisdiction. PRESSURE BY OUR CUSTOMERS TO REDUCE PRICES MAY CAUSE OUR NET SALES OR PROFIT MARGINS TO DECLINE. Our customers are under pressure to reduce prices of their products. Therefore, we expect to experience pressure from our customers to reduce the prices of our products. We believe that we must reduce our manufacturing costs and obtain larger orders to offset declining average sales prices. If we are unable to offset declining average sales prices, our gross profit margins will decline. AS PART OF OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY, WE HAVE ENTERED INTO AND MAY ENTER INTO OR SEEK TO ENTER INTO BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ACQUISITIONS THAT MAY BE DIFFICULT AND COSTLY TO INTEGRATE, DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS, DILUTE STOCKHOLDER VALUE OR DIVERT MANAGEMENT’S ATTENTION. We made ten acquisitions during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005. As a part of our business strategy, we may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our growth strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete proposed acquisitions that will not generate benefits for us. In addition, with future acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. We could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause significant stockholder dilution. Our prior acquisitions and any future acquisitions may not ultimately help us achieve our strategic goals and may pose other risks to us. As a result of our previous acquisitions, we have added several different decentralized operating and accounting systems, resulting in a complex reporting environment. While we strive to integrate all of our acquired companies except for BetaTHERM into our enterprise resource planning (ERP) and management reporting/analysis information systems as quickly as possible after their acquisition, we expect that we will need to continue to modify our accounting policies, internal controls, procedures and compliance programs to provide consistency across all of our operations, in order to increase efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate visibility into our decentralized operations. BetaTHERM will remain on the ERP which existed prior to acquisition, because this system’s functionality was determined to be within the established requirements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 ITEM 