Item 1A. Risk Factors Careful consideration should be given to the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters, climate change or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. An investment in our common stock is speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. No investment in our common stock should be made by any person who is not in a position to lose the entire amount of such investment. In addition to being subject to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks described below under “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” an investment in our common stock is subject to the risks and uncertainties described below. Our operating results and financial conditions have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the financial situation and worldwide economic conditions. The impact from the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in financial markets, decreased consumer confidence, high unemployment and impacted corporate profits and capital spending. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and have caused, and may continue to cause, our customers to reduce spending on our products. We cannot predict the strength of the economic recovery. If the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Continued fundamental changes in certain industries in which we operate have had and could continue to have adverse effects on our business. Our products are sold to several industries, including automobile manufacturers, manufacturers of commercial and residential HVAC systems, as well as to manufacturers in the refrigeration, aerospace, medical, and industrial markets, among others. These are global industries, and they are experiencing various degrees of contraction, growth and consolidation. Customers in these industries are located in every major geographic market. As a result, our customers are affected by changes in global and regional economic conditions, as well as by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. This, in turn, affects overall demand and prices for our products sold to these industries. In addition, many of our products are platform-specific—for example, sensors are designed for certain of our HVAC manufacturer customers according to specifications to fit a particular model. Our success may, to a certain degree, be connected with the success or failure of one or more of the manufacturers or industries to which we sell products, either in general or with respect to one or more of the platforms or systems for which our products are designed. Our indebtedness may limit our use of our cash flow and changes in the credit markets may adversely affect the availability to refinance and the cost of additional debt. We have incurred debt to finance most of our acquisitions, and we may also incur additional debt. Our debt level and related debt service obligations and debt covenants could have negative consequences, including: 15 • requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes; • reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; • reducing our ability to make acquisitions; • exposing us to interest rate risk, since a large portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; and • reducing our ability to refinance our debt, which could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may incur more debt in the future. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. In addition, further deterioration in the credit markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of future debt and refinancing. If we do not develop and introduce new products in a timely manner, we may not be able to meet the needs of our customers and our net sales may decline. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and introduce new sensor products and product line extensions. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products in a timely manner, our net sales could suffer. The development of new products involves highly complex processes, and at times we have experienced delays in the introduction of new products. Since many of our sensor products are designed for specific applications, we must frequently develop new products jointly with our customers. We are dependent on the ability of our customers to successfully develop, manufacture and market products that include our sensors. Successful product development and introduction of new products depends on a number of factors, including the following: • accurate product specification; • timely completion of design; • achievement of manufacturing yields; • timely, quality and cost-effective production; and • effective marketing. We have substantial net sales and operations outside of the United States, including significant operations in China and Europe that expose us to international risks. Our international operations represent a substantial portion of our net sales, total assets and net assets. Our foreign subsidiaries are in China, Europe and Hong Kong, as well as our joint venture in Japan, and as such, we are exposed to, among other things, foreign currency transaction and translation losses with the Chinese RMB, Hong Kong dollar, Euro, Japanese yen and Swiss franc. Our foreign subsidiaries’ operations reflect intercompany transfers of costs and expenses, including interest on intercompany receivables, at amounts established by us. We manufacture a large portion of our sensor products in China. Our China subsidiary is subject to certain government regulations, including currency exchange controls, which limit the subsidiary’s ability to pay cash dividends or lend funds to us. The inability to operate in China or the imposition of significant restrictions, taxes, or tariffs on our operations in China would impair our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective manner and could reduce our profitability significantly. International economic, political, legal and business factors could affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Risks specific to our international operations include: · political conflict and instability in the relationships among Hong Kong, Taiwan, China, Europe, the United States and in our target international markets; 16 · political instability and economic turbulence in Asian and European markets; · changes in United States and foreign regulatory requirements resulting in burdensome controls, tariffs and import and export restrictions; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could make our products more expensive as stated in local currency, as compared to competitive products priced in the local currency; · risks relating to the transfer or repatriation of cash, which may be subject to certain restrictions on the transfer to another country because of currency control or other fiscal regulations; · risks relating to the enforceability of contracts and other rights or collectability of accounts receivable in foreign countries; · delays or cancellation of production and delivery of our products due to the logistics of international shipping, which could damage our relationships with our customers; · a recurrence of the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) or Avian Flu and the associated risks to our operations in China; and · legislative initiatives, including tax legislation and other changes in the Company’s tax position, including tax policy changes in China, which could affect the profitability of our operations in China. For example, if the Company does not continue to receive special tax status in China, our income tax rates could increase from 15% to 25%. Commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices. We are a buyer of steel, non-ferrous metals and petroleum-based products, as well as other commodities required for the manufacture of products. As a result, changes in commodity prices and our inability to pass such increases on to our customers may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property and avoid claims of infringement or misuse of third party intellectual property. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our operations. The steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated or circumvented, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. In addition, from time to time in the usual course of business, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. In the event of a successful claim against us, we could lose our rights to needed technology or be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights, any of which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Even where we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. 17 We are subject to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to or could be subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters and acquisition-related matters. Some of these lawsuits could include claims for punitive, consequential and compensatory damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition, operations and results of operations. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty, product defects and recall claims brought against us. We have been and may continue to be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. We do not generally have insurance coverage for exposures such as recall and warranty. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty, recall claims or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products could lead to injury or other adverse events. If any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of the underlying end product, particularly if the defect or the alleged defect relates to product safety. Depending on the terms under which we supply products, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of these products under warranties, when the product supplied did not perform as represented. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. Our costs associated with satisfying product liabilities could be material. Our business is subject to regulation, and failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental entities and other entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: • Certain of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot give assurance that we have been or will be at all times in substantial compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. • We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. • Exports of technology necessary to develop and manufacture certain of the Company’s products are subject to U.S. export control laws and similar laws of other jurisdictions, and the Company may be subject to adverse regulatory consequences, including government oversight of facilities and export transactions, monetary penalties and other sanctions for violations of these laws. All exports of technology necessary to develop and manufacture the Company’s products are subject to U.S. export control laws. In certain instances, these regulations may prohibit the Company from developing or manufacturing certain of its products for specific end applications outside the United States. In late May 2009, the Company became aware that certain of its piezo products when designed or modified for use with or incorporation into a defense article are subject the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ("ITAR") administered by the United States Department of State. Certain technical data relating to the design of the products may have been exported to China without authorization from the U.S. Department of State. As required by the ITAR, the Company conducted a thorough investigation into the matter. Based on the investigation, the Company filed in December 2009 a final voluntary disclosure with the U.S. Department of State relating to that matter, as well as to exports and re-exports of other ITAR-controlled technical data and/or products to Canada, India, Ireland, France, Germany, Italy, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, South Korea, Spain and the United Kingdom, which disclosure has since been supplemented. In the course of the investigation, the Company also became aware that certain of its products may have been exported from France without authorization from the relevant French authorities. The Company investigated this matter thoroughly. In December 2009, it also voluntarily submitted to French customs authorities a list of products that may have required prior export authorization. In addition, the Company has taken steps to mitigate the impact of potential violations, and we are in the process of strengthening our export-related controls and procedures. The U.S. Department of State and other regulatory authorities encourage voluntary disclosures and generally afford parties mitigating credit under such circumstances. The Company nevertheless could be subject to potential regulatory consequences related to these possible violations ranging from a no-action letter, government oversight of facilities and export transactions, monetary penalties, and in extreme cases, debarment from government contracting, denial of export privileges and/or criminal penalties. It is not possible at this time to predict the precise timing or probable outcome of any potential regulatory consequences related to these possible violations. 18 • Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), by counterpart agencies of other countries and by regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials. Violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products can lead to warning letters, declining sales, recalls, seizures, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre-market notification rescissions. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization (ISO), and failure to comply with these rules can also adversely impact our business. • We also have agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. Our agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. In addition, failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. Competition in the markets we serve is intense and could reduce our net sales and harm our business. Highly fragmented markets and high levels of competition characterize our business. Despite continued consolidations, including the acquisition of several smaller competitors by larger competitors, the sensor industry remains highly fragmented. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have a number of significant advantages over us, including: • Greater financial, technical, marketing, and manufacturing resources; • preferred vendor status with our existing and potential customer base; • more extensive distribution channels and a broader geographic scope; • larger customer bases; and • a faster response time to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. 19 Our transfer pricing practices may be challenged, which may subject us to higher taxes and adversely affect our earnings. Transfer pricing refers to the prices that one member of a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services, or the use of intellectual property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those charged by unrelated companies dealing with each other at arm’s length. If one or more of the countries in which our affiliated companies are located believes that transfer prices were manipulated by our affiliate companies in a way that distorts the true taxable income of the companies, the laws of countries where our affiliated companies are located could require us to re-determine transfer prices and thereby reallocate the income of our affiliate companies in order to reflect these transfer prices. Any reallocation of income from one of our companies in a lower tax jurisdiction to an affiliated company in a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher overall tax liability to us. Moreover, if the country from which the income is being reallocated does not agree to the reallocation, the same income could be subject to taxation by both countries. We have adopted transfer-pricing procedures with our subsidiaries to regulate inter-company transfers. Our procedures call for the transfer of goods, services, or intellectual property from one company to a related company at prices that we believe are at arm’s length. We have established these procedures due to the fact that some of our assets, such as intellectual property developed in the United States, are transferred among our affiliated companies. If the United States Internal Revenue Service or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully require changes to our transfer pricing practices, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. Any determination of income reallocation or modification of transfer pricing laws can result in an income tax assessment on the portion of income deemed to be derived from the United States or other taxing jurisdiction. Pressure by our customers to reduce prices may cause our net sales or profit margins to decline. Our customers are under pressure to reduce prices of their products. Therefore, we expect to experience pressure from our customers to reduce the prices of our products. We believe that we must reduce our manufacturing costs and obtain larger orders to offset declining average sales prices. If we are unable to offset declining average sales prices, our gross profit margins will decline. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate acquisitions into our business and indemnification provisions in our acquisitions agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. We have made fifteen acquisitions since fiscal 2005. As a part of our business strategy, we may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions, although acquisitions require lender approval under our credit agreement. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. Our inability to consummate acquisitions at our prior rate could negatively impact our growth rate. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our growth strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete proposed acquisitions that will not generate benefits for us. In addition, with future acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash and availability under our credit facilities for all or a portion of the purchase price. We could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause significant stockholder dilution. Our prior acquisitions and any future acquisitions may not ultimately help us achieve our strategic goals and may pose other risks to us. Conversely, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions at a similar rate as to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate. Our ability to grow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings. In addition, changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or any further deterioration in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions or change the accounting treatment for acquisitions. For example, as a result of the recently issued standards for accounting for Business Combinations, which were effective for the Company beginning April 1, 2009, we will be required to expense certain acquisition-related items that under previous accounting were capitalized as part of the purchase price. 20 As a result of our previous acquisitions, we have added several different decentralized operating and accounting systems, resulting in a complex reporting environment. While we strive to quickly integrate all of our acquisitions to one enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform and management reporting/analysis information systems, we expect that we will need to continue to modify our accounting policies, internal controls, procedures and compliance programs to provide consistency across all of our operations, in order to increase efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate visibility into our decentralized operations. We are entitled to certain indemnification rights under the agreements by which we have acquired companies. If circumstances arise under which we believe we are entitled to indemnification, the indemnifying party may not agree with our assertion as to our rights to indemnification under the circumstances and we may increase our accruals and corresponding costs. Our failure to comply with the debt covenants in our credit agreement, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum leverage ratio and minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Our credit facility contains other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on the payment of dividends, repurchase of common stock, acquisitions without lender approval and creation of liens. Sufficiently adverse financial performance could result in default under certain future ratio levels. If there were an event of default under our credit facility that was not cured or waived, the amounts outstanding could become due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings if accelerated upon an event of default and the Company may not be able to refinance our indebtedness. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, competition, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by foreign tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. 21 The Obama administration has announced proposals to tax profits of U.S. companies earned abroad. While it is not possible to predict whether any such proposals will be implemented and how they will ultimately impact us, they may adversely impact our results of operations. We have recorded a significant amount of deferred tax assets, which may become impaired in the future. We have a significant amount of deferred tax assets, mainly resulting from previously incurred net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). Accounting guidance for valuation allowances for deferred tax assets is strictly based on the evaluation of positive and negative evidence which can be objectively verified as to whether it is more likely than not the NOLs will be utilized, and if positive evidence does not outweigh negative evidence, a valuation allowance is required. Based on such assessment, we may have to record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets. Impairment of deferred tax assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, significant negative industry or economic trends, adverse changes in laws or regulations, decrease in projected future cash flows, and a variety of other factors. In the future, we may have an impairment of deferred tax assets, which could result in material impairment charges causing an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment for our manufacturing activities on a timely basis and at competitive pricing and quality, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our business and financial results will suffer. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Some of our businesses purchase their requirements of certain of these items from sole or limited source suppliers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, especially within the current challenging economic environment, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed our production requirements or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Our inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of skilled officers and other employees could impede our ability to compete successfully. If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, we may not be able to achieve cost savings and other initiatives to profitably grow our business, effectively integrate acquired businesses, or realize anticipated results from those businesses. If we suffer loss to our facilities, information technology systems, third party distribution system, warehousing and logistical services, or disruptions in supply chain due to a catastrophe or other natural or man-made events, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our facilities, information technology systems and distribution systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture. In particular, a significant portion of the goods we manufacture are transported to different countries, requiring sophisticated warehousing, logistics and other resources. If any of the countries from which we transport products were to suffer delays in exporting manufactured goods, or if any of our third party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell those products at full value, or at all. Similarly, if any of our raw materials or components used in our products could not be delivered to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products in response to customer demand. 22 The impact from the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan is still being assessed. The Company’s presence in Japan is mainly with N-T, our joint venture with Nikkiso based in Tokyo. The Company has not been able to fully assess the impact of the situation in Japan since information is limited and the situation is still evolving. A number of our customers have temporarily scaled back production or shut down a limited number of plants because of supply chain disruptions due to parts that normally come from Japan. The Company will continue to work closely with our customers, vendors and joint venture partner to monitor and assess the impact of the situation in Japan, because such risks may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, identifiable intangible assets, and other long-lived assets which may become impaired in the future. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. Impairment of goodwill, identifiable intangible assets and other long-lived assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, significant negative industry or economic trends, significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period resulting in a significant change in market capitalization relative to net book value, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in laws or regulations, decrease in projected future cash flows, and a variety of other factors. The Company may have in the future an impairment of goodwill, identifiable intangible assets, and other long-lived assets, which could result in material impairment charges causing an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 