ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this report. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock or other securities. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Global Economic Environment The current global economic environment may increase the magnitude and the likelihood of the occurrence of the negative consequences discussed in many of the risks factors that follow. In particular, consider the risks related to (1) the rapid deterioration of demand for oil and natural gas resulting from the economic environment and the related negative effects on oil and gas pricing, and (2) the effect of the credit constraints on our business, including the severe reduction in the availability of credit for drilling or to finance acquisitions. Also consider the interplay between these two risks: decline in oil and gas prices can lead to a reduction in the borrowing base for our credit line, and hence a reduction in our credit available for drilling. Similarly, further reductions in oil and gas prices could result in some of our assets becoming uneconomic to exploit, which would reduce our reserves, which in turn would reduce our borrowing base and the credit available to us. These factors could result in less drilling and production by us, and could thereby adversely affect our profitability and could limit our ability to execute our business plan. These factors could also make it impossible or extremely expensive to extend the term of our revolving credit line. The global economic environment also increases the counterparty failure risk for both the banks which are parties to our oil and gas derivative holdings and for payments from purchasers of our oil and gas. Lastly, inability to ascertain the ultimate depth and duration of the economic environment could cause us to refrain from capital expenditures in order to maintain higher liquidity; our uncertainty and caution could result in significantly reduced drilling and hence reduced future production. All these risks could have a significant adverse effect on our business and our financial results. Any additional deterioration in the domestic or global economic conditions will further amplify these risks. Recent disruptions in the global financial markets and the related economic environment may further decrease the demand for oil and gas and the prices of oil and gas, thereby limiting our future drilling and production, and thereby adversely affecting our profitability. During the second half of 2008 and to date, prices for oil and gas decreased over 70%. The well-publicized global financial market disruptions and the related economic environment may further decrease demand for oil and gas and therefore lower oil and gas prices. If there is such an additional reduction in demand, the continued production of gas may increase current oversupply and result in still lower gas prices. There is no certainty how long this low price environment will continue. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and certain competitors may have lower operating costs in such an environment. Furthermore, as a result of these disruptions in the financial markets, it is possible that in future years we would not be able to borrow sufficient funds to sustain or increase capital expenditures relative to 2008 expenditures, should we wish to make expenditures at those levels. Such market conditions may also make it more difficult or impossible for us to finance acquisitions, through either equity or debt; acquisitions have historically been a major source of growth for us. We may also have difficulty finding partners to develop new drilling prospects and to build the pipeline systems needed to transport our gas. Inability of third parties to finance and build additional pipelines out of the Rockies and elsewhere could cause significant negative pricing effects. Any of the above factors could adversely affect our operating results. Risks Related to Our Business and the Natural Gas and Oil Industry Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate unpredictably and a decline in natural gas and oil prices can significantly affect the value of our assets, our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend in large part upon the prices and demand for natural gas and oil. The markets for these commodities are very volatile, and even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas and oil prices have a significant effect on our cash flow and on the value of our reserves, which can in turn reduce our borrowing base under our senior credit agreement. Prices for natural gas and oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including national and international economic and political factors and federal and state legislation. The prices from the fourth quarter of 2008 to date have been too low to economically justify many drilling operations, and it is uncertain how long such low pricing shall persist. The prices of natural gas and oil are volatile, often fluctuating greatly. Lower natural gas and oil prices may not only reduce our revenues, but also may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. As a result, we may have to make substantial additional downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or our exploration results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write-down operating assets to fair value, as a non-cash charge to earnings. We assess impairment of capitalized costs of proved natural gas and oil properties by comparing net capitalized costs to estimated undiscounted future net cash flows on a field-by-field basis using estimated production based upon prices at which management reasonably estimates such products may be sold. In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $7.5 million primarily related to our Texas Barnett Shale wells, and in 2006, we recorded an impairment charge of $1.5 million related to our Nesson field in North Dakota. There were no impairments during 2007. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. 17 Table of Contents A substantial part of our natural gas and oil production is located in the Rocky Mountain Region, making it vulnerable to risks associated with operating primarily in a single geographic area. Our operations have been focused on the Rocky Mountain Region, which means our current producing properties and new drilling opportunities are geographically concentrated in that area. Because our operations are not as diversified geographically as many of our competitors, the success of our operations and our profitability may be disproportionately exposed to the affect of any regional events, including fluctuations in prices of natural gas and oil produced from the wells in the region, natural disasters, restrictive governmental regulations, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production or interruption of transportation, and any resulting delays or interruptions of production from existing or planned new wells. During the last four months of 2008, natural gas prices in the Rocky Mountain Region fell disproportionately when compared to other markets, due in part to continuing constraints in transporting natural gas from producing properties in the region. Because of the concentration of our operations in the Rocky Mountain Region, and although, in late 2008 we entered into a significant multi-year basis hedge in order to minimize the price risk of our concentration in the Rocky Mountain Region, such price decreases are more likely to have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and cash flow than those of our more geographically diverse competitors. Our estimated natural gas and oil reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Natural gas and oil reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and oil and assumptions concerning future natural gas and oil prices, production levels, and operating and development costs over the economic life of the properties. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may be inaccurate. Independent petroleum engineers prepare our estimates of natural gas and oil reserves using pricing, production, cost, tax and other information that we provide. The reserve estimates are based on certain assumptions regarding future natural gas and oil prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions to actual figures could greatly affect: · the estimates of reserves; · the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas and oil attributable to any particular group of properties; · future depreciation, depletion and amortization rates and amounts; · impairments in the value of our assets; · the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery; · estimates of the future net cash flows; and · timing of our capital expenditures. Some of our reserve estimates must be made with limited production history, which renders these reserve estimates less reliable than estimates based on a longer production history. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which the reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas and oil recovered being different from earlier reserve estimates. The present value of our estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves (the SEC requires the use of year end prices). The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on selling prices in effect on the day of estimate (year end). However, factors such as actual prices we receive for natural gas and oil and hedging instruments, the amount and timing of actual production, amount and timing of future development costs, supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation also affect our actual future net cash flows from our natural gas and oil properties. The timing of both our production and incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor (the rate required by the SEC) we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates currently in effect and risks associated with our natural gas and oil properties or the natural gas and oil industry in general. 18 Table of Contents Unless natural gas and oil reserves are replaced as they are produced, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Producing natural gas and oil reservoirs generally is characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. The rate of decline will change if production from existing wells declines in a different manner than we estimated and the rate can change due to other circumstances. Thus, our future natural gas and oil reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, discover or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. As a result, our future operations, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Acquisitions are subject to the uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Acquisitions of producing properties and undeveloped properties have been an important part of our historical growth. We expect acquisitions will also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include recoverable reserves, development potential, future natural gas and oil prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform engineering, geological and geophysical reviews of the acquired properties, which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such reviews are not likely to permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well prior to an acquisition and our ability to evaluate undeveloped acreage is inherently imprecise. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. In some cases, our review prior to signing a definitive purchase agreement may be even more limited. Our focus on acquiring producing natural gas and oil properties may increase our potential exposure to liabilities and costs for environmental and other problems existing on acquired properties. Often we are not entitled to contractual indemnification associated with acquired properties. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with no or limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties, as was the case in the acquisitions of assets from EXCO Resources Inc. and Castle Gas Company, as well as the acquisition of all shares of Unioil, Inc. We could incur significant unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, or experience losses due to title defects, in our acquisitions for which we have limited or no contractual remedies or insurance coverage. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or be in different geographic locations than our existing properties. For example, in the Castle acquisition, we acquired interests in wells which we will need to operate together with other partners, we acquired pipelines that we will need to operate and expect we will need to commit to drilling in the acquired areas to achieve the expected benefits. Consequently, we may not be able to efficiently realize the assumed or expected economic benefits of properties that we acquire, if at all. When drilling prospects, we may not yield natural gas or oil in commercially viable quantities. A prospect is a property on which our geologists have identified what they believe, based on available information, to be indications of natural gas or oil bearing rocks. However, our geologists cannot know conclusively prior to drilling and testing whether natural gas or oil will be present or, if present, whether natural gas or oil will be present in sufficient quantities to repay drilling or completion costs and generate a profit given the available data and technology. If a well is determined to be dry or uneconomic, which can occur even though it contains some oil or natural gas, it is classified as a dry hole and must be plugged and abandoned in accordance with applicable regulations. This generally results in the loss of the entire cost of drilling and completion to that point, the cost of plugging, and lease costs associated with the prospect. Even wells that are completed and placed into production may not produce sufficient natural gas and oil to be profitable. If we drill a dry hole or unprofitable well on current and future prospects, the profitability of our operations will decline and our value will likely be reduced. In sum, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain and new wells may not be productive. Our recent uneconomic drilling in the Texas Barnett Shale illustrates this risk. We may not be able to identify enough attractive prospects on a timely basis to meet our development needs, which could limit our future development opportunities. Our geologists have identified a number of potential drilling locations on our existing acreage. These drilling locations must be replaced as they are drilled for us to continue to grow our reserves and production. Our ability to identify and acquire new drilling locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, natural gas and oil prices, competition, costs, availability of drilling rigs, drilling results and the ability of our geologists to successfully identify potentially successful new areas to develop. Because of these uncertainties, our profitability and growth opportunities may be limited by the timely availability of new drilling locations. As a result, our operations and profitability could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Drilling for and producing natural gas and oil are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be unprofitable, not only due to dry holes, but also due to curtailments, delays or cancellations as a result of other factors, including: • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • pressures; • fires; • blowouts; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • title problems; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • unexpected operational events; • shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and • adverse weather conditions. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells and regulatory penalties. We maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from operations; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available. Additionally, our management may elect not to obtain insurance if the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Thus, losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. Our oil and gas well drilling operations segment has historically received most of its revenue from the partnerships we sponsor, and a reduction or loss of that business could reduce or eliminate the revenue, profit and cash flow associated with those activities. Our oil and gas well drilling operations segment has, prior to 2008, received most of its revenue from the partnerships we sponsor. We sponsor oil and natural gas partnerships through a network of non-affiliated FINRA broker dealers. We did not offer a partnership in 2008 and do not anticipate offering a partnership in 2009. There can be no assurance that the network of brokers will be available or can be recreated if we wish to use partnerships to raise funds in future years. In that situation, our operations and profitability could be adversely affected. Under the “successful efforts” accounting method that we use, unsuccessful exploratory wells must be expensed in the period when they are determined to be non-productive, which reduces our net income in such periods and could have a negative effect on our profitability. We have conducted exploratory drilling and plan to continue exploratory drilling in 2009 in order to identify additional opportunities for future development. Under the “successful efforts” method of accounting that we use, the cost of unsuccessful exploratory wells must be charged to expense in the period when they are determined to be unsuccessful. In addition, lease costs for acreage condemned by the unsuccessful well must also be expensed. In contrast, unsuccessful development wells are capitalized as a part of the investment in the field where they are located. Because exploratory wells generally are more likely to be unsuccessful than development wells, we anticipate that some or all of our exploratory wells may not be productive. The costs of such unsuccessful exploratory wells could result in a significant reduction in our profitability in periods when the costs are required to be expensed and these increased costs could reduce our net income and have a negative effect on our profitability and ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness. 20 Table of Contents Increasing finding and development costs may impair our profitability. In order to continue to grow and maintain our profitability, we must annually add new reserves that exceed our yearly production at a finding and development cost that yields an acceptable operating margin and depreciation, depletion and amortization rate. Without cost effective exploration, development or acquisition activities, our production, reserves and profitability will decline over time. Given the relative maturity of most natural gas and oil basins in North America and the high level of activity in the industry, the cost of finding new reserves through exploration and development operations has been increasing. The acquisition market for natural gas and oil properties has become extremely competitive among producers for additional production and expanded drilling opportunities in North America. Acquisition values climbed toward historic highs during 2007 and 2008 on a per unit basis, particularly in the Rocky Mountain Region, and these values may continue to increase in the future. This increase in finding and development costs results in higher depreciation, depletion and amortization rates. If the upward trend in finding and development costs continues, we will be exposed to an increased likelihood of a write-down in carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties in response to falling commodity prices and reduced profitability of our operations. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves, and ultimately our profitability. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. We expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of natural gas and oil reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with bank borrowings, cash generated by operations and our 2008 public note issuance. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and our existing and planned financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the amount of natural gas and oil we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which natural gas and oil are sold; • the costs to produce oil and natural gas; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility decreases as a result of lower natural gas and oil prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, then we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may, from time to time, need to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms of any additional financing. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower natural gas and oil prices, or we incur operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at planned levels, and our profitability may be adversely affected. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. If cash generated by our operations or sale of drilling partnerships or available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of the exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties, decline in natural gas and oil reserves and a decline in our profitability. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife affect natural gas and oil operations in the Rocky Mountains. In certain areas, including parts of the Piceance Basin in Colorado, drilling and other natural gas and oil activities are restricted or prohibited by lease stipulations, or prevented by weather conditions, for up to six months out of the year. This limits our operations in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase operating and capital costs and therefore adversely affect our profitability. 21 Table of Contents We have limited control over activities on properties in which we own an interest but we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues. We operate most of the wells in which we own an interest. However, there are some wells we do not operate because we participate through joint operating agreements under which we own partial interests in natural gas and oil properties operated by other entities. If we do not operate the properties in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. The failure of an operator to adequately perform operations, or an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce production and revenues and affect our profitability. The success and timing of drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise (including safety and environmental compliance) and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells, and use of technology. Market conditions or operational impediments could hinder our access to natural gas and oil markets or delay production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory natural gas and oil transportation arrangements may hinder our access to natural gas and oil markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for natural gas and oil production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of natural gas and oil and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells for lack of market or because of inadequacy, unavailability or the pricing associated with natural gas pipeline, gathering system capacity or processing facilities. If that were to occur, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until we made production arrangements to deliver the product to market. Thus, our profitability would be adversely affected. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or reduced income from failure to perform by our counterparties or from changes in prices. We use derivatives for a portion of our natural gas and oil production from our own wells, our partnerships and for natural gas purchases and sales by our marketing subsidiary to achieve a more predictable cash flow, to reduce exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of natural gas and oil, and to allow our natural gas marketing company to offer pricing options to natural gas sellers and purchasers. These arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when purchases or sales are different than expected, the counter-party to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative agreement and actual prices that we receive. In addition, derivative arrangements may limit the benefit from changes in the prices for natural gas and oil and may require the use of our resources to meet cash margin requirements. Since our derivatives do not currently qualify for use of hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in our income statements, and our net income is subject to greater volatility than if our derivative instruments qualified for hedge accounting. For instance, if oil and gas prices rise significantly, it could result in significant non-cash charges each quarter, which could have a material negative effect on our net income. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from natural gas and oil sales or joint interest billings to a small number of third parties in the energy industry. This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may affect our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, our natural gas and oil derivatives as well as the derivatives used by our marketing subsidiary expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. Terrorist attacks or similar hostilities may adversely affect our results of operations. Increasing terrorist attacks around the world have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially adversely affect our business. Uncertainty surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war. The continuation of these attacks may subject our operations to increased risks and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover some liabilities or losses that we may incur. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance at levels that would provide enough funds for us to continue operating without access to other funds. For some risks, such as drilling blow-out insurance, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks that we are subject to are generally not fully insurable. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The natural gas and oil industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As our competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, other natural gas and oil companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we were unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed. The natural gas and oil industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce natural gas and oil, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive natural gas and oil properties and exploratory prospects or define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low natural gas and oil market prices. Larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations more easily than we can, which can adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. In addition, because many companies in our industry have greater financial and human resources, we may be at a disadvantage in bidding for exploratory prospects and producing natural gas and oil properties. These factors could adversely affect the success of our operations and our profitability. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our exploration, development, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas and oil wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment includes federal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulation by natural gas and oil-producing states of conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations, increase our costs of exploration and production and limit the quantity of natural gas and oil that we can produce and market. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore on or develop our properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase our financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, these additional costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to larger companies in the industry which can spread such additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Illustrative of these risks are regulations recently enacted by the State of Colorado which focus on the oil and gas industry. These multi-faceted proposed regulations significantly enhance requirements regarding oil and gas permitting, environmental requirements, and wildlife protection. Permitting delays and increased costs could result from these final regulations. 23 Table of Contents Litigation has been commenced against us pertaining to our royalty practices and payments; the cost of our defending these lawsuits, and any future similar lawsuit, could be significant and any resulting judgments against us could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition. In recent years, litigation has commenced against us and several other companies in our industry regarding royalty practices and payments in jurisdictions where we conduct business. For more information on the suits that currently relate to us, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these cases. Even if the ultimate outcome of this litigation resulted in our dismissal, defense costs could be significant. These costs would be reflected in terms of dollar outlay as well as the amount of time, attention and other resources that our management would have to appropriate to the defense. Although we cannot predict an eventual outcome of this litigation, a judgment in favor of a plaintiff could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Any future failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and/or effective disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the reliability of our financial statements and our ability to file public reports on time, raise capital and meet our debt obligations. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, and pursuant to this assessment, concluded that we did maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. However, for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting identified several material weaknesses as disclosed in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for each of the years in the three-year period then ended and filed with the SEC on March 20, 2008, May 23, 2007, and May 31, 2006, respectively. The existence of a material weakness means there is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Any future failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and/or effective disclosure controls and procedures could prevent us from being able to prevent fraud and/or provide reliable financial statements and other public reports. Such circumstances could harm our business and operating results, cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements and reports, and have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our debt and equity securities and our ability to raise capital necessary for our operations. These failures may also adversely affect our ability to file our periodic reports with the SEC on time. Being late in filing our periodic reports with the SEC may result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market or a default under our senior credit agreement, the indenture governing our outstanding 12% senior notes due 2018, and any other instruments governing debt that we may incur in the future. Ultimately, such defaults could lead to the acceleration of our debt obligations, and if an acceleration of our debt obligations were to occur, we may not have sufficient funds to repay those obligations immediately, and we would be forced to seek alternative repayment arrangements either through a bankruptcy or an out of court debt restructuring. Consequently, a future material weakness could lead to significant and negative changes to our financial condition and the value of our equity and debt securities. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations. Our lenders can unilaterally reduce our borrowing availability based on anticipated sustained oil and natural gas prices. We depend on our revolving credit facility for future capital needs. The terms of the borrowing agreement require us to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flows from operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the revolving credit facility or other debt financing could result in a default under those facilities, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. The revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion based upon projected revenues from the natural gas and oil properties securing their loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other natural gas and oil properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under the revolving credit facility. Our inability to borrow additional funds under our credit facility could adversely affect our operations. 24 Table of Contents The indenture governing our outstanding senior notes and our senior credit agreement impose (and we anticipate that the indentures governing any other debt securities we may issue will also impose) restrictions on us that may limit the discretion of management in operating our business. That, in turn, could impair our ability to meet our obligations. The indenture governing our outstanding senior notes and our senior credit agreement contain (and we anticipate that the indentures governing any other debt securities we may issue will also contain) various restrictive covenants that limit management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make certain investments or pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, or purchase, redeem or retire capital stock; • sell assets, including capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries; • restrict dividends or other payments by restricted subsidiaries; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • merge or consolidate with another company. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, to pursue our business strategies and otherwise conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with them. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing our outstanding senior notes and any other debt securities we may issue in the future and/or our senior credit agreement. If there were an event of default under our indenture and/or the senior credit agreement, the affected creditors could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if we fail to repay indebtedness under our senior credit agreement when it becomes due, the lenders under the senior credit agreement could proceed against the assets which we have pledged to them as security. Our assets and cash flow might not be sufficient to repay our outstanding debt in the event of a default. The occurrence of such an event would adversely affect our operations and profitability. Our senior credit agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests. Our ability to maintain or meet such financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, and we cannot assure you that we will maintain or meet such ratios and tests, or that the lenders under the senior credit agreement will waive any failure to meet such ratios or tests. In addition, upon a change in control, we are required to offer to buy each senior note for 101% of the principal amount, plus unpaid interest. A change in control is defined to include: (i) when a majority of the Board of Directors are not continuing directors; (ii) when one person (or group of related persons) holds direct or indirect ownership of over 50% of our voting stock; or (iii) upon sale, transfer or lease of substantially all of our assets. We may incur additional indebtedness to facilitate our acquisition of additional properties, which would increase our leverage and could negatively affect our business or financial condition. Our business strategy includes the acquisition of additional properties that we believe would have a positive effect on our current business and operations. We expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of such properties and may incur additional indebtedness to finance the acquisitions. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would increase our leverage and our interest expense, which could have a negative effect on our business or financial condition. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to refinance our existing debt, expand our current operations or acquire new businesses. This could result in our failure to grow in accordance with our plans, or could result in defaults in our obligations under our senior credit agreement or the indenture relating to our outstanding senior notes. In order to refinance indebtedness, expand existing operations and acquire additional businesses or properties, we will require substantial amounts of capital. There can be no assurance that financing, whether from equity or debt financings or other sources, will be available or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to obtain such financing, we will be unable to acquire additional businesses or properties and may be unable to meet our obligations under our senior credit agreement and the indenture relating to our outstanding senior notes or any other debt securities we may issue in the future. Such an event would adversely affect our operations and profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents 