risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock or other securities. Oil and natural gas prices fluctuate unpredictably and a decline in oil and natural gas prices can significantly affect the Company's financial results and impede its growth. The Company's revenue, profitability and cash flow depend in large part upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are very volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect the Company's financial results and impede its growth. Changes in oil and natural gas prices have a significant impact on the value of the Company's reserves and on its cash flow. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Company's control, including national and international economic and political factors and federal and state legislation. 13 Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease the Company's revenues, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that the Company can produce economically. This may result in the Company having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. If this occurs or if the Company's estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or the Company's exploration results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down to fair value, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. The Company assesses impairment of capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties by comparing net capitalized costs to estimated undiscounted future net cash flows on a field-by-field basis using estimated production based upon prices at which management reasonably estimates such products to be sold. If net capitalized costs exceed undiscounted future net cash flows, the measurement of impairment is based on estimated fair value which would consider future discounted cash flows. The Company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. The Company's estimated oil and gas reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of the Company's reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of oil and natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may be inaccurate. The Company's estimates of oil and gas reserves are prepared by the independent petroleum engineers, using pricing, production, cost, tax and other information provided by the Company. Over time, the independent petroleum engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling, testing, and production. The reserve estimates are based on certain assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions to actual figures could greatly affect the estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, future depreciation, depletion and amortization rates and amounts, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which renders these reserve estimates less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which the reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of oil and gas recovered being different from earlier reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from the proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves (the Securities and Exchange Commission requires the use of year end prices). The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on selling prices in effect on the day of estimate (year end) and future estimated costs. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas, the amount and timing of actual production, amount and timing of future development costs, supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor (rate required by the Securities and Exchange Commission) we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates currently in effect and risks associated with our oil and gas properties or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Unless oil and natural gas reserves are replaced as they are produced, the Company's reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. The rate of decline will change if production from existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change due to other circumstances. Thus, the Company's future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, its cash flow and income are highly dependent on efficiently developing and exploiting the Company's current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. The Company may not be able to develop, discover or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. As a result, the Company's operations, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Prospects drilled by the Company may not yield natural gas or oil in commercially viable quantities. A prospect is a property on which the Company's geologists have identified what they believe, based on available information, to be indications of natural gas or oil bearing rocks. However, the use of available data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable the geologists to know conclusively prior to drilling and testing whether natural gas or oil will be present or, if present, whether natural gas or oil will be present in sufficient quantities to repay drilling or completion costs and generate a profit. If a well is determined to be dry or uneconomic, which can occur even though it contains some 14 oil or gas, it is classified as a dry hole and must be plugged and abandoned in accordance with applicable regulations. This generally results in the loss of the entire cost of drilling and completion to that point, the cost of plugging, and lease costs associated with the prospect. Even wells that are completed and placed into production may not produce sufficient oil and gas to be profitable. If the Company drills a dry hole or non-profitable well on current and future prospects, the profitability of its operations will decline and the value of the Company will be reduced. In sum, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain and new wells may not be productive. The Company may not be able to identify enough attractive prospects on a timely basis to meet its own development needs and those of the partnerships it forms for investors, which could limit the Company's development opportunities and/or force it to reduce the partnership activity. Our geologists have identified a number of potential drilling locations on our existing acreage. These drilling locations must be replaced as they are drilled for the Company to continue to grow its reserves and production, and for it to be able to continue its partnership drilling activities. The Company's ability to identify and acquire new drilling locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, competition, costs, drilling results, and the ability of the Company's geologists to successfully identify potentially successful new areas to develop. Because of these uncertainties, the Company's profitability and growth opportunities may be limited by the timely availability of new drilling locations, and it could be forced to terminate or curtail its partnership activities because of a lack of suitable prospects for the partnerships. As a result, the Company's operations and profitability would be adversely affected. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from dry holes, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. In addition, drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, fires, blowouts, loss of drilling fluid circulation, title problems, facility or equipment malfunctions, unexpected operational events, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services, compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements, and adverse weather conditions. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells and regulatory penalties. The Company maintains insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from operations; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available. Additionally, the Company management may elect not to obtain insurance if the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Thus, losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business activities, financial condition and results of operations. Increased drilling activity, particularly in the Rocky Mountain Region, may create a shortage of drilling rigs, service providers, or materials forcing the Company to curtail its drilling operations for itself and its partnerships thereby reducing revenue and profits from new oil and gas wells and from the Company's drilling and completion activities. With high levels of oil and gas prices many oil and gas companies have increased their levels of drilling and completing new wells and reworking old wells. At the same time there is a limited supply of drilling rigs, completion equipment and qualified personnel to provide the services necessary to drill, complete and rework new wells. In particular, the Rocky Mountain Region has seen a great increase in activity over the past few years. If the demand for these goods and services continues to increase shortages may develop, which could result in increased prices for these goods and services or the Company's inability to complete all of the drilling it has planned. This could result in less drilling by the Company and the temporary or permanent loss of part or all of its partnership drilling activity and less profitability for the Company. The Company's drilling and development segment receives virtually all of its revenue from the partnerships it sponsors, and a reduction or loss of that business could reduce or eliminate the revenue and profits associated with those activities. 15 The Company's drilling activities are dependent upon the capital raised by the Company as a sponsor of limited partnerships. The Company sells oil and natural gas partnerships through a network of non-affiliated NASD broker dealers. The largest of those broker dealers sold about 13.8% of the partnership units in 2005. Investors in the partnerships are interested in the tax deductions generated by the intangible drilling costs and the cash flow generated by the partnerships. If the tax laws were changed to reduce or eliminate the tax advantages, if the cash flow from the partnerships were to decline due to weak wells or lower energy prices, or if the brokers decide to stop offering our partnerships for some reason, the sales of the partnership units would decline, reducing or eliminating the revenue and profits associated with the drilling and development business segment. As a result, the Company's operations and profitability would be adversely affected. Under the Successful Efforts accounting method used by the Company unsuccessful exploratory wells must be expensed in the period when they are determined to be non-productive which results in a reduction of the Company's net income and profitability and could have a negative impact on the Company's stock price. The Company increased its exploratory drilling in 2005 and plans to further increase its exploratory drilling in 2006 in order to identify additional opportunities for future development. However the cost of unsuccessful exploratory wells must be charged to expense in the period when they are determined to be unsuccessful under the successful efforts method of accounting used by the Company. In addition lease costs for acreage condemned by the unsuccessful well must also be expensed. In contrast unsuccessful development wells are capitalized as a part of the investment in the field where they are located. Because exploratory wells generally are more likely to be unsuccessful than development wells, the Company anticipates that some or all of its exploratory wells may not be productive. The costs of such unsuccessful wells could result in a significant reduction in the Company's profitability in periods when the costs are required to be expensed, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's stock price. In addition unsuccessful wells will not add to the Company's reserves or production. We may incur substantial impairment write-downs, due to revisions in our estimates of our reserves, if development costs exceed estimates or if price of oil and natural gas declines. If management's estimate of the recoverable reserves on a property is revised downward, if development costs exceed previous estimates or if oil and natural gas prices decline, we may be required to record additional non-cash impairment writedowns in the future, which would result in a negative impact to our financial position. We review our proved oil and gas properties for impairment on a quarterly basis. To determine if a depletable unit is impaired, we compare the carrying value of the depletable unit to the undiscounted future net cash flows by applying management's estimates of future oil and gas prices to the estimated future production of oil and gas reserves over the economic life of the property. Future net cash flows are based upon our independent reserve engineers' estimates of proved reserves. In addition, other factors such as probable and possible reserves are taken into consideration when justified by economic conditions. For each property determined to be impaired, we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the property on a depletable unit basis. Fair value is estimated to be the present value of the aforementioned expected future net cash flows. Any impairment charge incurred is recorded as a reduction to the asset value. Each part of this calculation is subject to a large degree of judgment, including the determination of the depletable units' estimated reserves, future cash flows and fair value. There were no impairments during 2005, 2004 or 2003. Rising finding and development costs may impair our profitability. In order to continue to grow and maintain its profitability, the Company must annually add new reserves exceeding its yearly production at a finding and development cost that yields an acceptable operating margin and depreciation, depletion and amortization rate. Without cost effective exploration, development or acquisition activities, production, reserves and profitability will decline over time. Given the relative maturity of most gas basins in North America the cost of finding new reserves through exploration and development operations has been increasing. The acquisition market for natural gas properties has become extremely competitive among producers for additional production and expanded drilling opportunities in North America. Acquisition values climbed toward historic highs during 2005 on a per unit basis, particularly in the Rocky Mountain Region, and the Company believes these values may continue to increase in 2006. This increase in finding and development costs is resulting in higher depreciation, depletion and amortization rates. If the upward trend in finding and development costs continues, the Company will be exposed to an increased likelihood of a write-down in carrying value of its natural gas and oil properties in response to falling prices, which would impair its profitability. The Company's development and exploration operations require substantial capital and it may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves and production. 16 The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. The Company makes and expects to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in its business and operations for the exploration for and development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, the Company has financed capital expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations, limited partnership offerings and proceeds from bank borrowings. Currently the Company intends to finance its capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, and its existing financing arrangements. Cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including the Company's proved reserves, the level of oil and natural gas the Company is able to produce from existing wells, the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold, and the Company's ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If the Company's revenues or the borrowing base under its revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, it may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain its operations at planned levels. If additional capital is needed, the Company may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. If cash generated by operations or sale of limited partnerships or available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves and a decline in our profitability. The Company's credit facility and other debt financing have substantial restrictions and financial covenants and the Company may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations. The Company will depend on its revolving credit facility for future capital needs. We also are required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flows from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the revolving credit facility or other debt financing could result in a default under those facilities, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. The revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion, based upon projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under the revolving credit facility. Our inability to borrow additional funds under our credit facility could adversely affect our operations. A substantial part of the Company's producing properties is located in the Rocky Mountains, making it vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. The Company's operations are becoming increasingly focused on the Rocky Mountain Region, which means its producing properties and new drilling opportunities are geographically concentrated in that area. As a result, the Company, the success of its operations, and its profitability may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from existing or planned new wells by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, interruption of transportation, or fluctuations in prices of oil and natural gas produced from the wells in the region. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect the Company's ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Oil and natural gas operations in the Rocky Mountains are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. In certain areas, including parts of the Sand Wash and Piceance Basins in Colorado, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities are restricted or prohibited by lease stipulations, or prevented by weather conditions, for up to 6 months out of the year. This limits operations in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay operations and materially increase operating and capital costs and therefore adversely affect profitability. 17 Properties that the Company buys may not produce as projected and the Company may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. One of the Company's growth strategies is to acquire producing oil and natural gas reserves in its areas of operations and in new areas to help establish a base of operations for further development. However, reviews of potential acquisitions are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property. Ordinarily, the Company focuses review efforts on the higher value properties and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable or detectable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the Company may choose to assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties. We have limited control over activities on properties we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues. The Company operates most of the wells in which it owns an interest. However there are some wells the Company does not operate because it participates through joint operating agreements under which it owns partial interests in oil and natural gas properties operated by other entities. If the Company does not operate the properties in which it owns an interest, it does not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. The failure of an operator to adequately perform operations, or an operator's breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce production and revenues and affect our profitability. The success and timing of drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depends upon a number of factors outside of the Company's control, including the operator's timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells, and use of technology. Market conditions or operational impediments hinder access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production. The availability of a ready market for oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. The Company's ability to market its production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm the Company's business. We may be required to shut in wells for lack of market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of natural gas pipeline, gathering system capacity or processing facilities. If that were to occur, the Company would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until production arrangements were made to deliver the production to market and its profitability would be adversely affected. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income. To achieve a more predictable cash flow, to reduce exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas and to allow our gas marketing company to offer pricing options to gas sellers and purchasers, the Company uses derivatives for a portion of its oil and natural gas production from its own wells, and for gas purchases and sales by its marketing subsidiary. These arrangements expose the Company to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production, purchases or sales are different than expected, the counter-party to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative agreement and actual prices received. In addition, derivative hedging arrangements may limit the benefit from changes in the prices for oil and natural gas and may require the use of Company resources to meet cash margin requirements. Since the Company does not use hedge accounting treatment for their derivatives, its earnings are subject to greater volatility. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from oil and natural gas sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the energy industry. This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact the Company's overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, the Company's oil and natural gas derivatives as well as the derivatives used by its marketing subsidiary expose the Company to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. The Company depends on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. The Company depends on the performance of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of any member of senior management or other key employees could negatively impact the Company's ability to execute its strategy. The Company does not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of its employees. 18 Terrorist attacks or similar hostilities may adversely impact our results of operations. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially adversely impact our business. Uncertainty surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war. The continuation of these developments may subject our operations to increased risks and depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover some liabilities or losses that we may incur. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event not fully covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance at levels that would provide enough funds for us to continue operating without access to other funds. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The natural gas and oil industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, other natural gas and oil companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect the Company's ability to succeed. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and the Company competes with other companies that have greater resources. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects or define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low oil and natural gas market prices. Larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations more easily than the Company can, which would adversely affect the Company's competitive position. The Company's ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon its ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. In addition, because many companies in our industry have greater financial and human resources, the Company may be at a disadvantage in bidding for exploratory prospects and producing oil and natural gas properties. These factors could adversely affect the success of the Company's operations and its profitability. The Company is subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. The Company's exploration, development, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells. Under these laws and regulations, the Company could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject the Company to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. 19 Part of the regulatory environment includes, in some cases, federal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. In addition, the Company's activities are subject to the regulation by oil and natural gas-producing states of conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect operations and limit the quantity of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to explore on or develop its properties. Additionally, the oil and natural gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect profitability. Furthermore, the Company may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in the industry who can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. See "Business - Governmental Regulation - Regulation of Oil and Natural Gas Exploration and Production" and "Business - Governmental Regulation - Environmental Regulations" for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. 