risk factors listed from time to time in the reports we file with the SEC, including those described below under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This list is not exhaustive. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements after the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION NOTES: (1) OUR FISCAL YEAR BEGINS ON APRIL 1 AND ENDS ON MARCH 31. REFERENCES IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K TO THE YEAR 2007 OR FISCAL YEAR 2007 REFER TO THE 12-MONTH PERIOD FROM APRIL 1, 2006 THROUGH MARCH 31, 2007 AND REFERENCES TO THE YEAR 2008 OR FISCAL YEAR 2008 REFER TO THE 12-MONTH PERIOD FROM APRIL 1, 2007 THROUGH MARCH 31, 2008. (2) ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THIS REPORT ARE IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS. 3 Measurement Specialties, Inc. is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of sensors and sensor-based systems for original equipment manufacturers and end users, based on a broad portfolio of proprietary technology. The Company is a multi-national corporation with nine primary manufacturing facilities strategically located in the United States, China, France, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland, enabling the Company to produce and market world-wide a broad range of sensors that use advanced technologies to measure precise ranges of physical characteristics. These sensors are used for automotive, medical, consumer, military/aerospace, and industrial applications. The Company’s sensor products include pressure sensors and transducers, linear/rotary position sensors, piezoelectric polymer film sensors, custom microstructures, load cells, accelerometers, optical sensors, humidity and temperature sensors. The Company's advanced technologies include piezo-resistive silicon sensors, application-specific integrated circuits, micro-electromechanical systems (“MEMS”), piezoelectric polymers, foil strain gauges, force balance systems, fluid capacitive devices, linear and rotational variable differential transformers, electromagnetic displacement sensors, hygroscopic capacitive sensors, ultrasonic sensors, optical sensors, negative thermal coefficient (“NTC”) ceramic sensors and mechanical resonators. With engineering, sourcing and manufacturing facilities located in North America, Europe and Asia, the Company has been able to, among other things, enhance its applications engineering capabilities, increase the Company’s geographic proximity to its customers, drive initiatives for global sourcing of materials and seek the lowest cost of manufacturing. As more fully described below under “Changes in our Business,” we discontinued the remainder of our Consumer products business during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Except as otherwise noted, the descriptions of our business, and results and operations contained in this report reflect only our continuing operations. RECENT ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES The Company has consummated twelve acquisitions since June 2004 with a total purchase price exceeding $154,000. We believe our acquisitions will help the Company enhance long-term shareholder value by increasing growth in sales and profitability through the addition of new technologies, establishing new lines of business, and/or expanding our geographic footprint. The following acquisitions are included in the consolidated financial statements as of the effective date of acquisition (See Notes 2 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K): Acquired Company Effective Date of Acquisition Country Elekon Industries U.S.A., Inc. (‘Elekon’) June 24, 2004 U.S.A. Entran Devices, Inc. And Entran SA (‘Entran’) July 16, 2004 U.S.A. and France Encoder Devices, LLC (‘Encoder’) July 16, 2004 USA Humirel, SA (‘Humirel’) December 1, 2004 France MWS Sensorik GmbH (‘MWS’) January 1, 2005 Germany Polaron Components Ltd (‘Polaron’) February 1, 2005 United Kingdom HL Planartechnik GmbH (‘HLP’) November 30, 2005 Germany Assistance Technique Experimentale (‘ATEX’) January 19, 2006 France YSIS Incorporated (‘YSI Temperature’) April 1, 2006 U.S.A. and Japan BetaTherm Group Ltd. (‘BetaTherm’) April 1, 2006 Ireland and USA Visyx Technologies, Inc. (‘Visyx’) November 20, 2007 U.S.A. Intersema Microsystems SA (‘Intersema’) December 28, 2007 Switzerland The above companies, except for Encoder, Polaron and Visyx, which were asset purchases, became direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company upon consummation of their respective acquisitions. The Visyx and Intersema acquisitions occurred during fiscal 2008 (“2008 Acquisitions”). Visyx was a business purchased that consisted primarily of intellectual property and technology which augmented our product line with a range of sensors that measure fluid properties, including density, viscosity and dielectric constant, for use in heavy truck/off road engines and transmissions, compressors/turbines, refrigeration and air conditioning. The acquisition of Intersema further expanded our pressure sensors product line and technology modules capable of measuring low pressure, harsh media and ultra-small package configurations for use in barometric and sub-sea depth measurement markets. Effective December 1, 2005, we completed the sale of the Consumer segment to Fervent Group Limited (FGL), including its Cayman Island subsidiary, ML Cayman. FGL is a company controlled by the owners of River Display Limited (RDL), our long time partner and primary supplier of consumer products in Shenzhen, China. The Consumer Products segment designed and manufactured sensor-based consumer products, primarily as an original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”), that were sold to retailers and distributors in the United States and Europe. Consumer products included bathroom and kitchen scales, tire pressure gauges and distance estimators. 4 PRODUCTS, MARKETS AND APPLICATIONS The majority of our sensors are devices, sense elements and transducers that convert physical or mechanical information into a proportionate electronic signal for display, processing, interpretation or control. Sensors are essential to the accurate measurement, resolution and display of pressure, force, linear or rotary position, tilt, vibration, motion, humidity, temperature or fluid properties such as viscosity, density and dielectric constant. The sensor market is being influenced by the increase in intelligent products across virtually all end markets, including medical, transportation, energy, industrial, aerospace and consumer applications. As OEMs strive to make products “smarter”, they are generally adding more sensors to link the physical world with digital control and/or response. A summary of our Sensor business product offerings as of March 31, 2008 is presented in the following table. Group Product Family Product Technology Applications PFG Pressure Pressure Components, Sensors and Transducers Piezoresistive Micro-Electromechanical Systems (MEMS) Disposable catheter blood pressure altimeter, dive tank pressure, process instrumentation, fluid level, measurement and intravenous drug administration monitoring, racing engine performance, barometric pressure sensors (altimeters) Microfused TM Piezoresistive Silicon Strain Gage Automotive electronic stability control systems, paint spraying machines, fertilizer dispensers, hydraulics, refrigeration and automotive transmission Bonded Foil Strain Gage Instrumentation-grade aerospace and weapon control systems, sub-sea pressure, ship cargo level, steel mills Bonded Silicon Strain Gage Miniature and subminiature transducers for test and measurement applications in aerospace, auto testing and industry PFG Force Load Cells Microfused TM Piezoresistive Silicon Strain Gage Automotive occupancy weight sensing, bathroom scales, exercise equipment, appliance monitoring, intravenous drug administration monitoring PVG Position Linear Variable Differential Transformers Inductive Electromagnetic Aerospace, machine control systems, knitting machines, industrial process control, hydraulic actuators, instrumentation Rotary Position Transducers Inductive Electromagnetic Machine control systems, instrumentation MR sensors and Magnetic Encoders Magneto-Resistive (AMR) Automotive systems controls, pump counting and control, school bus stop sign arm position Tilt/Angle Sensors Fluid Capacitive or Electrolytic Fluid Heavy equipment level measurement, auto security systems, tire balancing, instrumentation 5 PVG Piezo Film Traffic Sensors Piezoelectric Polymer (PVDF) Traffic survey, speed and traffic light enforcement, toll, and truck weigh-in-motion Custom Piezoelectric Film Sensors Piezoelectric Polymer (PVDF) Medical diagnostics, ultrasonic pen digitizers, musical instrument pickups, electronic stethoscope, security systems, anti-tamper sensors for data protection, electronic water meters PVG Vibration Accelerometers Micro-Electromechanical Systems instrumentation Crash test sensors, anthropomorphic dummy sensors, road load dynamics, aerospace traffic alert and collision avoidance systems, instrumentation Accelerometers Piezoelectric Polymer (PVDF) Cardiac activity sensors, audio speaker feedback, appliance load balancing HTG Humidity Relative Humidity Sensors Capacitive Polymer Auto anti-fogging systems, diesel engine controls, air climate systems, reprography machines, respirators Fluid Properties Fluid Monitoring Sensors Quartz Mechanical Resonator (Tuning Fork) Heavy truck/off-road engine and transmission fluid monitoring for viscosity, density and dielectric constant HTG Temperature Thermistors & RTDs (Resistance Temperature Detector) Negative Temperature Co-efficient (NTC) Thermistors, Infrared (IR), Nickel RTD Patient monitoring and diagnostics, gas chromatography, HVAC & R, and non-contacting thermometers, microwave and convection oven controls, gas detection HTG Photo Optics Pulse Oximetry Sensors (SpO 2 ); X-Ray Detection Photo optic infra-red light absorption Reusable and disposable patient blood oxygen and pulse sensors, security system and CT scanner sensor arrays TECHNOLOGY The Company has a broad portfolio of technologies available to solve client sensing needs, some of which are proprietary to the Company. Our sensor technologies include: · PIEZORESISTIVE TECHNOLOGY. This technology is widely used for the measurement of pressure, load and acceleration, and we believe its use in these applications is expanding significantly, particularly in the form of micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS). Piezoresistive materials, most often silicon, respond to changes in applied mechanical variables such as stress, strain, or pressure by changing electrical conductivity (resistance). Changes in electrical conductivity can be readily detected in circuits by changes in current with a constant applied voltage, or conversely by changes in voltage with a constant supplied current. Silicon MEMS systems have several advantages over their conventionally manufactured counterparts. By leveraging existing silicon manufacturing technology, micro-electromechanical systems allow for the cost-effective manufacture of small devices with high reliability and superior performance. · APPLICATION SPECIFIC INTEGRATED CIRCUITS (“ASICS”). These circuits convert analog electrical signals into digital signals for measurement, computation or transmission. Application specific integrated circuits are well suited for use in both consumer and new sensor products because they can be designed to operate from a relatively small power source, are inexpensive and can improve system accuracy. · PIEZOELECTRIC POLYMER TECHNOLOGY. Piezoelectric materials (such as polyvinylidene fluoride, “PVDF”) convert mechanical stress or strain into proportionate electrical energy, and conversely, these materials mechanically expand or contract when voltages of opposite polarities are applied. Piezoelectric polymer films are also pyroelectric, converting heat into electrical charge. These polymer films offer unique sensor design and performance opportunities because they are thin, flexible, inert, broadband, and relatively inexpensive. This technology is ideal for applications where the use of rigid sensors would not be possible or cost-effective. · STRAIN GAGE TECHNOLOGY. A strain gauge consists of a base substrate material that will change its electrical properties with induced stress or strain (such as bulk silicon). The foil is etched to produce a grid pattern that is sensitive to changes in geometry, usually length, along the sensitive axis producing a change in resistance. The gauge is bonded to a sensing element surface which it will monitor. The gauge operates through a direct conversion of strain to a change in gauge resistance. This technology is useful for the construction of reliable pressure and force sensors. The Company also manufactures a proprietary strain gauge called Microfused™ in which the diaphragm in contact with the media is fused to a silicon sensing element with glass at high temperatures for a hermetic seal appropriate for harsh environments. 6 · FORCE BALANCE TECHNOLOGY. A force-balanced accelerometer is a mass referenced device that under the application of tilt or linear acceleration, detects the resulting change in position of the internal mass by a position sensor and an error signal is produced. This error signal is passed to a servo amplifier and a current developed is fed back into a moving coil. This current is proportional to the applied tilt angle or applied linear acceleration and will balance the mass back to its original position. These devices are used in military and industrial applications where high accuracy is required. · FLUID CAPACITIVE TECHNOLOGY. This technology is also referred to as fluid filled, variable capacitance. The output from the sensing element is two variable capacitance signals per axis. Rotation of the sensor about its sensitive axis produces a linear change in capacitance. This change in capacitance is electronically converted into angular data, and provides the user with a choice of ratio metric, analog, digital, or serial output signals. These signals can be easily interfaced to a number of readout and/or data collection systems. · LINEAR VARIABLE DIFFERENTIAL TRANSFORMERS (“LVDT”). An LVDT is an electromechanical sensor that produces an electrical signal proportional to the displacement of a separate movable core. LVDT’s are widely used as measurement and control sensors wherever displacements of a few micro inches to several feet can be measured directly, or where mechanical input, such as force or pressure, can be converted into linear displacement. LVDT’s are capable of extremely accurate and repeatable measurements in severe environments. · MAGNETO-RESISTIVE (MR) TECHNOLOGY. MR sensors are used to measure small changes in magnetic fields. A rotation of the magnetization of thin film stripes made of magnetic permalloy (Ni 81 FE 19 ) in x-direction takes place when a magnetic field in y-direction is applied due to the magneto resistive effect. MR sensors are highly sensitive, stable, repeatable and relatively low cost. MR sensing technology can be packaged as low field sensors (i.e., electronic compass), angle sensors such as magnetic encoders, position sensors, or current sensors (i.e., for battery management). · ELECTROLYTIC FLUID TECHNOLOGY. To create an inclination sensor, a small chamber is partially filled with an electrolytic liquid. Platinum electrodes are deposited in pairs on the base of the sensor’s cell parallel to the sensitive axis. When an alternating voltage is passed between two electrodes, the electric current will create a dispersed field. By tilting the sensor and thereby reducing the level of the liquid, it is possible to confine this stray field. Because of the constant, specific conductivity of the electrolytes, a variance of resistance is formed in relation to the liquid level. A basic differential principle will yield an angle of inclination from the polarity signs. This technology is durable, highly repeatable and relatively low cost compared with alternate technologies. · INFRARED SENSING. Measurement Specialties uses thermopiles to measure temperature without contact through infrared (IR) radiation. All objects emit IR radiation, with energy increasing based on increased surface temperatures (Planck’s law). Thermopiles are created by lining up multiple thermocouples in series. If a temperature difference is induced between a hot junction connecting two thermocouples and their open ends (cold junctions), a voltage is created, allowing the thermopile to transduce the IR radiation into a voltage measure (while factoring for ambient temperature). Miniaturization and batch fabrication on micro-machined silicon wafers enable low cost devices, which can also be used for gas detection. · VARIABLE CAPACITIVE. Humidity technology is based upon variable capacitive affecting a sensitive polymer layer under changing ambient humidity conditions. This technology is uniquely designed for high volume OEM applications in consumer markets, automotive, home appliance and environmental control. · PHOTO OPTICS. Photo-Optic sensors use light to measure different parameters such as position, reflectance, color and many others. At present our main application is in non-invasive medical sensing, specifically pulse oximetry, also known as SpO2. · ULTRASONIC TECHNOLOGY. Ultrasonic sensors measure distance by calculating the time delay between transmitting and receiving an acoustic signal that is inaudible to the human ear. This technology allows for the quick, easy, and accurate measurement of distances between two points without physical contact. · TEMPERATURE. Negative temperature co-efficient (“NTC”) thermistors offer high-end precision temperature sensors by exhibiting a change in electrical resistance in response to a change in ambient temperature conditions. · MECHANICAL RESONATOR: A mechanical resonator, or tuning fork, changes frequency response while submersed in a fluid as the properties of the fluid (density, viscosity and dielectric constant) change. 7 BUSINESS SEGMENTS As a result of the sale of our Consumer Products business segment, the Sensor business segment is our sole reportable segment, under the guidelines established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information because of among other things, the criteria for aggregation. To improve the ownership and accountability on top-to-bottom results, effective fiscal 2008 the Company organized its product families into three business “Groups”, with each Group having responsibility for sales, engineering, operations and customer service of their respective products. The three business groups are PFG (Pressure/Force), PVG (Position/Piezo and Vibration), and HTG (Humidity/Chemical Gas/Temperature/Optical). A Group Vice President has been assigned overall strategic and profit/loss responsibility for the particular Group, with finance/accounting, supply chain/information systems and strategic sourcing remaining functional, shared resources. Geographic information, excluding discontinued operations, for revenues based on country from which invoiced, and long-lived assets based on country of location, which includes property, plant and equipment, but excludes intangible assets and goodwill, net of related depreciation and amortization follows: For the years ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Net Sales: United States $ 107,734 $ 106,476 $ 68,704 France 28,021 21,576 17,379 Germany 19,323 15,587 4,651 Ireland 12,969 11,002 - Switzerland 4,396 - - China 55,940 45,609 30,683 Total: $ 228,383 $ 200,250 $ 121,417 Long lived assets: United States $ 6,624 $ 5,969 $ 4,230 France 6,808 5,194 4,189 Germany 2,817 1,865 4,239 Ireland 4,263 3,550 - Switzerland 2,418 - - Asia 17,785 10,981 9,428 Total: $ 40,715 $ 27,559 $ 22,086 The above table reflects a break-out of foreign operations which has been made to prior year amounts previously reported to conform with current year presentation. CUSTOMERS We sell our sensor products throughout the world. We design, manufacture and market sensors for original equipment manufacturer applications and for end users who use them for instrumentation and test applications. Our extensive customer base consists of manufacturers of electronic, automotive, medical, military, industrial and consumer products. Our largest customer, Sensata, a large automotive sensor supplier, accounted for approximately 18% of our net sales during fiscal 2008, approximately 15% of our net sales during fiscal 2007, and approximately 18% of our net sales during fiscal 2006. At March 31, 2008, the trade receivable with Sensata was approximately $5,446. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of our net sales during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. SALES AND DISTRIBUTION We sell our sensor products through a combination of experienced regional sales managers, distributors and (generally) exclusive relationships with outside sales representatives throughout the world. Our engineering teams work directly with our global customers to tailor our sensors to meet their specific application requirements. We sell our products primarily in North America, Asia and Western Europe. The international component of our sales has grown with recent acquisitions. In addition, we believe the growing Asian market represents a significant opportunity for our business. Sales invoiced from foreign countries accounted for approximately 53% of net sales for the fiscal year ended March, 31, 2008, 47% of net sales for the fiscal year ended March, 31, 2007, and 43% of net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. SUPPLIERS We procure components and finished products from a variety of suppliers as needed through purchase orders. We actively manage this process to ensure component quality, steady supply and best costing, while managing hazardous materials content for compliance with European Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (“ROHS”) regulations. We source our assembly of photo optic products from a single contract manufacturer. 8 Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including steel, copper, cast iron, electronic components, aluminum, and plastics. We purchase raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world. No single raw material supplier is material, although some of the components we use require particular specifications where a limited number of suppliers exist that can supply such components. Market forces have driven significant increases in the costs of steel and petroleum-based products over the last three years, and the costs of certain precious and non-ferrous metals have also generally increased over the last eighteen months. We have attempted to mitigate the impact of the cost increases through supply-chain initiatives or to pass a portion of these increases on to customers in the form of price increases. For a further discussion of risks related to the materials and components required for our operations, please refer to “Foreign Operations” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our research and development efforts are focused on expanding our core technologies, improving our existing products by enhancing functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability, developing new products and designing custom sensors for specific customer applications. To maintain and improve our competitive position, our research, design, and engineering teams work in close association with customers to design custom sensors for specific applications. Research and development costs approximated $9,852 or 4.3% of net sales for fiscal 2008, $9,235 or 4.6% of net sales for fiscal 2007, and $6,450 or 5.3% of net sales for fiscal 2006. We expect to continue to make significant investment in research and development expenditures in order to provide innovative new products to our customers and to maintain and improve our competitive position. Customer funded research and development was $1,018, $786, and $448 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. COMPETITION The global market for sensors includes many diverse products and technologies, is highly fragmented and is subject to moderate to high pricing pressures, depending on the end markets and level of customization. Most of our competitors are small independent companies or divisions of large corporations such as Danaher, General Electric, Schneider-Electric and Honeywell. The principal elements of competition in the sensor market are technology and production capability, price, quality, service, and the ability to design unique applications to meet specific customer needs. Although we believe that we compete favorably, new product introductions by our competitors could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance for our existing products. If competitors introduce more technologically advanced products, the demand for our products would likely be reduced. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely in part on patents to protect our intellectual property. We own 51 United States utility and design patents and 53 foreign patents to protect our rights in certain applications of our core technology. We have 42 patent applications pending. These patent applications may never result in issued patents. Even if these applications result in patents being issued, taken together with our existing patents, they may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary rights, or they may prove unenforceable. We have not obtained patents for all of our innovations, nor do we plan to do so. We also rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, we seek to protect our proprietary information by using confidentiality agreements with certain employees, sales representatives, consultants, advisors, customers and others. We cannot be certain that these agreements will adequately protect our proprietary rights in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure, that our employees, sales representatives, consultants, advisors, customers or others will maintain the confidentiality of such proprietary information, or that our competitors will not otherwise learn about or independently develop such proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized third parties may copy aspects of our products, violate our patents or use our proprietary information. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The loss of any material trademark, trade name, trade secret, patent right, or copyright could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that our products do not infringe on the rights of third parties. However, we cannot be certain that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future or that any such assertion will not result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to third party intellectual property. In addition, we cannot be certain that such licenses will be available on reasonable terms or at all, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. FOREIGN OPERATIONS Our products are manufactured and marketed worldwide. Our geographic diversity enables us to leverage our cost structure and supply-chain, promote economies of scale, and affords a broader and diverse sales base. We manufacture a large portion of our sensor products in Shenzhen, China. Sensors are also manufactured at our U.S. facilities in Hampton, VA, Dayton, OH and Fremont, CA, as well as our European facilities in Galway, Ireland, Toulouse, France, Les Clayes-sous-Bois, France, Dortmund, Germany and Bevaix, Switzerland. A large portion of our NTC thermistors, discrete and probe assemblies are manufactured in China by Betacera Inc., a subcontractor with a long-standing contractual relationship with the Company. Our pulse oximetry sensors are sourced from a single supplier, Opto Circuits India Limited (“Opto”), in Karnatake, India. Many of our products contain key components that are obtained from a limited number of sources. These concentrations in external and foreign sources of supply present risks of interruption for reasons beyond our control, including political and other uncertainties regarding China and India. 9 A substantial portion of our revenues are priced in United States dollars. Most of our costs and expenses are priced in United States dollars, with the remainder priced in Chinese renminbi, Euros, Swiss francs and Japanese yen. Accordingly, the competitiveness of our products relative to products produced locally (in foreign markets) may be affected by the performance of the United States dollar compared with that of our foreign customers’ currencies. We are exposed to foreign currency transaction and translation losses, which might result from adverse fluctuations in the value of the Euro, Chinese renminbi, Swiss franc, and Japanese yen. The following table details annual consolidated net sales and the respective amount as a percentage of consolidated net sales invoiced from our facilities within and outside of the U.S. for the previous three years, as well as the U.S. dollar equivalent of net assets for the respective functional currencies: For the years ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Net sales: U.S. facilities $ 107,734 $ 106,476 $ 68,704 U.S. facilities % of sales 47 % 53 % 57 % Non-U.S. facilities $ 120,649 $ 93,774 $ 52,713 Non-U.S. facilities % of sales 53 % 47 % 43 % Net assets (liabilities): U.S. dollar $ 49,082 $ 40,547 $ 46,956 Chinese renminbi 17,306 23,810 18,503 Hong Kong dollar 63,827 40,981 30,269 Euro 19,562 12,285 (231 ) Japanese yen 3,787 3,014 - Swiss franc 2,225 - - The above table reflects certain reclassifications which have been made to prior year amounts previously reported to conform to current year presentation. U.S. dollar net assets for 2007 previously included Japanese yen and current year presentation separately reports Japanese yen amounts. The renminbi has appreciated by 2.7%, 4.0%, and 9% during 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. The Chinese government announced that it will no longer peg the renminbi to the U.S. dollar, but established a currency policy letting the renminbi trade in a narrow band against a basket of currencies. The Company has more expenditures in renminbi than sales denominated in renminbi, and as such, when the US dollar weakens relative to the renminbi, our operating profits decrease. Based on our net exposure of renminbi to U.S. dollars for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and forecast information for fiscal 2009, we estimate a negative operating income impact of approximately $186 for every 1% appreciation in renminbi against the U.S. dollar (assuming no price increases passed to customers, and no associated cost increases or currency hedging). We continue to consider various alternatives to hedge this exposure, and have considered, but do not currently use, foreign currency contracts as a hedging strategy. We are attempting to manage this exposure through, among other things, pricing and monitoring balance sheet exposures for payables and receivables. The Company’s French and Germany subsidiaries have more sales in Euro than expenses in Euro and the Company’s Swiss subsidiary has more expenses in Swiss franc than sales, and as such, if the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the Euro and Swiss franc, our operating profits increase in France and Germany but decline in Switzerland. Based on the net exposures of Euros and Swiss francs to the U.S. dollar for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, we estimate a positive operating income impact of $42 in Euros and a negative operating income impact of $30 for every 1% appreciation in Euro and Swiss franc, respectively, relative to the U.S. dollar (assuming no price increases passed to customers, and associated cost increases or currency hedging). There can be no assurance that these currencies will remain stable or will fluctuate to our benefit. To manage our exposure to potential foreign currency, transaction and translation risks, we may purchase currency exchange forward contracts, currency options, or other derivative instruments, provided such instruments may be obtained at suitable prices. We do have a number of foreign exchange currency contracts in Europe, as disclosed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. EMPLOYEES As of March 31, 2008, we had 2,428 employees, including 317 in the United States, 437 in the European Union, and 1,674 in Asia. As of March 31, 2008, 1,819 employees were engaged in manufacturing, 255 were engaged in administration, 227 were engaged in engineering and 127 were engaged in sales and marketing. Our employees in the U.S., Europe and Asia are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our employee relations are good. 10 ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS We are subject to comprehensive and changing foreign, federal, state, and local environmental requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with current environmental requirements. Nevertheless, we use hazardous substances in our operations, and as is the case with manufacturers in general, if a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our properties, we may be held liable, and may be required to pay the cost of remedying the condition. The amount of any resulting liability could be material. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with the European and UK Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) environmental directive which became effective July 1, 2006 for "the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.” Our business and our customers may be subject to requirements under the European Commission’s Proposal for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”). REACH imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. Additionally, substances of high concern are subject to an authorization process per application. Authorization may result in restrictions in the use of products by application or even prohibitions on the manufacture or importation of products. REACH came into effect on June 1, 2007. The regulations impose additional burdens on chemical producers, importers, downstream users of chemical substances and preparations, and the entire supply chain. However, our manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union will likely require us to incur additional compliance costs and may result in increases in the costs of raw materials we purchase and the products we sell. EXPORT/IMPORT COMPLIANCE We are required to comply with various export/import control and economic sanctions laws, including: • The International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) administered by the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which, among other things, imposes license requirements on the export from the United States of defense articles and defense services (which are items specifically designed or adapted for a military application and/or listed on the United States Munitions List); • the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which, among other things, impose licensing requirements on the export or re-export of certain dual-use goods, technology and software (which are items that potentially have both commercial and military applications); • the regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, which implement economic sanctions imposed against designated countries, governments and persons based on United States foreign policy and national security considerations; and • the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Non-United States governments have also implemented similar export and import control regulations, which may affect our operations or transactions subject to their jurisdictions. For a discussion of risks related to export/import control and economic sanctions laws, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” BACKLOG At March 31, 2008, the dollar amount of backlog orders believed to be firm was approximately $70,058. Backlog from acquisitions completed during fiscal 2008 that were included as part of the March 31, 2008 backlog disclosure accounts for $2,840 of this backlog. We include in backlog orders that have been accepted from customers that have not been filled or shipped and are supported with a purchase order. It is expected that the majority of these orders will be shipped during the next 12 months. At March 31, 2007, our backlog of unfilled orders was approximately $62,826. We believe that backlog may not be indicative of actual sales for the current fiscal year or any succeeding period. WORKING CAPITAL We maintain adequate working capital to support our business requirements. There are no unusual industry practices or requirements relating to working capital items. 11 SEASONALITY As a whole, there is no material seasonality in our sales. However, general economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results, and certain end-use markets experience certain seasonality. For example, European sales are often lower in summer months and OEM sales are often stronger immediately preceding and following the introduction of new products. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We maintain an Internet website at the following address: www.meas-spec.com. The information on or that may be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available on or through our website certain reports and amendments to those reports that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. We make this information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Careful consideration should be given to the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, a global economic slowdown, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. An investment in our common stock is speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. No investment in our common stock should be made by any person who is not in a position to lose the entire amount of such investment. In addition to being subject to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks described below under “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” an investment in our common stock is subject to the risks and uncertainties described below. IF WE DO NOT DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MEET THE NEEDS OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND OUR NET SALES MAY DECLINE. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and introduce new sensor products and product line extensions. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products in a timely manner, our net sales will suffer. The development of new products involves highly complex processes, and at times we have experienced delays in the introduction of new products. Since many of our sensor products are designed for specific applications, we must frequently develop new products jointly with our customers. We are dependent on the ability of our customers to successfully develop, manufacture and market products that include our sensors. Successful product development and introduction of new products depends on a number of factors, including the following: · accurate product specification; · timely completion of design; · achievement of manufacturing yields; · timely, quality and cost-effective production; and · effective marketing. WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL NET SALES AND OPERATIONS OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, INCLUDING SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS IN CHINA AND EUROPE THAT EXPOSE US TO INTERNATIONAL RISKS. Our international operations represent a substantial portion of our net sales, total assets and net assets. Our foreign operating subsidiaries are in China, Hong Kong, Japan and Europe, and as such, we are exposed to, among other things, foreign currency transaction and translation losses with the Chinese renminbi, Hong Kong dollar, Euro, Japanese yen and Swiss franc. Our foreign subsidiaries’ operations reflect intercompany transfers of costs and expenses, including interest on intercompany trade receivables, at amounts established by us. We manufacture the majority of our sensor products in China. Our China subsidiary is subject to certain government regulations, including currency exchange controls, which limit the subsidiary’s ability to pay cash dividends or lend funds to us. The inability to operate in China or the imposition of significant restrictions, taxes, or tariffs on our operations in China would impair our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective manner and could reduce our profitability significantly. 12 Risks specific to our international operations include: · political conflict and instability in the relationships among Hong-Kong, Taiwan, China, the United States and in our target international markets; · political instability and economic turbulence in Asian markets; · changes in United States and foreign regulatory requirements resulting in burdensome controls, tariffs and import and export restrictions; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could make our products more expensive as stated in local currency, as compared to competitive products priced in the local currency; · enforceability of contracts and other rights or collectability of accounts receivable in foreign countries due to distance and different legal systems; · delays or cancellation of production and delivery of our products due to the logistics of international shipping, which could damage our relationships with our customers; · a recurrence of the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) or Avian Flu and the associated risks to our operations in China; and · legislative initiatives, including tax legislation and other changes in the Company’s tax position, including tax policy changes in China, which could affect the profitability of our operations in China. China has enacted higher tax rates effective January 1, 2008. If the Company does not receive the annual special tax status in China, our rates could be between 18% and 25%. RAPID GROWTH BRINGS RISKS AND CHALLENGES ASSOCIATED WITH GROWTH. Visibility into our markets is limited, and forecasting is difficult by its nature. The rapid growth of our business through a combination of organic and acquisitive means creates a unique set of challenges which include: · managing inventory from acquired companies as well as inventory required for new programs; · prioritizing the right engineering programs so new opportunities are harvested without losing business in smaller, more stable lines of business; · managing a growing end user business alongside a robust and larger OEM business; · building infrastructure and the management team to support growth of the business in new geographies, especially Europe and Asia; · maintaining a rapidly changing balance sheet to optimize debt to equity and working capital ratios; and · finalizing the construction of the new China factory and the transition from one facility to the new facility. COMMODITY PRICES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices. We are a buyer of steel, non-ferrous metals and petroleum-based products, as well as other commodities required for the manufacture of products. As a result, changes in commodity prices and our inability to pass such increases on to our customers may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, market forces have driven significant increases in the costs of steel and petroleum-based products over the last three years, and the costs of certain precious and non-ferrous metals have also generally increased over the last eighteen months. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN AND PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND AVOID CLAIMS OF INFRINGEMENT OR MISUSE OF THIRD PARTY INTELECTUAL PROPERTY. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our operations. The steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated or circumvented, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. In addition, from time to time in the usual course of business, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. In the event of a successful claim against us, we could lose our rights to needed technology or be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights, any of which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Even where we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. 13 WE ARE SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF LITIGATION IN THE COURSE OF OUR BUSINESS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are subject to or could be subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, warranty and recall claims, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters and acquisition-related matters. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition, operations and results of operations. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO REGULATION, AND FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THOSE REGULATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND REPUTATION. We are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental entities and other entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: • Certain of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot give assurance that we have been or will be at all times in substantial compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. • We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. • Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), by counterpart agencies of other countries and by regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials. Violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products can lead to warning letters, declining sales, recalls, seizures, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre-market notification rescissions. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization (ISO), and failure to comply with these rules can also adversely impact our business. • We also have agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. Our agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. In addition, failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS WE SERVE IS INTENSE AND COULD REDUCE OUR NET SALES AND HARM OUR BUSINESS. Highly fragmented markets and high levels of competition characterize our business. Despite recent consolidations, including the acquisition of several smaller competitors of ours by larger competitors like General Electric, Honeywell, Schneider-Electric and Danaher Corporation, the sensor industry remains highly fragmented. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have a number of significant advantages over us, including: · greater financial, technical, marketing, and manufacturing resources; · preferred vendor status with our existing and potential customer base; · more extensive distribution channels and a broader geographic scope; · larger customer bases; and · a faster response time to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. 14 OUR TRANSFER PRICING PROCEDURES MAY BE CHALLENGED, WHICH MAY SUBJECT US TO HIGHER TAXES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. Transfer pricing refers to the prices that one member of a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services, or the use of intellectual property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those charged by unrelated companies dealing with each other at arm’s length. If one or more of the countries in which our affiliated companies are located believes that transfer prices were manipulated by our affiliate companies in a way that distorts the true taxable income of the companies, the laws of countries where our affiliated companies are located could require us to re-determine transfer prices and thereby reallocate the income of our affiliate companies in order to reflect these transfer prices. Any reallocation of income from one of our companies in a lower tax jurisdiction to an affiliated company in a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher overall tax liability to us. Moreover, if the country from which the income is being reallocated does not agree to the reallocation, the same income could be subject to taxation by both countries. We have adopted transfer-pricing procedures with our subsidiaries to regulate inter-company transfers. Our procedures call for the transfer of goods, services, or intellectual property from one company to a related company at prices that we believe are at arm’s length. We have established these procedures due to the fact that some of our assets, such as intellectual property developed in the United States, are transferred among our affiliated companies. If the United States Internal Revenue Service or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully require changes to our transfer pricing practices, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. Any determination of income reallocation or modification of transfer pricing laws can result in an income tax assessment on the portion of income deemed to be derived from the United States or other taxing jurisdiction. PRESSURE BY OUR CUSTOMERS TO REDUCE PRICES MAY CAUSE OUR NET SALES OR PROFIT MARGINS TO DECLINE. Our customers are under pressure to reduce prices of their products. Therefore, we expect to experience pressure from our customers to reduce the prices of our products. We believe that we must reduce our manufacturing costs and obtain larger orders to offset declining average sales prices. If we are unable to offset declining average sales prices, our gross profit margins will decline. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONSUMMATE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS OR SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE ACQUISTIONS INTO OUR BUSINESS AND INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS IN OUR ACQUISTION AGREEMENTS BY WHICH WE HAVE ACQUIRED COMPANIES MAY NOT FULLY PROTECT US AND MAY RESULT IN UNEXPECTED LIABILITIES. We have made twelve acquisitions since fiscal 2005. As a part of our business strategy, we may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our growth strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete proposed acquisitions that will not generate benefits for us. In addition, with future acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. We could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause significant stockholder dilution. Our prior acquisitions and any future acquisitions may not ultimately help us achieve our strategic goals and may pose other risks to us. Conversely, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions at a similar rate as to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate. Our ability to grow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings. In addition, changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or any further deterioration in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions or change the accounting treatment for acquisitions. For example, as a result of the recently issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 141 (Revised 2007), Business Combinations, which will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, we will be required to expense certain acquisition-related items that under current accounting are capitalized as part of the purchase price. As a result of our previous acquisitions, we have added several different decentralized operating and accounting systems, resulting in a complex reporting environment. While we strive to quickly integrate all of our acquisitions to one enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform and management reporting/analysis information systems, we expect that we will need to continue to modify our accounting policies, internal controls, procedures and compliance programs to provide consistency across all of our operations, in order to increase efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate visibility into our decentralized operations. 15 We are entitled to certain indemnification rights under the agreements by which we have acquired companies. If circumstances arise under which we believe we are entitled to indemnification, the indemnifying party may not agree with our assertion as to our rights to indemnification under the circumstances and we may increase our accruals and corresponding costs. OUR REPUTATION AND OUR ABILITY TO DO BUSINESS MAY BE IMPAIRED BY IMPROPER CONDUCT BY ANY OF OUR EMPLOYEES, AGENTS OR BUSINESS PARTNERS. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, competition, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation. CHANGES IN OUR TAX RATES OR EXPOSURE TO ADDITIONAL INCOME TAX LIABILITES COULD AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. IN ADDITION, AUDITS BY TAX AUTHORITIES COULD RESULT IN ADDITIONAL TAX PAYMENTS FOR PRIOR PERIODS. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. IF WE CANNOT OBTAIN SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES OF MATERIALS, COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT FOR OUR MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES ON A TIMELY BASIS AND AT COMPETITIVE PRICING AND QUALITY, OR IF OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY DOES NOT MEET DEMAND, OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS WILL SUFFER. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Some of our businesses purchase their requirements of certain of these items from sole or limited source suppliers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed our production requirements or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. OUR INABILITY TO HIRE, TRAIN AND RETAIN A SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF SKILLED OFFICERS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES COULD IMPEDE OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY. If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, we may not be able to achieve cost savings and other initiatives to profitably grow our business, effectively integrate acquired businesses, or realize anticipated results from those businesses. CYCLICAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS HAVE AFFECTED AND MAY CONTINUE TO ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Certain of our businesses operate in industries that have historically experienced periodic downturns, which have adversely impacted demand for the equipment and services that we manufacture and market. Any competitive pricing pressures, slowdown in capital investments or other downturn in these industries could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in any given period. IF WE SUFFER LOSS TO OUR FACILITIES OR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM DUE TO A CATASTROPHE, OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. Our facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. OUR INDEBTEDNESS MAY LIMIT OUR USE OF OUR CASH FLOW AND CHANGES IN THE CREDIT MARKETS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE AVAILABILITY AND COST OF ADDITIONAL DEBT. 16 We have incurred debt to finance most of our acquisitions, and we may also incur additional debt. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: • requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes; • reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and • exposing us to interest rate risk, since a large portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. We may incur significantly more debt in the future. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. In addition, any further deterioration in the credit markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of future debt. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 