ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in economic conditions or interest rates may negatively affect our earnings, capital and liquidity. The results of operations for financial institutions, including our banks, may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing local and national economic conditions, including declines in real estate market values, rapid increases or decreases in interest rates and changes in the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is heavily influenced by the spread between the interest rates we earn on investments and loans and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Substantially all our loans are to businesses and individuals in Michigan and any decline in the economy of this area could adversely affect us. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. Our credit losses could increase and our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have a material adverse affect on our earnings and overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, thereby having an adverse affect on our operating results, and may cause us to increase the allowance in the future. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot now be determined and may exceed the amounts of past provisions. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for credit losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or to recognize further loan or lease charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for credit losses could have a negative effect on our net income, financial condition and results of operations. - 10 - Our business is subject to various lending risks depending on the nature of the borrower’s business, its cash flow and our collateral. Repayment of our commercial loans is often dependent on cash flow of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. Other collateral securing loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our commercial real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans, and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. Commercial real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts, and the repayment of these loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operating and management of the properties, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs to construct and value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. Delays in completing the project may arise from labor problems, material shortages and other unpredictable contingencies. If the estimate of the cash of construction is inaccurate, we may be required to advance additional funds to complete construction. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of the project. Our consumer loans generally have a higher risk of default than our other loans. Consumer loans may involve greater risk than our other loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of damage, loss or depreciation. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower beyond obtaining a deficiency judgment. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus, are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy, all of which increase when the economy is weak. Furthermore, the application of various Federal and state laws, including Federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on such loans. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth. To sustain our continued growth, we require additional capital to fund our expanding lending activities and any bank or branch acquisitions. We may acquire banks and related businesses that we believe provide a strategic fit with our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage such growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses involves risks commonly associated with acquisitions. We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely effect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Presidents of each of our banks, and our other senior managers and commercial lenders. Losing one or more key members of the management team could adversely affect our operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our officers or directors. - 11 - Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based and out-of-state banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities which provide financial services. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. Many of our competitors have been in business for many years, are larger and have higher lending limits than we do. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. We are subject to significant government regulation, and any regulatory changes may adversely affect us. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. These regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, not our creditors or shareholders. As a bank holding company, we are also subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Reserve, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory organizations. Our ability to establish new facilities or make acquisitions is conditioned upon the receipt of the required regulatory approvals from these organizations. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of such changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws and Michigan laws contain certain provisions that could make a takeover more difficult. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws, and the laws of Michigan, include provisions which are designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our best interest and the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then-current price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains provisions intended to protect shareholders and prohibit or discourage certain types of hostile takeover activities. In addition to these provisions and the provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, Federal law requires the Federal Reserve Board’s approval prior to acquisition of “control” of a bank holding company. All of these provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control at the company level without action by our shareholders, and therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. - 12 - Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and contract. We are a holding company and substantially all of our assets are held by our banks. Our ability to continue to make dividend payments to our shareholders will depend primarily on available cash resources at the holding company and dividends from our banks. Dividend payments or extensions of credit from our banks are subject to regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and current and retained earnings, imposed by regulatory agencies with authority over our banks. The ability of our banks to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. We also are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the required payments on our subordinated debentures have not been made. We cannot assure you that our banks will be able to pay dividends to us in the future. The market price for our common stock fluctuates. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, and the overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. There may be a significant impact on the market price for our common stock due to, among other things: • Variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors; • Changes in investors’ or analysts’ perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business; • The size of the public float of our common stock; • Regulatory developments; • Market conditions; and • General economic conditions. Additionally, the average daily trading volume for our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market is relatively low compared to larger companies whose shares trade on Nasdaq. There can be no assurance that a more active or consistent trading market in our common stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved SEC comments with respect to reports filed by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 