Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Corporation’s common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. 12 Table of Contents Our Articles Of Incorporation, Bylaws, and Certain Banking Laws May Have An Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the Corporation’s articles of incorporation, bylaws, and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Corporation, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Corporation’s shareholders. The combination of these provisions may prohibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. Risks Associated With The Corporation’s Industry We Operate In A Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and internet banks within the various markets the Corporation operates. The Corporation also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Corporation can. The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards, and safe, sound assets. • The ability to expand the Corporation’s market position. • The scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which the Corporation introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. • Customer satisfaction with the Corporation’s level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Corporation’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Earnings Of Financial Services Companies Are Significantly Affected By General Business And Economic Conditions The Corporation’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Corporation operates, all of which are beyond the Corporation’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values, and a decrease in demand for the Corporation’s products and services, among other 13 Table of Contents things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Financial Services Companies Depend On The Accuracy And Completeness Of Information About Customers And Counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Corporation may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. The Corporation may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause us to enter into unfavorable transactions, which would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Consumers May Decide Not To Use Banks To Complete Their Financial Transactions Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 