Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive, highly regulated and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to either predict all risk factors, or assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect our business. Our business and operations, including our ability to market VOIs, is subject to general economic conditions, as well as interest rates and the availability of financing. Our business has been adversely affected by unfavorable general economic and industry conditions, including high unemployment rates and job insecurity, declines in discretionary spending, housing values and availability of financing, and geopolitical conflicts. If recent recovery trends do not continue or, economic conditions deteriorate, our business and results may be adversely impacted, particularly if financing for us or for our customers is unavailable or if changes in general economic conditions or other factors adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay amounts owed under notes receivable. Further, adverse changes affecting the vacation ownership industry, such as an oversupply of vacation ownership units, a reduction in demand for such units, changes in travel and vacation patterns, changes in governmental regulation of the industry, imposition of increased taxes by governmental authorities, the declaration of bankruptcy and/or credit defaults by other vacation ownership companies and negative publicity for the industry, could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We would incur substantial losses and our liquidity position could be adversely impacted if the customers to whom we provide financing default on their obligations. Prior to December 15, 2008, we did not perform credit checks on the purchasers of our VOIs in connection with our financing of their purchases. Effective December 15, 2008, we implemented a FICO® score-based credit underwriting program. We enhanced this credit underwriting program during January 2010. While our loan portfolio originated after December 15, 2008 has to date experienced defaults at a lower rate than loans originated prior to that date, our FICO® score-based underwriting standards may not continue to result in decreased default rates or otherwise result in the improved performance of our notes receivable. Adverse conditions in the mortgage industry, including both credit sources as well as borrowers’ financial profiles, and other factors outside our control may increase the default rates we experience or otherwise negatively impact the performance of our notes receivable. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 4% of our VOI notes receivable were more than 30 days past due. Although in many cases we may have recourse against a buyer for the unpaid purchase price, certain states have laws that limit our ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans or the cost of doing so may not be justified. Historically, we have generally not pursued such recourse against our customers. In the case of our notes receivable secured by VOIs, if we are unable to collect the defaulted amount due, we traditionally have terminated the customer’s interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club and then remarketed the recovered VOI. Irrespective of our remedy in the event of a default, we cannot recover the marketing, selling and administrative costs associated with the original sale. In addition, we will need to incur such costs again in order to resell the VOI. If default rates for our borrowers remain at current levels or increase, we may be required to increase our provision for credit losses. In addition, it may cause buyers of, or lenders whose loans are secured by, our VOI notes receivable to reduce the amount of availability under receivables purchase and credit facilities, or to increase the interest costs associated with such facilities. In such an event, the cost of financing may increase and we may not be able to secure financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which would adversely affect our earnings, financial position and liquidity. Under the terms of our pledged and receivable sale facilities, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to replace receivables or to pay down the loan to within permitted loan-to-value ratios. Additionally, the terms of our securitization-type transactions require us to repurchase or replace loans if we breach any of the representations and warranties we made at the time we sold the receivables. These agreements also often include provisions that require substantially all of our cash flow from our retained interest in the receivable portfolios sold to be paid to the parties who purchased the receivables from us in the event of defaults by customers in excess of stated thresholds. In addition, we guaranteed certain payments under the Legacy Securitization (described in further detail in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Substantially all of the timeshare receivables backing the notes subject to the Legacy Securitization were generated prior to December 15, 2008, when we implemented our FICO® score-based credit underwriting program, and relate to loans to borrowers with FICO® scores below 600. 23 While we have attempted to restructure our business to reduce our need for and reliance on financing for liquidity in the short term, there is no assurance that such restructuring will be successful or that our business and profitability will not otherwise continue to depend on our ability to obtain financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We offer financing of up to 90% of the purchase price to purchasers of our VOIs. However, we incur selling, marketing and administrative cash expenditures prior to and concurrent with the sale. These costs generally exceed the down payment we receive at the time of the sale. Accordingly, our ability to borrow against or sell our notes receivable has historically been a critical factor in our continued liquidity, and we therefore have depended on funds from our credit facilities and securitization transactions to finance our operations. The disruption in the credit markets which began in 2007 made obtaining additional and replacement external sources of liquidity more difficult and more costly. The number of banks and other finance companies willing to provide “warehouse” lines of credit for timeshare receivables decreased, and the term securitization market was unavailable for an extended period of time. If our pledged receivables facilities terminate or expire and we are unable to extend them or replace them with comparable facilities, or if we are unable to continue to participate in securitization-type transactions and “warehouse” facilities on acceptable terms, our liquidity, cash flow and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, financing for real estate acquisition and development and the capital markets for corporate debt have been limited. In response to these conditions, during 2008, we adopted initiatives, which included limiting sales and encouraging higher down payments on sales, in an attempt to conserve cash. We also have increased our focus on expanding our fee-based service business. However, there is no assurance that our implementation of these initiatives will enhance our financial position or otherwise be successful. If these initiatives do not have their intended results, our financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. Notwithstanding the initiatives implemented by us since 2008 to improve our cash position, we anticipate that we will continue to seek and use external sources of liquidity, including funds that we obtain pursuant to additional borrowings under our existing credit facilities, under credit facilities that we may obtain in the future, under securitizations in which we may participate in the future or pursuant to other borrowing arrangements, to: ·support our operations; ·finance the acquisition and development of VOI inventory or property and equipment; ·finance a substantial percentage of our sales; and ·satisfy our debt and other obligations. In addition, as previously described, we issued $75,000,000 of Notes on March 26, 2013 in connection with the financing of our currently proposed merger with BFC. Our ability to service or to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing (including our ability to consummate future term securitizations) depends on the credit markets and on our future performance, which is subject to a number of factors, including the success of our business, results of operations, leverage, financial condition and business prospects, prevailing interest rates, general economic conditions, the performance of our receivables portfolio, and perceptions about the vacation ownership and real estate industries. Further, reputational and other risks to both the lender and to us associated with the 2007 bankruptcy of BFC’s Levitt and Sons subsidiary and the lawsuit brought by the SEC against BBX Capital Corporation (“BBX Capital”), a public company in which BFC owns an approximately 49% equity interest and 73% voting interest, and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, who is also Chairman of Bluegreen’s board of directors and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC, may be considered by lenders in connection with both making and renewing extensions of credit. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $6.5 million of indebtedness scheduled to become due during 2013. Historically, much of our debt has been renewed or refinanced in the ordinary course of business. However, we may not in the future be able to obtain sufficient external sources of liquidity on attractive terms, or at all, or otherwise renew, extend or refinance a significant portion of our outstanding debt. Any of these occurrences may have a material and adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. 24 The ratings of third-party rating agencies could adversely impact our ability to obtain, renew or extend credit facilities, or otherwise raise capital. Rating agencies from time to time review prior corporate and specific transaction ratings in light of tightened ratings criteria. We have maintained a “B-” corporate credit rating with a “stable” outlook with Standard & Poor’s since December 2010, at which time our corporate credit rating was upgraded from CCC. If rating agencies were to downgrade our corporate credit ratings, our ability to raise capital and/or issue debt on favorable terms, or at all, and our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if rating agencies downgraded their original ratings on certain bond classes in our securitizations, holders of such bonds may be required to sell bonds in the marketplace, and such sales could occur at a discount, which could impact the perceived value of the bonds and our ability to sell future bonds on favorable terms or at all. While we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely downgrades to our corporate credit rating or the ratings of bond classes in our securitizations, such ratings changes can occur without advance notice. Our future success depends on our ability to market our products and services successfully and efficiently, and our marketing expenses may increase particularly in the event our marketing focus shifts towards new customers as opposed to existing owners. We compete for customers with hotel and resort properties and other vacation ownership resorts. The identification of sales prospects and leads, and the marketing of our products and services to them are essential to our success. We have incurred and will continue to incur the expenses associated with marketing programs in advance of closing sales to the leads that we identify. If our lead identification and marketing efforts do not yield enough leads or we are unable to successfully convert sales leads to sales, we may be unable to recover the expense of our marketing programs and systems and our business, operating results and financial conditions would be adversely affected. In addition, we have in recent years focused our marketing efforts primarily on sales to existing owners, which typically carry a relatively lower marketing cost. In the future we will focus more of our marketing efforts on selling to new customers as opposed to existing owners, and our sales and marketing expenses will likely increase. If we are not successful in offsetting the cost increase with greater sales revenue, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely impacted. We may not be successful in increasing or expanding our fee-based services relationships, and our fee-based service activities, including the POA Sales activities which we commenced during January 2012, may not be profitable, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In July 2009, we began offering fee-based marketing, sales, resort management and other services to third-party developers. During 2012, we continued to expand our fee-based service business, which we believe enables us to leverage our expertise in sales and marketing, resort management, mortgage servicing, construction management and title services. We currently intend for our fee-based services to become an increasing portion of our resorts business over time as they generally produce positive cash flow and typically require less capital investment than our traditional vacation ownership business. We have attempted to structure these activities to cover our costs and generate a profit. However, our fee-based services business remains relatively new and we have limited experience in our pricing and operation. In addition, while our fee-based marketing and sales services do not require us to use our receivable credit facility capacity, our clients do typically have to maintain their own receivable-backed credit facilities. Should our clients not be able to maintain their facilities, our fee-based marketing and sales business could be materially adversely impacted. Alternatively, we could attempt to structure other arrangements where we would utilize our receivable credit facilities in order to provide fee-based marketing and sales services, but this would reduce the credit otherwise available to us. In addition, when we perform fee-based sales and marketing services, we sell VOIs in a resort developed by a third party as an interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club. This subjects us to a number of risks typically associated with selling products developed by others under your own brand name, including litigation risks. Additionally, demand for the third party resorts may be below our expectations and the third party developers may not satisfy their obligations. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by performing due diligence on the resorts in which we sell VOIs and by typically performing resort management services at those resorts, we may not be successful in mitigating or managing the risks, which may have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 25 As part of the expansion of our fee-based service business, during January 2012, we began selling VOI inventory in connection with a new category of sales requiring low levels of capital deployment whereby we acquire VOI inventory from our resorts’ property owner associations (“POAs”) on a non-committed basis, in close proximity to the timing of our selling of such VOIs (“POA Sales”). VOIs are typically obtained by the POAs through foreclosure in connection with maintenance fee defaults and are generally acquired by us at a discount. While we intend to increase our POA Sales efforts in the future and enter into similar arrangements with third-party developers as part of our fee-based services initiative, we may not be successful in increasing our POA Sales or entering into similar arrangements, and in any event these efforts may not result in us achieving improved results. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not continue to participate in exchange networks and other strategic alliances with third parties or our customers are not satisfied with the networks in which we participate or our strategic alliances. As previously described, our participation in exchange networks and other strategic alliances and our Traveler Plus™ program make ownership of our VOIs more attractive by providing owners with the ability to take advantage of vacation experiences in addition to stays at our resorts. A VOI owner’s participation in the RCI exchange network allows an owner to exchange their annual VOI for occupancy at over 4,000 participating resorts, based upon availability and the owner payment of a variable exchange fee. During 2012, approximately 8% of our owners utilized the RCI exchange network for an exchange of two or more nights. We also have a joint venture with Shell, called Select Connections™, which currently gives Bluegreen Vacation Club members who acquired or upgraded their VOIs on or after July 1, 2007 access to 23 Shell resorts and provides members of Shell access to Bluegreen Vacation Club resorts. We also entered into strategic alliance agreements with Choice in January 2013 pursuant to which certain of our resorts will be branded as part of Choice’s Ascend™ Hotel Collection and owners of our VOIs will be entitled to certain privileges, with respect to Choice’s hotels, including discounted rates at all Choice hotels (subject to availability) and the ability of Traveler Plus™ members to convert their Bluegreen Vacation Club points into Choice Privileges® points which can be used for stays at participating Choice hotels. In addition, Traveler Plus™ members may use their points for a variety of hotel stays (including, as described above, at participating Choice hotels), RV site stays within the “Coast to Coast” network, or various cruise vacations. We may not be able to continue to participate in the RCI or Select Connections™ exchange networks at some point in the future. In addition, these networks and our Traveler Plus™ program may not continue to operate effectively, and our customers may not continue to be satisfied with them. Further, our relationship with Choice may not be well received by our customers or otherwise result in the benefits we expect to derive from the relationship. If any of these events should occur, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect our business. Based on our experience at our resorts and at destination resorts owned by third parties, we believe that resales of VOIs in the secondary market generally are made at net sales prices below their original customer purchase prices. The relatively lower sales prices are partly attributable to the high marketing and sales costs associated with the initial sales of such VOIs. Accordingly, the initial purchase of a VOI may be less attractive to prospective buyers. Also, buyers who seek to resell their VOIs compete with our efforts to sell our VOIs. While VOI resale clearing houses or brokers currently do not have a material impact on our business, if a secondary market for VOIs were to become more organized and liquid, the resulting availability of resale VOIs at lower prices could adversely affect our sales prices and the number of sales we can close, which in turn would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to the risks of the real estate market and the risks associated with real estate development, including the decline in real estate values and the deterioration of other conditions relating to the real estate market and real estate development. 26 Real estate markets are cyclical in nature and highly sensitive to changes in national and regional economic conditions, including: ·levels of unemployment; ·levels of discretionary disposable income; ·levels of consumer confidence; ·the availability of financing; ·overbuilding or decreases in demand; ·interest rates; and ·federal, state and local taxation methods. The adverse trends experienced in the real estate market beginning in 2007 exerted pressure upon us, and have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our operations. Further, while general economic trends have recently shown signs of improvement, a deterioration in general economic conditions or continued adverse conditions in the real estate market would have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent we decide to acquire more real estate inventory in the future, the availability of land for development of resort properties at favorable prices at that time will be critical to our profitability and the ability to cover our significant selling, general and administrative expenses, cost of capital and other expenses. If we are unable to acquire such land or resort properties at a favorable cost, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. While we believe that the property we have purchased at our adjusted carrying amounts will generate appropriate margins, land prices remain significantly below historical levels, and the projects we acquired prior to or during the recent economic downturn may have been purchased at higher price levels than available in the current market. The profitability of our real estate development activities is also impacted by the cost of construction materials and services. Should the cost of construction materials and services rise, the ultimate cost of our future resorts inventory when developed could increase and have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Adverse outcomes in legal or other regulatory procedures, including claims for development-related defects, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation, legal and regulatory proceedings which result in significant expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. In addition, litigation is inherently uncertain, and adverse outcomes in the litigation and other proceedings to which we are subject could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We engage third-party contractors to construct our resorts. We also historically engaged third-party contractors to develop our communities. However, our customers may assert claims against us for construction defects or other perceived development defects, including, without limitation, structural integrity, the presence of mold as a result of leaks or other defects, water intrusion, asbestos, electrical issues, plumbing issues, road construction, water and sewer defects and defects in the engineering of amenities. In addition, certain state and local laws may impose liability on property developers with respect to development defects discovered in the future. We could have to accrue a significant portion of the cost to repair such defects in the quarter when such defects arise or when the repair costs are reasonably estimable. In addition, liabilities related to Bluegreen Communities that were not assumed by Southstar in connection with its purchase of substantially all of the assets which comprised Bluegreen Communities on May 4, 2012, including those relating to Bluegreen Communities’ operations prior to the closing of the transaction, remain our responsibility. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings” for a description of currently pending legal matters with respect to Bluegreen Communities. A significant number of claims for development-related defects could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. We may be adversely affected by extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, including with respect to the imposition of additional taxes on operations. In addition, results of audits of our tax returns or those of our subsidiaries may have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition. 27 The federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted extensive regulations that affect the manner in which we market and sell VOIs and conduct our other business operations. In addition, many states have adopted specific laws and regulations regarding the sale of VOIs. Many states, including Florida and South Carolina, where some of our resorts are located, extensively regulate the creation and management of timeshare resorts, the marketing and sale of timeshare properties, the escrow of purchaser funds prior to the completion of construction and closing, the content and use of advertising materials and promotional offers, the delivery of an offering memorandum and the creation and operation of exchange programs and multi-site timeshare plan reservation systems. Moreover, with regard to sales conducted in South Carolina, the closing of real estate and mortgage loan transactions must be conducted under the supervision of an attorney licensed in South Carolina and otherwise in accordance with South Carolina’s Time Sharing Transaction Procedures Act. Most states also have other laws that regulate our activities, such as timeshare project registration laws, real estate licensure laws, mortgage licensure laws, sellers of travel licensure laws, anti-fraud laws, consumer protection laws, telemarketing laws, prize, gift and sweepstakes laws, and consumer credit laws. We currently are authorized to market and sell VOIs in all states in which our operations are currently conducted. If our agents or employees violate applicable regulations or licensing requirements, their acts or omissions could cause the states where the violations occurred to revoke or refuse to renew our licenses, render our sales contracts void or voidable, or impose fines on us based on past activities. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” In addition, the federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we conduct business have generally enacted extensive regulations relating to direct marketing and telemarketing, including the federal government’s national “Do Not Call” list. The regulations have impacted our marketing of VOIs, and we have taken steps in an attempt to decrease our dependence on restricted calls. However, these steps have increased and are expected to continue to increase our marketing costs. We cannot predict the impact that these legislative initiatives or any other legislative measures that may be proposed or enacted in the future may have on our marketing strategies and results. Further, from time to time, complaints are filed against us by individuals claiming that they received calls in violation of the regulation. Currently, most states have taxed VOIs as real estate, imposing property taxes that are billed to the respective POAs that maintain the related resorts and have not sought to impose sales tax upon the sale of the VOI or accommodations tax upon the use of the VOI. From time to time, however, various states have attempted to promulgate new laws or apply existing laws impacting the taxation of VOIs to require that sales or accommodations taxes be collected. Should new state or local laws be implemented or interpreted to impose sales or accommodations taxes on VOIs, our business could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, consumers file complaints against us in the ordinary course of our business. We could be required to incur significant costs to resolve these complaints or enter into consents with regulators regarding our activities. We may not remain in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and violations of applicable laws may have adverse implications for us, including negative public relations, potential litigation and regulatory sanctions. The expense, negative publicity and potential sanctions associated with any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. In addition, VOIs may in the future be deemed to be securities under federal or state law and therefore subject to applicable securities regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on us due to, among other things, the cost of compliance with such regulations. Environmental liabilities, including claims with respect to mold or hazardous or toxic substances, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as common law, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including mold, located on, in or emanating from property that we own, lease or operate, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage at such property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our property or to borrow money using such property or receivables generated from the sale of such property as collateral. Noncompliance with environmental, health or safety requirements may require us to cease or alter operations at one or more of our properties. Further, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from violations of environmental regulations or from contamination associated with one or more of our properties. 28 There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. The consolidated financial statements included in the reports we file with the SEC, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are, prepared in accordance with GAAP, which involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions. These estimates, judgments and assumptions include, but are not limited to, those related to future cash flows, which in turn are based upon expectations of our performance given current and projected forecasts of the economy in general and the real estate markets. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, including in the event the adverse conditions in the real estate market continue for longer than expected or deteriorate further or if our performance does not otherwise meet our expectations, we may be required to record impairment charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, GAAP requirements as to how certain estimates are made may result, for example, in asset valuations which ultimately would not be realized if we were to attempt to sell the asset. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff, and we may not be successful in doing so. As previously described, during January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against BBX Capital and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, who also serves as non-executive Chairman of our Board of Directors and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC. The lawsuit alleges violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Levan. While BBX Capital has disclosed that it believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. Our proposed merger with BFC may not be completed on the contemplated terms, or at all. As previously described, on November 14, 2012, we entered into a merger agreement with BFC, BFC’s subsidiary Woodbridge, and Merger Sub, a wholly owned subsidiary of Woodbridge, which provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into Bluegreen, and for Bluegreen to continue as the surviving corporation of the merger and become a wholly owned subsidiary of Woodbridge. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, our shareholders (other than BFC and Woodbridge, and shareholders who exercise their appraisal rights in accordance with Massachusetts law) will receive $10.00 in cash for each share of our common stock that they hold at the effective time of the merger. If the merger is consummated, our common stock will no longer be listed for trading on the NYSE or registered under the Exchange Act. 29 There is no assurance that the merger will be consummated on the contemplated terms, or at all. If we are unable to complete the merger for any reason, we would have incurred significant costs without consummating the transaction. As previously described, we also issued $75.0 million of Notes on March 26, 2013 in connection with the proposed funding of the merger consideration. As previously described, purported class action lawsuits have been filed in Florida and Massachusetts which seek to enjoin the merger or, if it is completed, to recover relief as determined by the presiding court to be appropriate. While we believe the actions are without merit and we intend to continue to defend against them vigorously, the outcome of the actions is uncertain. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” for additional information regarding this litigation. We are also subject to risks and uncertainties during the pendency of the transaction. Specifically, in connection with our efforts to complete the merger, we have and may continue to incur substantial costs and divert significant management resources, including with respect to the class action litigation described above. In addition, the merger agreement contains restrictions on the conduct of our business until the closing of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement. BFC holds a majority of our outstanding common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. BFC, through Woodbridge, currently owns approximately 53% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Further, BFC is in a position to control shareholder votes on the election of directors and other matters requiring the approval of holders of a majority of the shares of our issued and outstanding common stock. Approval of our currently proposed merger with BFC required the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66-2/3% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. As described in further detail in Item 9B – Other Information of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the proposed merger was approved by the affirmative vote of holders of approximately 86% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 