RISK FACTORS The Company's business and the results of its operations are affected by numerous factors and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important risk factors and uncertainties that may cause the actual results of the Company's operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. Changes within the banking and credit union industry could reduce demand for our products. In the current environment of low interest rates, revenue growth at many commercial banks and credit unions has stagnated. Many banks and credit unions have been slow to resume their capital spending, including spending on computer software and hardware, affecting both our sales to new customers and upgrade/complementary product sales to existing customers. We may not be able to manage growth. We have grown both internally and through acquisitions. Our expansion has and will continue to place significant demands on our administrative, operational, financial and management personnel and systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enhance and expand our product lines, manage costs, adapt our infrastructure and modify our systems to accommodate future growth. If we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology, we could lose existing customers and be unable to attract new business. The markets for our software and hardware products and services are characterized by changing customer requirements and rapid technological changes. These factors and new product introductions by our existing competitors or by new market entrants could reduce the demand for our existing products and services and we may be required to develop or acquire new products and services. Our future success is dependent on our ability to enhance our existing products and services in a timely manner and to develop or acquire new products and services. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products and services as planned, or fail to achieve timely market acceptance of our new or enhanced products and services, we may incur unanticipated expenses, lose sales or fail to achieve anticipated revenues. Our growth may be affected if we are unable to find or complete suitable acquisitions. We have augmented the growth of our business with a number of acquisitions and we plan to continue to acquire appropriate businesses, products and services. This strategy depends on our ability to identify, negotiate and finance suitable acquisitions. Substantial recent merger and acquisition activity in our industry has affected the availability and pricing of such acquisitions. If we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. Acquisitions may be costly and difficult to integrate. We have acquired a number of businesses in the last year and will continue to explore acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired companies. We may encounter problems in connection with the integration of new businesses including: financial control and computer system compatibility; unanticipated costs; unanticipated quality or customer problems with acquired products or services; diversion of management's attention; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; loss of key employees; and significant amortization expenses related to identifiable intangible assets. Without additional acquisitions, we may not be able to grow and to develop new products and services as quickly as we have in the past to meet competitive challenges. If our integration strategies fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our strategic relationship with IBM were terminated, it could have a negative impact on the continuing success of our business. We have developed a strategic relationship with IBM. As part of this collaborative relationship, we market and sell IBM hardware and equipment to our customers under an IBM Business Partner Agreement and resell maintenance on IBM hardware products to our customers. Much of our software is designed to be compatible with the IBM hardware that is run by a majority of our customers. If IBM were to terminate or fundamentally modify our strategic relationship, our relationship with our customers and our revenues and earnings could suffer. We could also lose software market share or be required to redesign existing products or develop new products that would be compatible with the hardware used by our customers. Competition may result in price reductions and decreased demand for our products and services. We expect that competition in the markets we serve will remain vigorous. We compete on the basis of product quality, reliability, performance, ease of use, quality of support, integration with other products and pricing. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with companies entering our markets in the future. Certain of our competitors have strong financial, marketing and technological resources and, in some cases, a larger customer base than we do. They may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our business. We depend to a significant extent on the contributions and abilities of our senior management. Our Company has grown significantly in recent years and our management remains concentrated in a small number of key employees. If we lose one or more of our key employees, we could suffer a loss of sales and delays in new product development, and management resources would have to be diverted from other activities to compensate for this loss. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. We do, however, have a management succession plan in place. Consolidation of financial institutions will continue to reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. Our primary market consists of approximately 9,000 commercial banks (includes savings & loans) and 9,200 credit unions. The number of commercial banks and credit unions has decreased because of mergers and acquisitions over the last several decades and is expected to continue to decrease as more consolidation occurs, which will reduce our number of potential customers. Because of this consolidation, some of our existing customers could terminate, or refuse to renew their contracts with us and potential customers could break off negotiations with us. The services we provide to our customers are subject to government regulation that could hinder our ability to develop portions of our business or impose additional constraints on the way we conduct our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. As a supplier of services to financial institutions, some of our operations are examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, among other regulatory agencies. These agencies regulate services we provide and the manner in which we operate, and we are required to comply with a broad range of applicable laws and regulations. In addition, existing laws, regulations, and policies could be amended or interpreted differently by regulators in a manner that has a negative impact on our existing operations or that limits our future growth or expansion. Our customers are also regulated entities, and actions by regulatory authorities could determine both the decisions they make concerning the purchase of data processing and other services and the timing and implementation of these decisions. The provision of financial services over the Internet has raised concerns with respect to the use, confidentiality, and security of private customer information. Regulatory agencies, Congress and state legislatures are considering numerous regulatory and statutory proposals to protect the interests of consumers and to require compliance by the industry with standards and policies that have not been defined. Network or Internet security problems could damage our reputation and business. We rely on standard network and Internet security systems, most of which we license from third parties, to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. Computer networks and the Internet are vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may render our security measures inadequate. Someone who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations or those of our customers. Security risks may result in liability to us and also may deter financial institutions from purchasing our products. We may need to expend significant capital or other resources protecting against the threat of security breaches or alleviating problems caused by breaches. Eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security problems may result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service to users, any of which could harm our business. As technology becomes less expensive and more advanced, purchase prices of hardware may decline and our revenues and profits from remarketing arrangements may decrease. Computer hardware technology is rapidly developing. Hardware manufacturers are producing less expensive and more powerful equipment each year, and we expect this trend to continue into the future. As computer hardware becomes less expensive, revenues and profits derived from our hardware remarketing may decrease and become a smaller portion of our revenues and profits. An operational failure in our outsourcing facilities could cause us to lose customers. Damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of outsourcing services could damage our relationship with certain customers and may cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. Although we have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or reduce disruption, we cannot assure you that we will not suffer a prolonged interruption of our transaction processing services. In the event that an interruption of our network extends for more than several hours, we may experience data loss or a reduction in revenues by reason of such interruption. In addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could lead our present and potential customers to choose service providers other than us. If others claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, we could be liable for significant damages. We do not believe that any of our products or services infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot be sure, however, that others will not make infringement claims, and we have agreed to indemnify many of our customers against those claims. We anticipate that the number of infringement claims will increase as the number of software solutions and services increases and the functionality of our products and services expands. Any of those claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and may not be resolved on terms favorable to us. Expansion of services to non-traditional customers could expose us to new risks. Some of our recent acquisitions include business lines that are marketed outside our traditional, regulated, and litigation-averse base of financial institution customers. These non-regulated customers may entail greater operational, credit and litigation risks than we have faced before and could result in increases in bad debts and litigation costs. Competitive pressures in our industry or general economic conditions may require that we reduce our prices or offer other favorable terms to customers on our products and services which could result in lower margins and reduce net income. We compete with a variety of software vendors in all of our major product lines. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their size, product lines, greater marketing resources, or exclusive intellectual property rights. If competitors offer more favorable pricing, payment or other contractual terms, warranties, or functionality, or if general economic conditions decline such that customers are less willing or able to pay the cost of our products, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to successfully compete. The accounting treatment for employee stock options has changed, which will affect our earnings and cause us to reconsider our business practices. We previously accounted for the issuance of stock options under APB Opinion No. 25 and recognized no compensation expense for employee stock options. With the recent adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), we will be required in FY2006 to recognize compensation expense for granted stock options based upon a calculation of their fair values at date of grant. We have decided to reduce the number of stock options granted to employees and to rely instead on alternative forms of equity compensation, such as grants of restricted stock. This could affect our ability to retain existing employees and attract qualified candidates, and also could increase the cash compensation we would have to pay them. Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues may decrease overall margins. We continue to experience a trend of a greater proportion of our products being sold as outsourcing services rather than in-house licenses. We realize lower margins on service revenues than on license revenues. Thus, if service revenue increases as a percentage of total revenue, our gross margins will be lower and our operating results may be impacted. Failure to achieve favorable renewals of service contracts could negatively impact our outsourcing business. Our contracts with our customers for outsourced data processing services generally run for a period of 3-5 years. Because of the rapid growth of our outsourcing business over the last five years, we will experience greater numbers of these contracts coming up for renewal over the next few years. Renewal time presents our customers with the opportunity to consider other providers or to renegotiate their contracts with us. If we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates upon favorable terms, our revenues from outsourcing and associated profit margins could be negatively impacted. 