Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are the most significant risk factors applicable to us: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The recent disruptions in the overall economy and the financial markets may adversely impact our business. The restaurant industry has been affected by current economic factors, including the deterioration of national, regional and local economic conditions, declines in employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and volatility in the financial markets have reduced, and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer restaurant spending, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. As a result, decreased cash flow generated from our business may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macro economic disruptions, as well as the 11 restructuring of various commercial and investment banking organizations, could adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets. The disruption in the credit markets may also adversely affect the availability of financing for our expansions and operations, and could impact our vendors’ ability to meet supply requirements. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Failure of our restaurants to achieve expected results could have a negative impact on our revenues and performance results. Performance results currently achieved by our restaurants may not be indicative of longer term performance or the potential market acceptance of restaurants in new locations. We cannot be assured that new restaurants that we open will have similar operating results as existing restaurants. New restaurants take several months to reach expected operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. The failure of our existing or new restaurants to perform as predicted could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our unfamiliarity with new markets may present risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our future growth and profitability. Due to higher operating costs caused by temporary inefficiencies typically associated with expanding into new regions and opening new restaurants, such as lack of market awareness and acceptance and limited availability of experienced staff, continued expansion may result in an increase in our operating costs. New markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our restaurants in these new markets to be less successful than our restaurants in our existing markets. We cannot assure you that restaurants in new markets will be successful. Our ability to open new restaurants efficiently is subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including: -- Selection and availability of suitable restaurant sites; -- Negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for such sites; -- Negotiation of reasonable construction contracts and adequate supervision of construction; -- Our ability to secure required governmental permits and approvals for both construction and operation; -- Availability of adequate capital; -- General economic conditions; and -- Adverse weather conditions. We may not be successful in addressing these factors, which could adversely affect our ability to open new restaurants on a timely basis, or at all. Delays in opening or failures to open new restaurants could cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer. Terrorism and war may have material adverse effect on our business. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war in the United States or abroad, may affect the markets in which we operate and our business, results of operations and financial conditions. The potential near-term and long- 12 term effects these events may have on our business operations, our customers, the markets in which we operate and the economy is uncertain. Because the consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts, are unpredictable, we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our markets or our business. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Many of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. Many of our restaurants are located in states where the minimum wage was recently increased. There likely will be additional increases implemented in jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. These minimum wage increases may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected operating results and affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or differing interpretations with respect to our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. Rising insurance costs could negatively impact profitability. The cost of insurance (workers compensation insurance, general liability insurance, property insurance, health insurance and directors and officers liability insurance) has risen significantly over the past few years and is expected to continue to increase. These increases, as well as potential state legislation requirements for employers to provide health insurance to employees, could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to negate the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. Compliance with existing and new regulations of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. This investment required to comply with these changing regulations may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Intense competition in the restaurant industry could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price-value relationships, ambiance, service and location, and many restaurants compete with us at each of our locations. There are a number of well-established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and 13 other resources than ours, and many of our competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants, or in which we intend to locate restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants that operate with similar concepts. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets will prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our restaurant system to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that may develop in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing these modifications or that these modifications will not reduce our profitability. Our profitability is dependent in large measure on food, beverage and supply costs which are not within our control. Our profitability is dependent in large measure on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food, beverage and supply costs. Various factors beyond our control, including climatic changes and government regulations, may affect food and beverage costs. Specifically, our dependence on frequent, timely deliveries of fresh beef, poultry, seafood and produce subjects us to the risks of possible shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions, which could adversely affect the availability and cost of any such items. We cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate or react to increasing food and supply costs in the future. The failure to react to these increases could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The restaurant industry is affected by changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns that could result in a reduction in our revenues. Consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns or by specific events such as the outbreak of or scare caused by “mad cow disease”, the popularity of the Atkins diet and the South Beach diet and changes in consumer preferences, such as “carb consciousness”. If we were to have to modify our restaurants’ menus, we may lose customers who would be less satisfied with a modified menu, and we may not be able to attract a new customer base to generate the necessary revenues to maintain our income from restaurant operations. A change in our menus may also result in us having different competitors. We may not be able to successfully compete against established competitors in the general restaurant market. Our success also depends on various factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income, consumer confidence and the United States participation in military activities. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce our customer base and spending patterns, either of which could reduce our revenues and results of operations. Our geographic concentrations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently operate in seven regions, New York City, Washington, D.C., Las Vegas, Nevada, Tampa and Hollywood, Florida, Atlantic City, New Jersey, Ledyard, Connecticut, and Boston, Massachusetts and our Las Vegas, Florida, Atlantic City, and Connecticut operations are all located in casinos. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in these markets, including its labor market, and the casino market in general, which could have a negative impact on our profitability as a whole. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as could other regional occurrences such as acts of terrorism, local strikes, natural disasters or changes in laws or regulations. 14 Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to seasonality and other factors beyond our control. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may vary greatly depending upon the region of the United States in which a particular restaurant is located. In addition to seasonality, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable unit sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including: -- The amount of sales contributed by new and existing restaurants; -- The timing of new openings; -- Increases in the cost of key food or beverage products; -- Labor costs for our personnel; -- Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis; -- Adverse weather; -- Consumer confidence and changes in consumer preferences; -- Health concerns, including adverse publicity concerning food-related illness; -- The level of competition from existing or new competitors; -- Economic conditions generally and in each of the market in which we are located; and -- Acceptance of a new or modified concept in each of the new markets in which we could be located. These fluctuations make it difficult for us to predict and address in a timely manner factors that may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any expansion may strain our infrastructure, which could slow restaurant development. Any expansion may place a strain on our management systems, financial controls, and information systems. To manage growth effectively, we must maintain the high level of quality and service at our existing and future restaurants. We must also continue to enhance our operational, information, financial and management systems and locate, hire, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly restaurant managers. We cannot predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that any expansion will impose on management and those systems and controls. If we are not able to effectively manage any one or more of these or other aspects of expansion, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our inability to retain key personnel could negatively impact our business. Our success will continue to be highly dependent on our key operating officers and employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including general managers and chefs. The ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. Any failure to do so may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business. We could face labor shortages, increased labor costs and other adverse effects of varying labor conditions. The development and success of our restaurants depend, in large part, on the efforts, abilities, experience and reputations of the general managers and chefs at such restaurants. In addition, our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and wait staff. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply and the inability to recruit and retain such individuals may delay the planned openings of 15 new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants. A significant delay in finding qualified employees or high turnover of existing employees could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient qualified employees, which could result in higher, labor costs. In addition, increases in the minimum hourly wage, employment tax rates and levies, related benefits costs, including health insurance, and similar matters over which we have no control may increase our operating costs. Unanticipated costs or delays in the development or construction of future restaurants could prevent our timely and cost-effective opening of new restaurants. We depend on contractors and real estate developers to construct our restaurants. Many factors may adversely affect the cost and time associated with the development and construction of our restaurants, including: -- Labor disputes; -- Shortages of materials or skilled labor; -- Adverse weather conditions; -- Unforeseen engineering problems; -- Environmental problems; -- Construction or zoning problems; -- Local government regulations; -- Modifications in design; and -- Other unanticipated increases in costs. Any of these factors could give rise to delays or cost overruns, which may prevent us from developing additional restaurants within our anticipated budgets or time periods or at all. Any such failure could cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer. We may not be able to obtain and maintain necessary federal, state and local permits which could delay or prevent the opening of future restaurants. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, including regulations relating to: -- Alcoholic beverage control; -- The purchase, preparation and sale of food; -- Public health and safety; -- Sanitation, building, zoning and fire codes; and -- Employment and related tax matters. All of these regulations impact not only our current operations but also our ability to open future restaurants. We will be required to comply with applicable state and local regulations in new locations into which we expand. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining licenses, permits or approvals in such new locations could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant in a particular area or reduce operations at an existing location, either of which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 The restaurant industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which can cause guests to avoid our restaurants and result in liabilities. Health concerns, including adverse publicity concerning food-related illness, although not specifically related to our restaurants, could cause guests to avoid our restaurants, which would have a negative impact on our sales. We may also be the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-related illness, injuries suffered on the premises or other food quality, health or operational concerns. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may also be subject to litigation which, regardless of the outcome, could result in adverse publicity. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially adversely affect us and our restaurants, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. Such litigation, adverse publicity or damages could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition and results of operations. Many of our operations are located in casinos and much of our success will be dependent on the success of those casinos. The success of the business of our restaurants located in Las Vegas, Nevada, Atlantic City, New Jersey, Tampa and Hollywood, Florida, and Ledyard, Connecticut will be substantially dependent on the success of the casinos in which the company operates in these locations to attract customers for themselves and for our restaurants. The successful operation of the casinos in these locations is subject to various risks and uncertainties including: -- The risk associated with governmental approvals of gaming; -- The risk of a change in laws regulating gaming operations; -- Operating in a limited market; -- Competitive risks relating to casino operations; and -- Risks of terrorism and war. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The fact that a relatively small number of investors hold our publicly traded common stock could cause our stock price to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. A large number of shares of our common stock is concentrated in the hands of a small number of individual and institutional investors and is thinly traded. An attempt to sell by a large holder could adversely affect the price of our stock. Ownership of a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock by a limited number of stockholders will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. A substantial majority of our capital stock is held by a limited number of stockholders. Accordingly, such stockholders will likely have a strong influence on major decisions of corporate policy, and the outcome of any major transaction or other matters submitted to our stockholders or board of directors, including potential mergers or acquisitions, and amendments to our Amended and Restated Certificate of 17 Incorporation. Stockholders other than these principal stockholders are therefore likely to have little influence on decisions regarding such matters. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price at which our common stock will trade may fluctuate significantly. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: -- Fluctuations in quarterly or annual results of operations; -- Changes in published earnings estimates by analysts and whether our actual earnings meet or exceed such estimates; -- Additions or departures of key personnel; and -- Changes in overall stock market conditions, including the stock prices of other restaurant companies. In the past, companies that have experienced extreme fluctuations in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to be subject to such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 