ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are the most significant risk factors applicable to us: 13 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS ----------------------------- OUR UNFAMILIARITY WITH NEW MARKETS MAY PRESENT RISKS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FUTURE GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY. Due to higher operating costs caused by temporary inefficiencies typically associated with expanding into new regions and opening new restaurants, such as lack of market awareness and acceptance and limited availability of experienced staff, continued expansion may result in an increase in our operating costs. New markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our restaurants in these new markets to be less successful than our restaurants in our existing markets. We cannot assure you that restaurants in new markets will be successful. Our ability to open new restaurants efficiently is subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including: -- Selection and availability of suitable restaurant sites; -- Negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for such sites; -- Negotiation of reasonable construction contracts and adequate supervision of construction; -- Our ability to secure required governmental permits and approvals for both construction and operation; -- Availability of adequate capital; -- General economic conditions; and -- Adverse weather conditions. We may not be successful in addressing these factors, which could adversely affect our ability to open new restaurants on a timely basis, or at all. Delays in opening or failures to open new restaurants could cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer. TERRORISM AND WAR MAY HAVE MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war in the United States or abroad, such as the war in Iraq, may affect the markets in which we operate and our business, results of operations and financial conditions. The potential near-term and long-term effects these events may have on our business operations, our customers, the markets in which we operate and the economy is uncertain. Because the consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts, are unpredictable, we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our markets or our business. OUR PROFITABILITY IS DEPENDENT IN LARGE MEASURE ON FOOD, BEVERAGE AND SUPPLY COSTS WHICH ARE NOT WITHIN OUR CONTROL. Our profitability is dependent in large measure on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food, beverage and supply costs. Various factors beyond our control, including climatic changes and government regulations, may affect food and beverage costs. Specifically, our dependence on frequent, timely deliveries of fresh beef, poultry, seafood and produce subjects us to the risks of possible shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions, which could adversely affect the availability and cost of any such items. We cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate or react to increasing food and supply costs in the future. The failure to react to these increases could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. THE RESTAURANT INDUSTRY IS AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN CONSUMER PREFERENCES AND DISCRETIONARY SPENDING PATTERNS THAT COULD RESULT IN A REDUCTION IN OUR REVENUES. 14 Consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns or by specific events such as the outbreak of or scare caused by "mad cow disease", the popularity of the Atkins diet and the South Beach diet and changes in consumer preferences, such as "carb consciousness". If we were to have to modify our restaurants' menus, we may lose customers who would be less satisfied with a modified menu, and we may not be able to attract a new customer base to generate the necessary revenues to maintain our income from restaurant operations. A change in our menus may also result in us having different competitors. We may not be able to successfully compete against established competitors in the general restaurant market. Our success also depends on various factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income, consumer confidence and the United States participation in military activities. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce our customer base and spending patterns, either of which could reduce our revenues and results of operations. OUR GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We currently operate in six regions, New York City, Washington, D.C., Las Vegas, Nevada, Tampa and Hollywood, Florida, Atlantic City, New Jersey and Ledyard, Connecticut, and our Las Vegas, Florida, Atlantic City, and Connecticut operations are all located in casinos. We also expect to take over the Durgin Park location in Boston, Massachusetts in the second quarter of 2007. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in these markets, including its labor market, and the casino market in general, which could have a negative impact on our profitability as a whole. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as could other regional occurrences such as acts of terrorism, local strikes, natural disasters or changes in laws or regulations. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may vary greatly depending upon the region of the United States in which a particular restaurant is located. In addition to seasonality, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable unit sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including: -- The amount of sales contributed by new and existing restaurants; -- The timing of new openings; -- Increases in the cost of key food or beverage products; -- Labor costs for our personnel; -- Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis; -- Adverse weather; -- Consumer confidence and changes in consumer preferences; -- Health concerns, including adverse publicity concerning food-related illness; -- The level of competition from existing or new competitors; -- Economic conditions generally and in each of the market in which we are located; and -- Acceptance of a new or modified concept in each of the new markets in which we could be located. 15 These fluctuations make it difficult for us to predict and address in a timely manner factors that may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ANY EXPANSION MAY STRAIN OUR INFRASTRUCTURE, WHICH COULD SLOW RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT. Any expansion may place a strain on our management systems, financial controls, and information systems. To manage growth effectively, we must maintain the high level of quality and service at our existing and future restaurants. We must also continue to enhance our operational, information, financial and management systems and locate, hire, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly restaurant managers. We cannot predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that any expansion will impose on management and those systems and controls. If we are not able to effectively manage any one or more of these or other aspects of expansion, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. WE COULD FACE LABOR SHORTAGES, INCREASED LABOR COSTS AND OTHER ADVERSE EFFECTS OF VARYING LABOR CONDITIONS. The development and success of our restaurants depend, in large part, on the efforts, abilities, experience and reputations of the general managers and chefs at such restaurants. In addition, our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and wait staff. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply and the inability to recruit and retain such individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants. A significant delay in finding qualified employees or high turnover of existing employees could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient qualified employees, which could result in higher, labor costs. In addition, increases in the minimum hourly wage, employment tax rates and levies, related benefits costs, including health insurance, and similar matters over which we have no control may increase our operating costs. UNANTICIPATED COSTS OR DELAYS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OR CONSTRUCTION OF FUTURE RESTAURANTS COULD PREVENT OUR TIMELY AND COST-EFFECTIVE OPENING OF NEW RESTAURANTS. We depend on contractors and real estate developers to construct our restaurants. Many factors may adversely affect the cost and time associated with the development and construction of our restaurants, including: -- Labor disputes; -- Shortages of materials or skilled labor; -- Adverse weather conditions; -- Unforeseen engineering problems; -- Environmental problems; -- Construction or zoning problems; -- Local government regulations; -- Modifications in design; and -- Other unanticipated increases in costs. Any of these factors could give rise to delays or cost overruns, which may prevent us from developing additional restaurants within our anticipated budgets or time periods or at all. Any such failure could cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer. 16 WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN NECESSARY FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL PERMITS WHICH COULD DELAY OR PREVENT THE OPENING OF FUTURE RESTAURANTS. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, including regulations relating to: -- Alcoholic beverage control; -- The purchase, preparation and sale of food; -- Public health and safety; -- Sanitation, building, zoning and fire codes; and -- Employment and related tax matters. All of these regulations impact not only our current operations but also our ability to open future restaurants. We will be required to comply with applicable state and local regulations in new locations into which we expand. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining licenses, permits or approvals in such new locations could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant in a particular area or reduce operations at an existing location, either of which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. THE RESTAURANT INDUSTRY IS AFFECTED BY LITIGATION AND PUBLICITY CONCERNING FOOD QUALITY, HEALTH AND OTHER ISSUES, WHICH CAN CAUSE GUESTS TO AVOID OUR RESTAURANTS AND RESULT IN LIABILITIES. Health concerns, including adverse publicity concerning food-related illness, although not specifically related to our restaurants, could cause guests to avoid our restaurants, which would have a negative impact on our sales. We may also be the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food-related illness, injuries suffered on the premises or other food quality, health or operational concerns. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may also be subject to litigation which, regardless of the outcome, could result in adverse publicity. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially adversely affect us and our restaurants, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. Such litigation, adverse publicity or damages could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition and results of operations. MANY OF OUR OPERATIONS ARE LOCATED IN CASINOS AND MUCH OF OUR SUCCESS WILL BE DEPENDENT ON THE SUCCESS OF THOSE CASINOS. The success of the business of our restaurants located in Las Vegas, Nevada, Atlantic City, New Jersey, Tampa and Hollywood, Florida, and Ledyard, Connecticut will be substantially dependent on the success of the casinos in which the company operates in these locations to attract customers for themselves and for our restaurants. The successful operation of the casinos in these locations is subject to various risks and uncertainties including: -- The risk associated with governmental approvals of gaming; -- The risk of a change in laws regulating gaming operations; -- Operating in a limited market; -- Competitive risks relating to casino operations; and 17 -- Risks of terrorism and war. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK --------------------------------- THE FACT THAT A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF INVESTORS HOLD OUR PUBLICLY TRADED COMMON STOCK COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO FLUCTUATE. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. A large number of shares of our common stock is concentrated in the hands of a small number of individual and institutional investors and is thinly traded. An attempt to sell by a large holder could adversely affect the price of our stock. OWNERSHIP OF APPROXIMATELY 66% OF OUR OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK BY TWELVE STOCKHOLDERS WILL LIMIT YOUR ABILITY TO INFLUENCE CORPORATE MATTERS. A substantial majority of our capital stock is held by a limited number of stockholders. Twelve stockholders, including our officers and directors and parties affiliated with or related to such persons or to us, own approximately 66% of the shares of common stock outstanding. Accordingly, such stockholders will likely have a strong influence on major decisions of corporate policy, and the outcome of any major transaction or other matters submitted to our stockholders or board of directors, including potential mergers or acquisitions, and amendments to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Stockholders other than these principal stockholders are therefore likely to have little influence on decisions regarding such matters. THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY. The price at which our common stock will trade may fluctuate significantly. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: -- Fluctuations in quarterly or annual results of operations; -- Changes in published earnings estimates by analysts and whether our actual earnings meet or exceed such estimates; -- Additions or departures of key personnel; and -- Changes in overall stock market conditions, including the stock prices of other restaurant companies. In the past, companies that have experienced extreme fluctuations in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to be subject to such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 