Item 1A. Risk Factors. Generally speaking, the risks facing our company fall into four categories: risks related to our proposed merger with Ventas, risks associated with the operations of our tenants, risks related to our operations and risks related to our taxation as a REIT. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings that we make from time to time with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes before making an investment decision in our company. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us, and there may be additional matters that we are unaware of or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, thus, the value of an investment in our company. 16 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR PROPOSED MERGER WITH VENTAS We will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending that could adversely affect our financial results. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and tenants may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, and could cause tenants and others who deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect our financial results. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us, without Ventas’ consent, from making certain acquisitions and dispositions, from engaging in certain capital raising transactions and taking other specified actions while the merger is pending. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. We may be unable to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete the merger, including the approval of our stockholders and Ventas’ stockholders in the anticipated timeframe, or at all. Completion of the merger is contingent upon customary closing conditions, including approval of the merger by our stockholders and the approval by Ventas’ stockholders of the issuance of Ventas common stock in connection with the merger. We may be unable to satisfy all the conditions to the merger. If the stockholders of either company do not approve the merger at the special stockholder meetings to be held after the related merger proxy and registration statement is effective, the merger will not be consummated. In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the merger may take longer than, and could cost more than, we expect. Any delay in completing the merger may adversely affect the benefits that we and Ventas expect to achieve from the merger and the integration of our businesses. If the merger is not completed, our financial results may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including but not limited to: • payment to Ventas of a termination fee of $175 million, plus $20 million as reimbursement of its expenses, as specified in the merger agreement, depending on the nature of the termination; • payment of costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, and payment to Ventas of $20 million as reimbursement of its expenses if our stockholders do not approve the merger; and • being subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger. Any delay or inability to satisfy all conditions to complete the merger, or failure to complete the merger could negatively affect our future business, financial condition or results of operation. RISKS RELATING TO OUR TENANTS Our financial position and results of operation could be weakened and our ability to make distributions could be limited if any of our major tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us or failed to renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire or their mortgages mature, or if we were unable to lease or re-lease our facilities or make mortgage loans on economically favorable terms. We have no operational control over our tenants, and our tenants face a wide range of economic, competitive, government reimbursement and regulatory pressures and constraints. There may end up being more serious tenant financial problems that lead to more extensive restructurings or tenant disruptions than we currently expect. This could be unique to a particular tenant or it could be industry wide, such as increased regulatory compliance costs and further federal or state governmental reimbursement reductions in the case of our skilled nursing facility and specialty hospital tenants, as governments 17 Table of Contents work through their budget deficits; reduced occupancies or slow lease-ups for our assisted and independent living facilities or medical office buildings due to general economic and other factors; and increases in insurance premiums, labor and other expenses. These adverse developments could arise due to a number of factors, including those listed below. The global financial crisis has adversely impacted the financial condition of our tenants, which could impair our tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us. The U.S. recently experienced the longest recession since the Great Depression. While there are current signs of a strengthening and stabilizing economy, there are continued concerns about the uncertainty over whether our economy will again be adversely impacted by inflation, deflation or stagflation and the systemic impact of high unemployment and energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of capital, the U.S. mortgage market and a weak real estate market in the U.S., resulting in a return to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. The specific impact this may have on each of our businesses is described below: • Senior Housing. The combination of a weak economy, sustained weak housing market and high unemployment (the “Economic Factors”) has put downward pressure on occupancies and operating margins for senior housing, a trend that we expect to continue until these factors fully abate. Since the principal competitor for senior housing is the home, the Economic Factors have intensified this competition and in turn, challenged occupancies. In particular, the sustained weak housing markets have put particular pressure on independent living facility occupancies as more seniors delay or forego moving into such facilities, while the weak economy and high unemployment have put particular pressure on occupancies at more need-based assisted living and Alzheimer facilities as costs become prohibitive, causing seniors to go without the necessary assistance and care or causing unemployed, or in some cases working, adults to become caregivers to their senior family members for a period of time. We also believe that our tenants already have implemented prudent cost reductions, and further rent increases will be incrementally more difficult on beleaguered consumers. Therefore, without stabilization or increases in occupancies, it will be difficult for our senior housing tenants to prevent margin erosion over time which could adversely impact their operations and financial condition and their ability to continue to meet their obligations to us. • Long-Term Care/Skilled Nursing. Skilled nursing occupancies have been less impacted by the Economic Factors since the services provided are primarily driven by a significant need. However, the impact of increasing pressure on federal and state government reimbursement from the current economic turmoil and recently enacted and potential future healthcare reform legislation remains uncertain. The ultimate outcome of either of these factors could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of our skilled nursing tenants and their ability to continue to meet their obligations to us. • Medical Office. While the medical office sector currently remains generally healthy, the Economic Factors, particularly high unemployment and cuts in corporate benefits, will likely have unfavorable implications. Consumers faced with limited financial resources and reduced or eliminated insurance coverage will likely choose to forego elective procedures and may defer or forego prescribed procedures. Over time, this could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of our medical office building tenants and their ability to continue to meet their obligations to us. This difficult operating environment has adversely impacted the financial condition of our tenants. If these recent economic conditions continue or do not fully abate, our tenants may be unable to meet their obligations to us, and our business could be adversely affected. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our tenants could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new operators for rejected facilities. We are exposed to the risk that our tenants may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. This risk is more pronounced during weak economic conditions, such as those we are currently experiencing. Our lease agreements, under certain circumstances, provide us the right to evict a tenant, 18 Table of Contents demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our mortgage loans provide us the right to terminate any funding obligations, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies. However the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant in bankruptcy may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent, interest and principal or exercise other rights and remedies during the bankruptcy proceeding. • Leases. If one of our lessees seeks bankruptcy protection, the lessee can either assume or reject the lease. Generally, the lessee is required to make rent payments to us during its bankruptcy until it rejects the lease. If the lessee assumes the lease, the court cannot change the rental amount or any other lease provision that could financially impact us. However, if the lessee rejects the lease, the facility would be returned to us. In that event, if we were able to re-lease the facility to a new tenant only on unfavorable terms or after a significant delay, we could lose some or all of the associated revenue from that facility for an extended period of time. • Mortgage Loans. If a tenant defaults under one of our mortgage loans, we may have to foreclose on the mortgage or protect our interest by acquiring title to a property and thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the facility’s investment potential. Tenants may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against an enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. If a tenant seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay of the federal bankruptcy law would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other remedies against the tenant unless relief is obtained from the court. In addition, a tenant would not be required to make principal and interest payments while an automatic stay was in effect. High “loan to value” ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage loan upon foreclosure. The receipt of liquidation proceeds or the replacement of a tenant that has defaulted on its lease or loan could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the replacement of the tenant licensed to manage the facility. In some instances, we may take possession of a property that exposes us to operating risks and expenses and successor liabilities, including unforeseen liabilities that may be imposed in the future by Medicare, Medicaid or other government regulators. These events, if they were to occur, could reduce our revenue and operating cash flow. In addition, many of our leases contain non-contingent rent escalators for which we recognize income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. This method results in rental income in the early years of a lease being higher than actual cash received, creating a straight-line rent receivable asset included in the caption “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets. At some point during the lease, depending on its terms, the cash rent payments eventually exceed the straight-line rent which results in the straight-line rent receivable asset decreasing to zero over the remainder of the lease term. We assess the collectability of the straight-line rent that is expected to be collected in a future period, and, depending on circumstances, we provide a reserve against the straight-line rent for a portion, up to its full value, that we estimate may not be recoverable. The balance of straight-line rent receivables at December 31, 2010, net of allowances was $39.3 million. To the extent any of the tenants under these leases become unable to pay the contracted cash rent, we may be required to write down the straight-line rent receivable from those tenants, which would reduce our net income. Our tenants may be affected by the financial deterioration, insolvency and/or bankruptcy of other significant operators in the healthcare industry. Certain companies in the healthcare industry, including some key senior housing operators, none of which are currently our tenants, are experiencing or have experienced considerable financial, legal and/or regulatory difficulties which have resulted or may result in financial deterioration and, in some cases, insolvency and/or bankruptcy. The adverse effects on these companies could have a significant impact on the industry as a whole, including but not limited to negative public perception by investors, lenders and consumers. As a result, our tenants could experience the damaging financial effects of a weakened industry driven by negative industry headlines, ultimately making them unable to meet their obligations to us, and our business could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Certain of our medical office buildings are located on or near the campuses of hospitals whose affiliated health systems may experience financial difficulties and/or fail to remain competitive in their respective markets. Certain of our medical office buildings are located on or near the campuses of hospitals, and the operations of those medical office buildings are dependent in part on such hospitals and their affiliated health systems in order to attract and retain tenants, including physicians and other healthcare providers. The viability of these hospitals is impacted by factors including, but not limited to, the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition, demographic and economic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of their affiliated health systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. If a hospital and/or the affiliated health system experiences financial difficulties, it could result in the inability of the hospital to remain competitive or the closure or relocation of the hospital which could in turn adversely impact the ability of the surrounding medical office buildings to attract and retain tenants, and our business could be adversely affected. Conversely, medical office buildings which are not located on or near the campuses of viable hospitals or who do not have affiliations with sound health systems may be adversely impacted by the lack of such proximity or affiliation, and in turn, our business could be adversely affected. Adverse trends in the healthcare service industry may negatively affect our tenants. The healthcare service industry is currently experiencing: • regulatory and government reimbursement uncertainty resulting from comprehensive healthcare reform efforts; • increased accountability for quality of care, compliance and reporting requirements; • changing trends in the method of delivery of healthcare services; • increased expense for uninsured patients and uncompensated care; • increased competition among healthcare providers; • continuing pressure by private and governmental payors to contain costs and reimbursements while increasing patients’ access to healthcare services; • lower pricing, admissions growth and operating profit margins in an uncertain economy; • investment losses; • constrained availability of capital; • credit downgrades; • increased liability insurance expense; and • increased audits, scrutiny and formal investigations by federal and state authorities. These changes, among others, could adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our tenants and, in turn, negatively affect our tenant’s ability to meet their obligations to us, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to risks related to government regulations and the effect they have on our tenants’ businesses. Our tenants are subject to a complex system of federal and state regulations relating to the delivery of healthcare services. If a tenant experiences regulatory or legal problems, we could be at risk for amounts owed to us by the tenant under our leases or mortgages. To the extent that any of their facilities receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, those revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to 20 Table of Contents any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such facilities. In recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to healthcare providers due to budgetary pressures. Changes in healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. • Legislative and Regulatory Changes. Our tenants are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. During March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act were signed into federal law. The provisions included in the combination of these two bills provide increased access to health benefits for uninsured or underinsured populations through reform of both the private insurance industry and existing government programs. The combined bills also call for reductions in federal health program expenditures over 10 years through various reductions. Additionally, many states have enacted or are considering enacting measures to reduce Medicaid expenditures, reduce coverage and program eligibility and/or impose additional taxes. The fiscal condition of certain states may be impacted as budget shortfalls could potentially widen due to provisions within the healthcare reform legislation that expand certain Medicaid programs and other related healthcare expenditures. In addition, the full impact associated with increased costs for our tenants to provide healthcare insurance to their employees may cause additional pressure on our tenants’ operating performance. While the expansion of coverage may result in some additional demand for services provided by our tenants, reimbursement may be lower than the cost required to provide such services, which could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us. The ultimate timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of the health care industry. The failure of any of our tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. • Licensing and Certification, Certificate of Need and Other Regulatory Requirements. Our tenant facilities are generally subject to regulatory and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities and are periodically audited by such authorities to confirm compliance. They may also be subject to accreditation standards imposed by private accreditation bodies. State licensing, as well as Medicare and Medicaid laws, require operators of specialty hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and assisted living facilities to comply with extensive standards governing operations, including federal conditions of participation and state operating regulations. Failure to obtain state licensure or loss of licensure or failure to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification or loss thereof would prevent a facility, or in some cases, potentially all of a tenant’s facilities in a state, from operating and could adversely impact our tenants’ operations and financial condition, potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us. Federal and state agencies administering regulatory and licensing laws regularly inspect our facilities and investigate complaints. Our tenants receive notices of potential sanctions, fines and remedies from time to time, and such sanctions and fines have been imposed from time to time on facilities operated by them. If they are unable to cure deficiencies which have been identified or which are identified in the future, such sanctions and fines may be imposed, and if imposed, may adversely affect our tenants’ ability to operate, financial condition and ability to meet their obligations to us. Our skilled nursing facilities and specialty hospitals generally also may require additional governmental approval, often in the form of a certificate of need that generally varies by state and is subject to change, prior to the addition or construction of new beds, the addition of services or certain capital expenditures. The PPACA also increased disclosure requirements related to ownership and control of our tenant facilities. Some of these additional disclosure requirements for certain third parties doing business with providers such as our tenants may impact us. The PPACA imposes additional reporting requirements for skilled nursing facilities which will be phased in over the next several years. Further, there is increased liability, including overpayment liability, for providers with the same taxpayer identification number. Some of our facilities may not be able to satisfy current and future regulatory requirements, and for this reason, may be unable to continue operating in the future. In such event, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. 21 Table of Contents • Medicare, Medicaid and Private Payor Reimbursement. Our tenants who operate skilled nursing facilities and specialty hospitals derive a significant portion of their revenue from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Failure to maintain certification and accreditation in these programs would result in a significant loss of funding from them. Moreover, federal and state governments have adopted and continue to consider various reform proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. Governmental concern regarding healthcare costs and their budgetary impact may result in significant reductions in payment to healthcare facilities, and future reimbursement rates for either governmental or private payors may not be sufficient to cover cost increases in providing services to patients. In many instances, revenues from Medicaid programs are already insufficient to cover the actual costs incurred in providing care to those patients. Many of the states where our tenants operate report budget deficits that put future Medicaid funding at risk and may limit or decrease the number of Medicaid beds available to patients in the near future as well as in the long term. In addition, reimbursement from private payors has, in many cases, effectively been reduced to levels approaching those of government payors. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for services provided by any facility operator, whether the facility receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees, or any changes in reimbursement policies that reduce reimbursement to levels that are insufficient to cover our tenants’ cost of operating could adversely impact our tenants’ operations and financial condition, potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us. • Fraud and Abuse Laws, Stark Law, False Claims Act and Other Compliance Requirements. There are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing a wide array of business referrals, relationships and arrangements that prohibit fraud by healthcare providers. These laws include (i) civil and criminal laws that prohibit filing false claims, making false statements to receive payment or certification under Medicare and Medicaid and failing to refund overpayments or improper payments, (ii) certain federal and state anti-remuneration and fee-splitting laws, such as the federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute and federal physician self-referral law (also known as the “Stark law”), which govern various types of financial arrangements among healthcare providers and others who may be in a position to refer or recommend patients to these providers (including, in the case of certain states, laws that extend to arrangements that do not involve items or services reimbursable under Medicare or Medicaid but apply to all payors), (iii) the Civil Monetary Penalties law, which may be imposed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) for certain fraudulent acts, (iv) federal and state patient privacy and security laws and regulations, such as the privacy and security provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 as amended (“HIPAA”) and (v) certain state laws that prohibit the corporate practice of medicine. Increased reporting and compliance requirements are imposed on specialty hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other providers. Governments are devoting increasing attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. In addition, certain laws, such as the Federal False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring qui tam (or whistleblower) actions on behalf of the government. Further, federal and state agencies have focused and may continue to focus on the activities of hospitals and skilled nursing facilities in certain states in which we have properties. The violation of any of these regulations by a tenant may result in the imposition of criminal or civil fines or other penalties (including exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs) that could jeopardize that tenant’s ability to meet their obligations to us or to continue operating its facility. Finally, government investigation and enforcement of healthcare laws has increased dramatically over the past several years and is expected to continue. Some of these enforcement actions represent novel legal theories and expansions in the application of false claims laws. The costs for an operator of a facility associated with defending such an enforcement action and undertaking a settlement agreement can be substantial and could adversely affect the ability of a tenant to meet its obligations to us. • Specialty Hospitals. Our specialty hospital tenants are also subject to extensive state and federal regulation, changes in reimbursement and quality reporting as outlined above. They have been the subject of policy and reimbursement changes under the PPACA, impacting the calculation of inpatient and outpatient prospective payment under Medicare and outlier payments. Further, inpatient rehabilitation facilities are also subject to new coverage criteria impacting hospitals’ ability to be paid for services. 22 Table of Contents • Assisted Living Facilities, Independent Living Facilities and Continuing Care Retirement Communities. Our assisted living and independent living facility tenants are primarily regulated by the states under state licensing laws. In issuing and renewing assisted and independent living facility licenses to our tenants, the state regulatory authorities consider numerous factors relating to the facility’s physical plant and operations, such as admissions and discharge standards, staffing and training of personnel, patient rights, medication management, and disaster planning. In some states, certificate of need laws may apply to assisted living facilities. The majority of revenues received by the tenant operators of assisted living and independent living facilities are from private payor sources. The remaining revenue source for assisted living is primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs which enable certain states to offer Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living facilities as an alternative to institutional long-term care services such as the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (“OBRA”). There can be no guarantee that state Medicaid programs operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to maintain their waiver status. Further, the level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level and changes in Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels. Changes in revenues could in turn adversely affect a tenant’s operations and ability to meet its obligations to us. States are increasingly feeling the economic pressures of diminished Medicaid dollars and federal matching funds for Medicaid. As a result, this may negatively impact our tenant operators and affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. In addition, to the extent our assisted living facilities participate in Medicaid, they may be subject to the reimbursement, fraud and abuse and other regulatory risks noted above for skilled nursing facilities. • Successor Liability. Some of our tenants have accepted, and prospective tenants may accept, an assignment of the previous operator’s Medicare provider agreement. Such tenants and other new tenants that take assignment of Medicare provider agreements might be subject to federal or state regulatory, civil and criminal investigations of the previous operator’s operations and claims submissions. While our tenants generally conduct due diligence in connection with the transfer of operations of such facilities, these types of issues may not be discovered prior to purchase. Adverse decisions, fines or recoupments might negatively impact our tenants’ financial condition, and in turn their ability to meet their obligations to us. If a tenant loses its licensure or certification, becomes unable to provide healthcare services, cannot meet its financial obligations to us or otherwise vacates a facility, we would have to obtain another tenant for the affected facility. If we lose a tenant and are unable to attract another healthcare provider on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, our cash flows and results of operations could suffer. In addition, many of our properties are special purpose healthcare facilities that may not be easily adaptable to other uses. In addition, transfers of healthcare facilities (including skilled nursing facilities, specialty hospitals and assisted living facilities) to successor operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals, including change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws, state licensure laws and Medicare and Medicaid provider certification and conditions of participation, that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. The replacement of a tenant could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the operations of a facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. The inability to timely transfer properties to successor tenant operators or find efficient alternative uses for any of our properties could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the operators of our facilities accounts for more than 10% of our revenues, and another operator accounts for approximately 9% of our revenues. If these operators experience financial difficulties, or otherwise fail to make payments to us, our revenues may significantly decline. At December 31, 2010, Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. (“Brookdale”) and Hearthstone Senior Services, L.P. (“Hearthstone”) accounted for 12.2% and 9.2%, respectively, of our revenues. We cannot assure you that Brookdale or Hearthstone will have sufficient assets, income or access to financing to enable it to satisfy its obligations to us. Any failure by Brookdale or Hearthstone to effectively conduct its operations could have a material adverse effect on its business reputation or on its ability to attract and retain patients and residents in its properties, which would 23 Table of Contents affect its ability to continue to meet its obligations to us. The failure or inability of Brookdale or Hearthstone to pay its obligations to us could materially reduce our revenues and net income, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we may incur expenses in exercising our remedies upon any default by Brookdale or Hearthstone. In February 2011, Hearthstone notified us that it would be unable to pay the rent then due under its leases with us, and asked us to amend certain terms of the leases to make rents achievable. In order to substantially increase the ability of Hearthstone to meet its future obligations, we agreed to certain modifications of the terms of our leases with Hearthstone that include, among other things, a reduction in the aggregate rent payable by $7.4 million for the lease year ending February 2012, and by $6.4 million for subsequent lease years. After giving effect to these reductions, the aggregate rent payable by Hearthstone is $31.7 million for the first lease year, $33.7 million for the second lease year and increases by 3% each year thereafter. In connection with the lease modifications, we also obtained the right to terminate any and all of our leases with Hearthstone at any time without cause. We believe that the agreed upon rent reductions will be sufficient to enable Hearthstone to satisfy its future payment obligations to us, but there can be no assurance in this regard. We hold a $6.0 million letter of credit that secures Hearthstone’s payment obligations to us. However, it is possible that the letter of credit may not be sufficient to compensate us for any future losses or expenses that may arise if Hearthstone defaults under its leases with us. If we exercise the right to terminate any of the leases without cause, upon the transition of the facilities to a licensed replacement operator we must release to Hearthstone a portion of the $6 million letter of credit in an amount equal to $3 million, increasing by an additional $1 million every six months. We may be unable to find another tenant for our properties if we have to replace Brookdale, Hearthstone or any of our other tenants. We may have to find another tenant for the properties covered by one or more of our master lease agreements with Brookdale or Hearthstone or any of our other tenants upon the expiration of the terms of the applicable lease or upon a default by any such tenants. During any period that we are attempting to locate one or more tenants, there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments on those properties. We cannot assure you that Brookdale or Hearthstone or any of our other tenants will elect to renew their respective leases with us upon expiration of the terms thereof, nor can we assure you that we will be able to locate another suitable tenant or, if we are successful in locating such a tenant, that the rental payments from that new tenant would not be significantly less than the existing rental payments. Our ability to locate another suitable tenant may be significantly delayed or limited by various state licensing, receivership, certificate of need or other laws, as well as by Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We also may incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any such licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could materially delay or impact our ability to collect rent, to obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise to exercise remedies for tenant default and could have an adverse effect on our business. Because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare facilities, we may be required to incur substantial development and renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other tenants, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times tenant-specific. A new or replacement tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant’s particular operations. If a current tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to re-lease the space to another tenant. Also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. Consequently, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office or other healthcare tenants without significant expenditures or renovations, which costs may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents If our tenants are unable or unwilling to incur capital expenditures to maintain and improve our properties, our properties may cease to be competitive and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. Capital expenditures to maintain and improve our properties are generally incurred by our tenants. If our tenants fail to pay for such expenditures, we may incur substantial costs to maintain or improve our properties, which could adversely affect our liquidity. If we fail to make such capital expenditures, our properties may become less attractive to tenants and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Although some of our leases provide for impound accounts to reduce the risk of a tenant failing to make the requisite capital expenditures, many of our leases do not provide for such impound accounts and, for those that do, such accounts may not always be sufficient to protect us from loss. Our tenants are faced with significant potential litigation and rising insurance costs that not only affect their ability to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance, but also may affect their ability to pay their lease or mortgage payments and fulfill their insurance, indemnification and other obligations to us. Our tenants have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims in recent years. As a result, the costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by our tenants have increased materially. In addition, the cost of general and professional liability insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment continues. This has affected the ability of some of our tenants to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance and, thus, manage their related risk exposure. In addition to being unable to fulfill their insurance, indemnification and other obligations to us under their leases and mortgages, and thereby potentially exposing us to those risks, this could cause our tenants to be unable to meet their financial and other obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future in some circumstances be named as a defendant in litigation involving the actions of our tenants. Although we have no involvement in the activities of our tenants and our standard leases generally require our tenants to indemnify and carry insurance to cover us, in certain cases, a significant judgment against us in such litigation could exceed our and our tenants’ insurance coverage, which would require us to make payments to cover the judgment. We have purchased our own insurance as additional protection against such issues, but we may experience uninsured or underinsured losses. Increased competition resulting in lower revenues for some operators may affect their ability to meet their payment obligations to us. The healthcare industry is highly competitive, and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. Our tenants are competing with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. In addition, past overbuilding in the assisted and independent living market caused a slow-down in the fill rate of newly constructed buildings and a reduction in the monthly rate many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services and adversely impacted the occupancy of mature properties. This in turn resulted in lower revenues for the operators of certain of our facilities and contributed to the financial difficulties of some operators. While we believe that overbuilt markets should reach stabilization in the next several years and are less of a problem today due to minimal development, we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Our tenants are expected to encounter increased competition in the future, including through industry consolidation, that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses and therefore affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. 25 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO US AND OUR OPERATIONS In addition to the tenant related risks discussed above, there are a number of risks directly associated with us and our operations. We are subject to particular risks associated with real estate ownership, which could result in unanticipated losses or expenses. Our business is subject to many risks that are associated with the ownership of real estate, including, among other things, the following: • general liability, property and casualty losses, some of which may be uninsured; • the inability to purchase or sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing economic conditions, due to the illiquid nature of real estate and the real estate market; • leases which are not renewed or are renewed at lower rental amounts at expiration; • the exercise of purchase options by operators resulting in a reduction of our rental revenue; • costs relating to maintenance and repair of our facilities and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; • environmental hazards created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, mortgagors or other persons for which we may be liable; • acts of God, earthquakes, wildfires, storms, floods and other natural disasters affecting our properties, some of which may be exacerbated in the future as a result of global climate changes; and • acts of terrorism affecting our properties. We are subject to particular risks associated with real estate development, which could result in unanticipated losses or expenses. On a strategic and selective basis, we may make investments in development projects. Our success with such projects is subject to many risks associated with real estate development, including, among other things, the following: • we may be unable to obtain construction and/or permanent financing for these projects on favorable terms or at all; • we may be unable to obtain or experience delays in obtaining all required zoning, land use, building, occupancy, environmental and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • development and construction costs of a project may exceed our original estimates; • the time required to complete the development, construction and/or lease up of a project may exceed our original estimates; • competition may exceed our original estimates and/or demand may be lower than our original estimates; • occupancy and rental rates of a completed project may be lower than our original estimates; • we have a limited history in conducting ground-up development projects; and • unsuccessful projects could result in direct costs to us. We may make investments in mezzanine loans, which are subject to a greater risk of loss than loans secured by the underlying real estate. We may make investments in mezzanine loans which generally take the form of subordinated loans secured by a pledge of ownership interests in the entity owning the related property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than senior mortgage loans secured by income-producing real property because the investment may 26 Table of Contents have a lesser likelihood of being repaid in full in the event of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to fully repay any mezzanine loans. If a borrower defaults on mezzanine loans or debt senior to our loans, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, the mezzanine loans would be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid and, any repayment would be in accordance with bankruptcy rules. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. If mezzanine loans are not repaid, or are only partially repaid, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may make investments in senior housing operations, which would cause the related portion of our results of operations to be dependent on third party managers. We may make investments in senior housing operations utilizing the REIT Improvement Diversification and Empowerment Act (“RIDEA”) and taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) structure. Such investments would restrict us from directly or indirectly engaging in senior housing operations, and instead, we would be required to retain eligible independent contractors to operate the related facilities under management agreements. Accordingly, we would be dependent upon the independent contractors to implement strategic business decisions and control the daily facility operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if the independent contractors fail to successfully operate the facilities efficiently, effectively and in a manner that is in our best interest. We may make investments in facilities that require entrance fees, which would expose us to additional risks. We may make investments in facilities that require the payment of entrance fees by residents, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator, which would be our tenant. The timing of the receipt of and/or refund of entrance fees could cause a financial burden on our tenants. Additionally, some of these facilities may be subject to oversight of such funds by state regulators, affording residents various rights which could be unfavorable for our tenants. These factors could aversely impact our tenants’ financial condition and their ability to meet their obligations to us. General economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our investments are geographically concentrated may impact our financial results. At December 31, 2010, 47.9% of our triple-net lease rent was derived from facilities located in the following states: Texas (19.9%), California (10.7%), Massachusetts (6.2%), Wisconsin (6.1%) and Florida (5.0%). As a result of this geographic concentration, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting these markets, including general economic conditions, increased competition or decreased demand, changes in state-specific legislation, including proposed Medicaid cuts, a downturn in the local healthcare industry, real estate conditions, terrorist attacks, earthquakes and wildfires and other natural disasters occurring in these regions, which could adversely affect our business. Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to certain restrictions and the potential loss of such properties upon the exercise by the lessor of purchase options contained in certain ground leases, breach or termination of the ground leases. We have acquired an interest in certain of our facilities by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional facilities in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee under a ground lease, we are subject to restrictions imposed by the lease terms, including potential limitations on the replacement of tenants, which could result in a decrease or cessation of rental payments to us. Additionally, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the facility upon the exercise by the lessor of purchase options contained in the ground lease, termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. 27 Table of Contents We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent rent escalators and floating interest rates, both of which can have the effect of reducing our profitability. We receive revenue primarily by leasing our assets under operating leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual rent escalations, subject to certain limitations. Certain leases contain escalators contingent on revenues or other factors, including increases based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. If our tenants’ revenues do not increase as a result of the current weak economic conditions or other factors and/or the Consumer Price Index does not increase, our revenues may not increase. Certain of our debt obligations are floating-rate obligations with interest rate and related payments that vary with the movement of LIBOR or other indices. The generally fixed rate nature of our revenue and the variable rate nature of certain of our interest obligations create interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, it could have a negative effect on our profitability, and our lease and other revenue may become insufficient to meet our obligations. We have now, and may have in the future, exposure related to our leases and loans secured by letters of credit, some of which are issued by banks that may be affected by the severely distressed housing and credit markets or other factors. As of December 31, 2010, leases covering 417 triple-net leased facilities were secured by irrevocable letters of credit totaling $78.8 million. In the event that any of the tenants or borrowers related to these facilities become unable to meet their obligations, we are entitled to draw down on the letters of credit an amount equal to the earned and unpaid obligations. Our access to funds under the letters of credit is dependent on the ability of the issuing banks to meet their funding commitments. These banks might have incurred losses or might have reduced capital reserves as a result of their prior lending to other borrowers, their holdings of certain mortgage or other securities or losses they have sustained in connection with any other financial relationships, each of which may be affected by the general weakening of the U.S. economy and the increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, these banks might be or become capital constrained and might tighten their lending standards, or become insolvent. If they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, these banks might not be able to meet their funding commitments under our letters of credit. If an issuing bank has financial difficulties, we may be unable to draw down on a letter of credit, which could delay or reduce our ability to collect unpaid obligations and reduce our revenue and operating cash flow. Underinsured or uninsured losses and/or the failure of one or more of our insurance carriers could adversely impact our business. We and our tenants insure against a wide range of risks through insurance with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. However, there is no assurance that this insurance will fully cover all potential losses, and there are certain exposures for which insurance is not purchased when it is deemed it is not economically feasible to do so. Underinsured or uninsured losses could decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. Additionally, if the recent global financial crisis were to affect the solvency of any carrier providing insurance to us or any of our tenants, it could result in their inability to make payments on insurance claims, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or that of our tenants. In addition, the failure of one or more insurance companies may increase the costs to renew existing insurance policies. As owners of real estate, we are subject to environmental laws that expose us to the possibility of having to pay damages to the government and costs of remediation if there is contamination on our property. Under various laws, owners of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous substances present at a property and may be held liable for property damage or personal injuries that result from environmental contamination. These laws also expose us to the possibility that we become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination, regardless of whether we were aware of, or responsible for, the environmental contamination. We review environmental surveys of the facilities we own prior to 28 Table of Contents their purchase. Based upon those surveys we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination that could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. We may recognize impairment charges or losses on the sale of certain facilities. We review our long-lived assets individually on a quarterly basis to determine if there are indicators of impairment. For operating assets, if indicators of impairment exist, we compare the undiscounted cash flows from the expected use of the property to its net book value to determine if impairment exists. If the sum of the future estimated undiscounted cash flows is higher than the current net book value, we would conclude no impairment exists. If the sum of the future estimated undiscounted cash flows is lower than its current net book value, we would recognize an impairment loss for the difference between the net book value of the asset and its estimated fair value which would reduce our net income. From time to time, we classify certain facilities, including unoccupied buildings and land parcels, as assets held for sale. To the extent we are unable to sell these properties for net book value, we may be required to take an impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our net income. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture may exceed the fair value. If it is determined that a decline in the fair value of our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture is other-than-temporary and is below its carrying value, an impairment would be recorded which would reduce our net income. We may face competitive risks related to reinvestment of sale proceeds. From time to time, we will have cash available from (i) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (ii) principal payments on our loans receivable and (iii) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. In order to maintain our current financial results, we must re-invest these proceeds on a timely basis. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. Delays in completing investment transactions may negatively impact revenues and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and continued turbulence in financial markets could impair our ability to meet maturing commitments or make future investments necessary to grow our business. In order to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, we are required, among other things, to distribute each year to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gain. Because of this distribution requirement, we will not be able to fund, from cash retained from operations, all future capital needs, including capital needs to satisfy or refinance maturing commitments and to make investments. As a result, we rely on external sources of capital. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business, or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the ratings of our debt and even, in extreme circumstances, affect our ability to continue operations. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions and the market’s perception of our potential for future increases in earnings and cash distributions, as well as the market price of the shares of our capital stock. Recent market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slow growth. While there are current signs of a strengthening and stabilizing economy and more liquid and attractive capital markets, there are continued concerns about the uncertainty over whether our economy will again be adversely impacted by inflation, deflation or stagflation, and the systemic impact of high unemployment and energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of capital, the U.S. mortgage market and a 29 Table of Contents weak real estate market in the U.S., resulting in a return to illiquid credit markets and widening credit spreads. We had $525.0 million available under our $700.0 million revolving unsecured senior credit facility at December 31, 2010, and we have no current reason to believe that we will be unable to access the facility in the future. However, continued concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of borrowers specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce and, in some cases, cease to provide, funding to borrowers. In addition, the banks that are parties to the credit facility might have incurred losses or might have reduced capital reserves as a result of their prior lending to other borrowers, their holdings of certain mortgage or other securities or losses they have sustained in connection with any other financial relationships, each of which may be affected by the general weakening of the U.S. economy and the increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, these banks might be or become capital constrained and might tighten their lending standards, or become insolvent. If they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, these banks might not be able to meet their funding commitments under our credit facility. If we were unable to access our credit facility it could result in an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2010, we had $514.0 million of debt that matures in 2011 and $111.3 million of debt that matures in 2012. Additionally, $75.4 million of our senior notes can be put to us prior to the stated maturity date. There are no such senior notes that we may be required to repay in 2011, however, there is $52.4 million of such senior notes that we may be required to repay in 2012. If the adverse market conditions the U.S. recently experienced return, they may limit our ability to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our plans for growth require regular access to the capital and credit markets. If capital is not available at an acceptable cost, it will significantly impair our ability to make future investments as acquisitions and development projects become difficult or impractical to pursue. Our potential capital sources include: • Equity Financing. As with other publicly-traded companies, the availability of equity capital will depend, in part, on the market price of our common stock which, in turn, will depend upon various market conditions that may change from time to time. Among the market conditions and other factors that may affect the market price of our common stock are: • the extent of investor interest; • the reputation of REITs in general and the healthcare sector in particular and the attractiveness of REIT equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; • our financial performance and that of our tenants; • the contents of analyst reports about us and the REIT industry; • general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, which may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher annual yield from future distributions; • our failure to maintain or increase our dividend, which is dependent, to a large part, on growth of funds from operations which in turn depends upon increased revenues from existing investments, future investments and revenue increases; and • other factors such as governmental regulatory action and changes in REIT tax laws. The market value of the equity securities of a REIT is generally based upon the market’s perception of the REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future earnings and cash distributions. Our failure to meet the market’s expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. • Debt Financing/Leverage. Financing for our maturing commitments and future investments may be provided by borrowings under our credit facility, private or public offerings of debt, the assumption of secured indebtedness, mortgage financing on a portion of our owned portfolio or through joint ventures. We 30 Table of Contents are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risks that our cash flow will be insufficient to service our debt or make distributions to our stockholders, that we will be unable to refinance existing indebtedness or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness or may include restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, our cash flow may not be sufficient in all years to pay distributions to our stockholders and to repay all maturing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates, changes in our debt ratings, or other factors at the time of refinancing, result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase, which could reduce our profitability and the amount of dividends we are able to pay. Moreover, additional debt financing increases the amount of our leverage. The degree of leverage could have important consequences to stockholders, including affecting our investment grade ratings, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, investments, development or other general corporate purposes and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. • Joint Ventures. We may develop or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to the risks that: • our co-venturers or partners might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • our co-venturers or partners may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives (including actions that may be inconsistent with our REIT status); • our co-venturers or partners may have different objectives from us regarding the appropriate timing and pricing of any sale or refinancing of properties; and • our co-venturers or partners might become bankrupt or insolvent. Joint ventures require us to share decision-making authority with our co-venturers or partners, which limits our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval. A downgrade of our credit rating could impair our ability to obtain additional debt financing on favorable terms, if at all, and significantly reduce the trading price of our common stock. We currently have investment grade credit ratings of BBB from Fitch Ratings, Baa2 from Moody’s Investors Service and BBB from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (upgraded to BBB from BBB- on March 8, 2010) on our senior notes. If any of these rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, or place our rating under watch or review for possible downgrade, this could make it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing, and the trading price of our common stock will likely decline. Factors that may affect our credit rating include, among other things, our financial performance, our success in raising sufficient equity capital, adverse changes in our debt and fixed charge coverage ratios, our capital structure and level of indebtedness and pending or future changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our tenants and our industry. We cannot assure you that these credit agencies will not downgrade our credit rating in the future. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial results. As of December 31, 2010, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $1.5 billion and total assets of $4.1 billion. We expect to incur additional indebtedness in the future. The risks associated with financial leverage include: • increasing our sensitivity to general economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms; 31 Table of Contents • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness; • a possible downgrade of our credit rating; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. Our debt instruments contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. Covenants under our credit facility and our senior notes may limit management’s discretion by restricting our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, redeem our capital stock, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, pay dividends and make other distributions, make investments and other restricted payments and create liens. Any additional financing we may obtain could contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Our desire to comply with these covenants may in the future prevent us from taking certain actions that we would otherwise deem appropriate. If the holders of our senior notes exercise their rights to require us to repurchase their securities, we may have to make substantial payments, incur additional debt or issue equity securities to finance the repurchase. Some of our senior notes grant the holders the right to require us, on specified dates, to repurchase their securities at a price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. If the holders of these securities elect to require us to repurchase their securities, we may be required to make significant payments, which would adversely affect our liquidity. Alternatively, we could finance the repurchase through the issuance of additional debt securities, which may have terms that are not as favorable as the securities we are repurchasing, or equity securities, which would dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. We are subject to risks associated with derivative instruments. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to financial market risks, including interest rate risk on our interest-bearing liabilities. We endeavor to limit these risks by following established risk management policies, procedures and strategies, including, on occasion, the use of derivative instruments. These instruments may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates, and in the case of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements, there is a risk that we will not complete the forecasted debt issuance for which the swap is intended to hedge the related expected interest payments. Further, the counterparties to these instruments may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. Such events may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly. Stock markets, in general, and stock prices of participants in the healthcare industry, in particular, have recently experienced significant levels of volatility. Continued market volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As with other publicly traded securities, the trading price of our common stock depends on several factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: general market and economic conditions; our proposed merger with Ventas; the effects of direct governmental action in financial markets; prevailing interest rates; the market for similar securities issued by other REITs; our credit rating; and our financial condition and results of operations. A decision by any of our significant stockholders to sell a substantial amount of our common stock could depress our stock price. Based on filings with the SEC and shareholder reporting services, as of December 31, 2010, three of our stockholders owned at least five percent of our common stock and held an aggregate of approximately 21.4% of our common stock. A decision by any of these stockholders to sell a substantial amount of our common stock could depress the trading price of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents We may issue shares of preferred stock that would give holders of such shares rights that are senior to the rights of holders of our common stock or significant influence over our affairs, and their interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to designate and issue preferred stock that may have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to those of our common stock. Holders of our preferred stock would be entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common stock. Upon our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, before any payment is made to holders of our common stock, holders of our preferred stock would be entitled to receive a liquidation preference, plus any accumulated and unpaid distributions. This would reduce the remaining amount of our assets, if any, available to distribute to holders of our common stock. In addition, holders of our preferred stock may have the right to elect directors to our board of directors if preferred dividends are in arrears. There is no assurance that we will make distributions in the future. We intend to continue to pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders consistent with our historical practice. However, our ability to pay distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein occur. Our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our credit facility and our senior notes. All distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors, and our future distributions will depend upon our earnings, our cash flows, our anticipated cash flows, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT tax status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. We face risks associated with short-term liquid investments. At times we have significant cash balances that we invest in various short-term investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. These investments may include (either directly or indirectly) obligations of the U.S. government or its agencies, obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks, commercial paper, money market funds and other highly rated short-term securities. Investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to redeem all or part of our investment, and our right to redeem some or all of our investment may be delayed or suspended. In addition, there is no guarantee that our investments in theses securities or funds will be redeemable at par value. A decline in the value of our investment or a delay or suspension of our right to redeem may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our growth to date has been in part dependent on acquisitions which may not be available in the future, and we cannot make any assurances that any future growth strategies will be successful or not expose us to additional risks. Any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon our ability to identify and complete favorable transactions and will be subject to risks associated with acquisitions, including delays or failures in obtaining third party consents or approvals, the failure to achieve perceived benefits, unexpected costs or liabilities and potential litigation. To the extent that acquisitions are made in geographic markets in which we have not previously had a presence, we would be exposed to additional risks, including those associated with an inability to accurately evaluate local market conditions, a lack of business relationships in the area and an unfamiliarity with local governmental and other regulations. Additionally, with respect to large or highly sought-after transactions, we may be unable to successfully compete with companies that are larger or have a lower cost of capital than us, or which may be willing to assume more risk than us. A key component of our growth strategy includes efficient access to the capital and credit markets. In certain situations where the future availability of capital is uncertain, we may secure equity and/or debt financing without the ability to immediately deploy the capital to income producing investments. As a result, dilution of earnings and other per share financial measures could occur as a result of the issuance of additional shares of stock and/or increased interest expense. 33 Table of Contents Although we believe that we have been successful in the past, we can give no assurance that we would be able to successfully identify and complete favorable transactions and/or execute new growth strategies in the future. Unforeseen costs associated with investments in new properties could reduce our profitability. Our business strategy contemplates future investments that may not prove to be successful. For example, we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent and/or unknown liabilities with limited or no recourse, and newly-acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we issue equity securities or incur additional debt or both to finance future investments, it may reduce our per share financial results and/or increase our leverage. If we pursue new development projects, such projects would be subject to numerous risks, including risks of construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs, and new project commencement risks such as receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental approvals and permits. Moreover, if we agree to provide funding to enable healthcare operators to build, expand or renovate facilities on our properties and the project is not completed, we could be forced to become involved in the development to ensure completion or we could lose the property. These costs may negatively affect our results of operations. Increasing consolidation at the operator or REIT level could increase competition and reduce our profitability. Our business is highly competitive and it may become more competitive in the future. We compete with a number of healthcare REITs and other financing sources, some of which are larger than us. If consolidation occurs at the REIT or operator level, it could result in fewer investment opportunities for us and/or reduced profitability on our investments. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements due to inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a decline in our stock price. Compliance with changing government regulations may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards, including those relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, new SEC regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, may create uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our business practices. Also, legislative or regulatory efforts that seek to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through “green” building codes could increase the costs of maintaining or improving our existing properties or developing new properties. We are committed to maintaining high standards of compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and standards. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our 34 Table of Contents efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. During July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into federal law. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act include new regulations for over-the-counter derivatives and substantially increased regulation and risk of liability for credit rating agencies, all of which could increase our cost of capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions concerning corporate governance and executive compensation which, among other things, require additional executive compensation disclosures and enhanced independence requirements for board compensation committees and related advisors, as well as provide explicit authority for the SEC to adopt proxy access and non-binding stockholder “say on pay” voting, all of which could result in additional expenses in order to maintain compliance. The Dodd-Frank Act is wide-ranging, and the provisions are broad with significant discretion given to the many and varied agencies tasked with adopting and implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. The majority of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act do not go into effect immediately and may be adopted and implemented over many months or years. As such, we cannot predict the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key personnel, and if we are not successful in succession planning for our senior management team our business could be adversely impacted. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers, particularly our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Douglas M. Pasquale and our Executive Vice Presidents, Mr. Donald D. Bradley and Mr. Abdo H. Khoury. The loss of the services of these persons or the limitation of their availability could have an adverse impact on our operations. Although we have entered into employment or change in control agreements with certain of these executive officers, these agreements may not assure their continued service. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in our succession planning efforts, the continuity of our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted in the event that we are unable to retain one or more of these officers. Some of our directors are involved in other real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have potential conflicts of interest with us. From time to time, certain of our directors may own interests in other real estate related businesses and investments, and this may give rise to potential conflicts of interests. All directors, officers and employees must avoid conflicts of interest as prescribed by our Business Code of Conduct & Ethics (the “Code of Conduct”) and are required, on an annual basis, to certify their compliance with the requirements of the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct provides that no director shall participate in any decision by the board of directors or Audit Committee that in any way relates to a matter that gives rise to a conflict of interest, other than to provide the board of directors of Audit Committee with all relevant information relating to the matter. Related party transactions are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements. Our charter and bylaws and the laws of the state of our incorporation contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transactions that could provide stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock. In order to protect us against the risk of losing our REIT status for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our charter and bylaws prohibit (i) the beneficial ownership by any single person of more than 9.9% of the issued and outstanding shares of our stock, by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, and (ii) any transfer that would result in beneficial ownership of our stock by fewer than 100 persons. We have the right to redeem shares acquired or held in excess of the ownership limit. In addition, if any acquisition of our common or preferred stock violates the 9.9% ownership limit, the subject shares are automatically transferred to a trust temporarily for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and, ultimately, are transferred to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limit. Furthermore, where such transfer in trust would not prevent a violation of the ownership limits, the prohibited transfer is treated as void ab initio. The ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company and could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the market price for the shares of our common stock. Our board of directors has increased the ownership limit to 20% with respect to one of our stockholders, Cohen & Steers, Inc. (“Cohen & Steers”). 35 Table of Contents Cohen & Steers beneficially owned 3.5 million of our shares, or approximately 2.8% of our common stock, as of December 31, 2010. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional shares of common stock and one or more series of preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and other terms of any series of preferred stock that we issue. Although our board of directors has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred stock that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve the payment of a premium over the market price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, the laws of our state of incorporation and the following provisions of our charter may delay, defer or prevent a transaction that may be in the best interests of our stockholders: • certain business combinations must be approved by 90% of the outstanding shares unless the transaction receives a unanimous vote or consent of our board of directors or is a combination solely with a wholly owned subsidiary; and • the classification of our board of directors into three groups, with each group of directors being elected for successive three-year terms, may delay any attempt to replace our board. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act (“MBCA”) and the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act (“MCSA”). The MBCA may prohibit certain future acquirors of 10% or more of our stock (entitled to vote generally in the election of directors) and their affiliates from engaging in business combinations with us for a period of five years after such acquisition, and then only upon recommendation by the board of directors with (i) a stockholder vote of 80% of the votes entitled to be cast (including two-thirds of the stock not held by the acquiror and its affiliates) or (ii) if certain stringent fair price tests are met. The MCSA may cause acquirors of stock at levels in excess of 10%, 33% or 50% of the voting power of our stock to lose the voting rights of such stock unless voting rights are restored by vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes of stock held by the acquiring stockholder and our officers and employee directors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TAXATION AS A REIT If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. 36 Table of Contents Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates has been reduced by legislation to 15% through the end of 2012. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. For example, we have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, appreciated assets from a corporation that is not a REIT (i.e., a corporation taxable under subchapter C of the Internal Revenue Code) in a transaction in which we receive carry-over tax basis. If we subsequently dispose of those assets and recognize gain during the ten-year period following their acquisition, we may be subject to tax on such appreciation at the highest corporate income tax rate then applicable. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our non-healthcare assets through TRSs, or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates. We will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among our tenants, our TRS and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements with respect to our TRS limits our flexibility in operating or managing certain properties through our TRS. A TRS may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a healthcare facility. For REIT qualification purposes, the definition of a “healthcare facility” means a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and which, immediately before the termination, expiration, default, or breach of the lease of or mortgage secured by such facility, was operated by a provider of such services which was eligible for participation in the Medicare program under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act with respect to such facility. If the IRS were to treat a subsidiary corporation of ours as directly or indirectly operating or managing a healthcare facility, such subsidiary would not qualify as a TRS, which could jeopardize our REIT qualification under the REIT gross asset tests. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we continually must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income, asset-diversification or distribution requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of both the 75% and 95% gross income tests, if certain requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through one of our domestic TRSs. This could 37 Table of Contents increase the cost of our hedging activities because our domestic TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules that affect REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 