ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We are dependent on the utility industry, which has experienced volatility in capital spending. We derive the majority of our revenues from sales of products and services to the utility industry. Purchases of our products may be deferred as a result of many factors including mergers and acquisitions, regulatory decisions, weather conditions, rising interest rates, utility specific financial situations and general economic downturns. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, variability in operating results, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of these factors. Utility industry sales cycles can be lengthy and unpredictable. Sales cycles with customers in the utility industry, both domestic and foreign, are generally long and unpredictable due to customers’ budgeting, purchasing and regulatory processes that can take up to several years to complete. Our utility customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish evaluation committees, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost/benefit justifications and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying the normal budget approval process within a utility. Our quarterly results may fluctuate substantially. We have experienced variability of quarterly results, including losses, and believe our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate as a result of many factors, including costs related to acquisitions, including in-process research and development (IPR&D) and intangible amortization expenses, stock-based compensation, legal activity, unexpected warranty liabilities, restructuring charges, size and timing of significant customer orders, FCC or other governmental actions, the gain or loss of significant customers, timing and levels of new product developments, shifts in product or sales channel mix, increased competition and pricing pressure and general economic conditions affecting enterprise spending for the utility industry. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from a limited number of customers. Historically, our revenues have been concentrated with a limited number of customers, which change over time. The top ten customers in each year accounted for 26%, 30% and 35% of revenues for the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. No customer represented more than 10% of total company revenues in 2005, 2004 or 2003. From time to time, we are dependent on large, multi-year contracts that are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by our customers due to many factors, such as extreme, unexpected weather conditions or possible acts of terrorism. Cancellation or postponement of one or more of these significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. For example, in 2003, we had a large electric utility reschedule approximately $8 million of shipments booked for 2003 to 2004 due to the utility’s need to divert capital spending in order to rebuild critical infrastructure as a result of damage caused by a hurricane. In addition, if a large customer contract is not replaced upon its expiration with a new large contract, our business could be negatively affected. Our acquisitions of, and investments in, third parties carry risks. We have acquired five companies since December 31, 2001 and recorded acquisition investments of approximately $253 million in 2004 and $71 million in 2003. We expect to complete additional acquisitions and investments in the future. In order to finance future acquisitions, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks such as the diversion of senior management’s attention, unsuccessful integration of the acquired entity’s personnel, operations, technologies and products, lack of market acceptance of new services and technologies or a shift in industry dynamics that negatively impacts the forecasted demand for the new products. Impairment of an investment or goodwill and intangible assets may result if these risks materialize. There can be no assurances that an acquired business will perform as expected, accomplish our strategic objective or generate significant revenues, profits or cash flows. In addition, acquisitions and investments in third parties may involve the assumption of obligations or significant 11 Table of Contents one-time write-offs. Charges associated with acquisitions have included IPR&D expense, such as the $6.4 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2004 associated with our Electricity Metering acquisition. In addition, we have incurred impairments and write-offs of minority interest investments. We depend on our ability to develop new products. We have made, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in technology development. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance and sustain our existing products. This product development will require continued investment in order to maintain our market position. We may experience unforeseen problems in the development or performance of our technologies or products. In addition, we may not meet our product development schedules. Finally, we may not achieve market acceptance of our new products and solutions. We are facing increasing competition. We face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in each of the markets we serve. Some of our present and potential future competitors have, or may have, substantially greater financial, marketing, technical or manufacturing resources, and in some cases, greater name recognition and experience than we have. Some competitors may enter markets we serve and sell products at low prices in order to obtain market share. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that enhance their ability to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. In connection with our Electricity Metering acquisition and as an accommodation to concerns raised by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) regarding competition, we completed an agreement with Hunt Technologies, Inc., another AMR vendor, to license some of our electric meter module technology and certain other technology. Also to accommodate the FTC, we assigned to Neptune Technology Group Holdings, Inc. certain provisions of a 1995 license to make devices capable of receiving and reading transmissions from R-300 and electric ERTs. The licenses are fully paid and expire when the last of the licensed patents expire in 2006. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not materially affect our future sales growth at some point. Other companies may also produce products that are equal or superior to our products, which could reduce our market share, reduce our overall sales and require us to invest additional funds in new technology development. If we cannot compete successfully against current or future competitors, this will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are affected by availability and regulation of radio spectrum. A significant number of our products use radio spectrum and in the United States are subject to regulation by the FCC. Licenses for radio frequencies must be obtained and periodically renewed. Licenses granted to us or our customers may not be renewed on acceptable terms, if at all. The FCC may adopt changes to the rules for our licensed and unlicensed frequency bands that are incompatible with our business. In the past, the FCC has adopted changes to the requirements for equipment using radio spectrum, and it is possible that the FCC or Congress will adopt additional changes. We have committed, and will continue to commit, significant resources to the development of products that use particular radio frequencies. Action by the FCC could require modifications to our products. The inability to modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing such modifications and the cost of such modifications all could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Our radio-based products currently employ both licensed and unlicensed radio frequencies. There must be sufficient radio spectrum allocated by the FCC for our intended uses. As to the licensed frequencies, there is 12 Table of Contents some risk that there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain our planned operations. The unlicensed frequencies are available for a wide variety of uses and are not entitled to protection from interference by other users. The unlicensed frequencies are also often the subject of proposals to the FCC requesting a change in the rules under which such frequencies may be used. If the unlicensed frequencies become unacceptably crowded, restrictive or subject to changed rules governing their use, and no additional frequencies are allocated, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are also subject to regulatory requirements in foreign markets that vary by country. In those jurisdictions, licenses are generally required to operate a radio transmitter and such licenses may be for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. In some jurisdictions, the rules permit certain low power devices to operate on an unlicensed basis. Most of our ERT modules and AMR-equipped electronic residential electricity meters are devices that transmit information back to handheld, mobile or fixed network AMR reading devices in unlicensed bands pursuant to rules regulating such use. To the extent we wish to introduce products designed for use in the United States or another country into a new market, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. Further, in some countries, limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude us from selling our products in those countries. We may face liability associated with the use of products for which patent ownership or other intellectual property rights are claimed. We may be subject to claims or inquiries regarding alleged unauthorized use of a third party’s intellectual property. An adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license technology or other intellectual property rights from others, require us to comply with injunctions to cease marketing or using certain products or brands, or require us to redesign, re-engineer, or rebrand certain products or packaging, any of which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to seek licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to acquire these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the cost of responding to an intellectual property infringement claim, in terms of legal fees, expenses and the diversion of management resources, whether or not the claim is valid, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer. We generally indemnify our customers with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties my assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. While we believe that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property have significant value, it is uncertain that this intellectual property, or any intellectual property acquired or developed by us in the future, will provide meaningful competitive advantages. There can be no assurance that our patents or pending applications will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors or that rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful proprietary protection. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To combat infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to commence litigation, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding a court may decide that a patent or other intellectual property right of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology or other intellectual property right at issue on the grounds that it is non-infringing. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we cannot 13 Table of Contents provide assurance that we will be able to, or have the resources to, prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We may face warranty exposure that exceeds our recorded liability. We provide product warranties for varying lengths of time. In anticipation of warranty expenses, we establish allowances for the estimated liability associated with product warranties and product-failure related costs. However, these warranty and related product-failure allowances may be inadequate due to undetected product defects, unanticipated component failures, as well as changes in various estimates for material, labor and other costs we may incur to replace projected product failures. Therefore, we may incur additional warranty and related expenses in the future with respect to new or established products. In 2004 and 2003, we incurred approximately $2.6 million and $12.3 million, respectively, of warranty expense that had not previously been anticipated for a specific product failure that resulted from a defective component provided by a supplier. Our key manufacturing facilities are concentrated. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of electricity meters, which we manufacture in our Oconee facility, and from the sale of AMR meter modules, which we manufacture in our Waseca facility. In the event of a significant interruption in production at either of our manufacturing facilities, considerable time and effort could be required to establish alternative production lines, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Each facility has developed a disaster recovery plan that provides for the continuation of production in the event of a disaster. A number of key personnel are critical to the success of our business. Our success depends in large part on the efforts of our highly qualified technical and management personnel in all disciplines. The loss of one or more of these employees and the inability to attract and retain qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on certain key vendors. Certain of our products, subassemblies and system components are procured from limited sources. Our reliance on such limited sources involves certain risks, including the possibility of shortages and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality and costs. In addition, we depend on one contract manufacturing vendor for a large portion of our low-volume manufacturing business and all of our repair services for our domestic handheld meter reading units. If that vendor should become unable to perform its responsibilities, our operations could be materially disrupted. We are subject to international business uncertainties. We conduct operations outside the United States. International sales and operations may be subject to risks such as the imposition of government controls, political instability, restrictions on the import or export of critical technology, currency exchange rate fluctuations, adverse tax burdens, availability of qualified third-party financing, generally longer collection periods, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, potential insolvency of international dealers, burdens of complying with different permitting standards and a wide variety of foreign laws and obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar impact our ability to compete in international markets. International expansion and market acceptance depend on our ability to modify our technology to take into account such factors as the applicable regulatory and business environment, labor costs and other economic conditions. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our products or technology to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to regulatory compliance. We are subject to various governmental regulations including those related to occupational safety and health, labor and wage practices and regulations regarding the performance of certain engineering services. Failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our production processes, cessation of operations or other actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur liabilities arising from the use of hazardous materials. Our business and our facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances governing, among other things, the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, disposal, remediation of, or exposure to toxic or other hazardous substances and certain waste products. Many of these environmental laws and regulations subject current or previous owners or operators of land to liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials. In addition, these laws and regulations typically impose liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials and regardless of whether the actions that led to the presence were conducted in compliance with the law. In the ordinary course of our business, like that of other companies engaged in similar businesses, we use metals, solvents and similar materials, which are stored on site. The waste created by the use of these materials is transported off site on a regular basis by unaffiliated waste haulers. Many environmental laws and regulations require generators of waste to take remedial actions at the off site disposal location even if the disposal was conducted in compliance with the law. The requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. Failure to comply with current or future environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our production processes, cessation of operations or other actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that a claim, investigation or liability will not arise with respect to these activities, or that the cost of complying with governmental regulations in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on us. With respect to our Oconee facility, certain environmental remedial activities are required pursuant to a consent agreement between Schlumberger (and various related parties), from whom we purchased our Electricity Metering operations in July 2004, and the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control. The consent agreement requires Schlumberger to investigate and remediate groundwater contamination and all releases of any hazardous waste or hazardous constituents that present an actual or potential threat to human health and the environment. Under the terms of our Electricity Metering acquisition, Schlumberger agreed to complete all remedial obligations associated with the consent agreement, and agreed to indemnify us for all costs incurred as a result of any releases and generation or transportation of hazardous materials prior to the acquisition. Although we expect Schlumberger to comply with the terms of the consent agreement and the acquisition, there is a risk that such remediation will interfere with our future use of the Oconee property, or if Schlumberger did not comply, the remediation responsibility would transfer to us. We also could face costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. The European Union has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of certain types of electrical equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for the individual member states of the EU to enact the directive in their respective countries was August 13, 2004 (such legislation, together with the directive is referred to as the WEEE Legislation). Producers participating in the market became financially responsible for implementing their responsibilities under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. Implementation in certain EU member states may be delayed into 2006. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan. Our potential liability resulting from the WEEE and similar legislations could become substantial. 15 Table of Contents Our senior secured credit facility and the indenture related to our senior subordinated notes limit our ability and the ability of most of our subsidiaries to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facility (credit facility) and our senior subordinated notes will, among other things, place restrictions on our ability and the ability of most of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur more debt; • pay dividends and make distributions; • make certain investments; • redeem or repurchase capital stock; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale lease-back transactions; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer or sell assets. Our credit facility also contains other customary covenants, including requiring us to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. Our ability to borrow under our credit facility will depend on the satisfaction of these covenants. Events beyond our control can affect our ability to meet those covenants. Our failure to comply with obligations under the indenture or the credit facility may result in declaration of an event of default. An event of default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of indebtedness. We cannot be certain we will be able to remedy any such defaults. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to borrow sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. Our ability to service our indebtedness is dependant on our ability to generate cash, which is influenced by many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on or refinance our indebtedness, fund planned capital expenditures and continue research and development will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 16 Table of Contents MANAGEMENT Executive Officers of the Registrant Set forth below are the names, ages and titles of the executive officers of Itron as of January 31, 2006. Name Age Position LeRoy D. Nosbaum 59 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board Steven M. Helmbrecht 43 Sr. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Russell N. Fairbanks, Jr. 62 Sr. Vice President and General Counsel Philip C. Mezey 46 Sr. Vice President, Software Solutions Malcolm Unsworth 56 Sr. Vice President, Hardware Solutions Jared P. Serff 37 Vice President, Competitive Resources LeRoy Nosbaum is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Since joining Itron in 1996, Mr. Nosbaum has held positions as Chief Operating Officer and Vice President with responsibilities over manufacturing, product development, operations and marketing. Before joining Itron, Mr. Nosbaum was with Metricom Inc., a supplier of wireless data communications networking technology. Prior to joining Metricom, Mr. Nosbaum was with Schlumberger from 1969 to 1989 in various roles, including General Manager of Schlumberger’s Integrated Metering Systems Division. Steve Helmbrecht was named Sr. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in January 2005. Mr. Helmbrecht joined Itron in 2002 as Vice President and General Manager, International Market. From 2000 to 2002, Mr. Helmbrecht was Chief Financial Officer of LineSoft Corporation (LineSoft). Prior to joining LineSoft, Mr. Helmbrecht spent seven years with SS&C Technologies, Inc., a software company focused on portfolio management and accounting systems for institutional investors. Russ Fairbanks is Sr. Vice President and General Counsel and joined Itron in 2000. From 1997 to 1999, Mr. Fairbanks served as Vice President and General Counsel for ASM America, Inc., a manufacturer of chemical vapor deposition equipment used to make integrated circuits. Philip Mezey is Sr. Vice President, Software Solutions. Mr. Mezey joined Itron in March 2003 as Managing Director of Software Development for Itron’s Energy Management Solutions Group upon Itron’s acquisition of Silicon Energy Corp. (Silicon). Mr. Mezey joined Silicon in 2000 as Vice President, Software Development. Prior to joining Silicon, Mr. Mezey was a founding member of Indus, a leading provider of integrated asset and customer management software and was with Indus for 12 years with various responsibilities for product development and services for utility solutions. Malcolm Unsworth is Sr. Vice President, Hardware Solutions. Mr. Unsworth joined Itron in July 2004 as part of our Electricity Metering acquisition. Mr. Unsworth spent 25 years with Schlumberger, including 11 associated with the electricity meter business where he served as President of Schlumberger’s electricity metering business. Mr. Unsworth also served as Vice President and General Manager of Schlumberger’s North America Operations in charge of water, electricity and gas products. Jared Serff is Vice President, Competitive Resources. Mr. Serff joined Itron in July 2004, as part of our Electricity Metering acquisition. Mr. Serff spent six years with Schlumberger, including four associated with the Schlumberger electricity metering business. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 