Risk Factors” in Item 1A. PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS Available Information Documents we provide to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available free of charge under the Investors section of our website at www.itron.com as soon as practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, these documents are available at the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC’s Headquarters at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. General For nearly 30 years we have provided solutions to electric, gas and water utilities worldwide to enable them to optimize the delivery and use of energy and water. Our solutions include electric meters, handheld computers, mobile and fixed network automated meter reading (AMR), advanced metering infrastructure (AMI), water leak detection and related software and services. Additionally, we sell enterprise software to manage, analyze and forecast important utility data. Our solutions enable utilities to: • reduce costs; • increase efficiencies; • increase reliability; • reduce risks; • comply with regulations; • optimize asset utilization; and • improve customer service. In addition to these operational benefits, our solutions help utilities meet regulatory and customer requirements for improved service, efficiency and system reliability. The U.S. Energy Policy Act of 2005 requires electric utilities to consider offering their customers time-based rates and directs these utilities and state utility commissions to study and evaluate methods for implementing demand response and improving power generation. As a result of these circumstances and others, we believe there will be an increased need for our solutions. Market Overview We market all of our products and services to utilities in the United States and Canada and we estimate that market includes approximately 4,400 electric and gas utilities and over 60,000 water utilities. In addition to the United States and Canada, we market our electricity metering products, meter data collection systems and software knowledge applications to utilities in a number of countries around the world. 1 Table of Contents Electricity Meters In the United States and Canada, there are approximately 150 million electricity meters, of which approximately 135 million are residential. Of those residential meters, we estimate approximately 80% are electromechanical, using a mechanical register to measure electricity consumption, and the balance use electronic technology to measure electricity consumption. Most commercial and industrial (C&I) and generation, transmission and distribution (GT&D) meters use electronic technology. Electronic technology provides increased capabilities, reliability and accuracy and facilitates the integration of embedded AMR functionality in electricity meters. Our electronic residential electricity metering technology has been commercially available since 1998. We believe that our meters represent between 80% and 90% of the installed base of electronic residential electricity meters in the United States and Canada. We believe that the total available market for electronic residential meters will increase; however, we expect that our percentage share will decrease over time as other meter suppliers have also introduced electronic residential meters. We estimate over 75% of all meters sold in 2006 were electronic and we expect that percentage to continue increasing. Electricity metering industry growth has traditionally been driven by new construction and replacement of old meters. Metering products are critical components of an electric utility’s distribution infrastructure and, as such, meter purchases for new construction and normal meter replacements are typically not affected by factors that influence overall utility capital spending. The U.S. electricity metering market has shown consistent growth between 3% and 5% annually. Our electricity meters in the United States and Canada comply with the standards established by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and Measurement Canada. We ship electricity meters to a number of other countries, where we comply with their particular standards, including different physical configurations and certification requirements. The largest concentrations of shipments outside the United States and Canada are in Brazil, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and Mexico. Meter Data Collection In addition to the approximately 150 million electricity meters, there are approximately 75 million gas meters and 80 million water meters in the United States and Canada. We estimate that of these 305 million meters, between 25% and 30% are read with AMR systems, of which over half are read with our AMR technology. Outside the United States and Canada, we estimate there are approximately 2.1 billion meters (electricity, gas and water), of which approximately 35 million meters were automated as of December 31, 2006, representing less than 2% market penetration. AMR industry growth has primarily been driven by the need for operational cost reductions, increased accuracy, improved service, theft detection, more frequent meter data collection requirements, as well as other factors. Industry surveys indicate that a majority of utilities in the United States and Canada intend to implement AMR and many of those utilities intend to automate every meter in their service area. AMR industry growth has historically varied, however, due to the project-based nature of orders. The timing of purchases can be affected by many factors including utility capital spending levels, the impact of extreme weather conditions and regulatory changes. The compounded annual growth rate for AMR in North America averaged 15% from 2001 through 2006. The annual growth rate has ranged from a peak of 31% in 2001, a reduction of 7% in 2004 and growth of 21% in 2006. The development of AMI technology could impact this growth in future periods. AMR solutions vary, from handheld and mobile collection systems to fixed networks and satellite telemetry. The majority of utilities in the United States and Canada use handheld computers for electricity, gas and water meter reading. We estimate approximately 65% to 75% of the meters in the United States that use AMR to read their meters use handheld AMR meter reading systems. The market for future sales of handheld meter reading systems consists primarily of upgrade and replacement sales. With the shift to more automated methods of meter data collection, and handheld systems consisting primarily of upgrade and replacement sales, shipments of mobile collection systems in North America were approximately 75% of total AMR shipments in 2005, while fixed network systems were approximately 25%. Electric utilities have installed a higher percentage of fixed network systems, as compared with gas and water utilities. The market for mobile and fixed network systems continues to grow as utilities migrate to these more automated methods of meter data collection. 2 Table of Contents Software We provide software for meter data collection, workforce management, meter data management and other more advanced knowledge applications. In addition to software, we offer professional services for the implementation, system testing and integration of software as well as consulting, training, maintenance and software hosting. The market and growth rates for our software licenses and related implementation and consulting services are difficult to estimate and predict. We believe the need for more frequent meter reads will lead to growth in data collection and meter data management software. Growth in meter data collection software is primarily affected by handheld upgrade and replacement cycles and by new purchases of AMR systems. C&I meter data collection software system growth is primarily influenced by platform upgrades in North America and by new sales in foreign markets. In the United States and Canada we currently have a 90% market share among the largest electric utilities for C&I software with our MV-90® product. We believe that as utilities adopt AMR and AMI systems that include more frequent meter and interval reads, we can leverage our leading position and our expertise for residential market applications and meter data management systems. Segment Products We have two operating groups: Hardware Solutions and Software Solutions. Hardware Solutions is comprised of two segments, Electricity Metering and Meter Data Collection and Software Solutions represents a single segment. See Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for segment results. Electricity Metering Segment ¡ Residential Meters. In the United States and Canada, residential meters account for 80% to 90% of the meters in a utility’s distribution system. Residential electricity meters are less complex and typically less expensive than other types of meters. Our residential electricity meters are based on a flexible product platform allowing the product to be adapted to customers’ different communications and register preferences. Our electronic CENTRON® electricity meter incorporates a two-piece design that combines a base metrology with a variety of electronic registers that enable different measurement, storage, communications and AMR functions. Our electronic meters allow for the inclusion of Itron technology as well as competitive AMR technology within the meter. To focus on increasing market demand for electronic electricity meters, in 2005 we stopped manufacturing electromechanical residential electricity meters. ¡ Commercial and Industrial Meters. In the United States and Canada, C&I meters account for 10% to 20% of the meters in a utility’s distribution system. Due to the various voltage requirements and consumption behaviors of C&I customers, these meters are more complex than residential meters, providing additional measurement capabilities such as demand, time-of-use, load profile, reactive measurement and monitoring power and voltage quality. All C&I meters sold today employ electronic technology. Our electronic SENTINEL® and CENTRON Polyphase meters are our primary meters for C&I use. ¡ Generation, Transmission and Distribution Meters. The market for GT&D meters accounts for a relatively small number of units shipped in a given year. These meters are the most complex electricity meters and are typically used by utilities for large industrial customers and include applications such as monitoring power quality and interruption, system optimization and bulk power measurements. The QUANTUM® Q1000 and SENTINEL are our primary meters for GT&D use. ¡ International Meters. We also offer a line of residential, C&I and GT&D meters for use outside the United States and Canada. The primary differences between meters used in the United States and Canada and foreign markets are the physical configuration and certification requirements of the meters. These requirements include those established by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), the international standard setting body for all fields of electrotechnology, as well as those established by individual countries including Brazil’s Associação Brasileira de Normas Técnicas (ABNT), the Netherlands Information Service (NIS) and the Japan Electric Meters Inspection Corporation (JEMIC). 3 Table of Contents ¡ Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI). A growing number of utilities are in regulatory or operating environments, which are encouraging capabilities supported only through two-way communication to the meter and other network devices. We have developed a new electric metering system, OpenWay™, which is currently being deployed in select areas in the United States and Canada. The OpenWay system is designed to deliver an open-architecture, along with standards based protocols and communication standards that communicate two-way with both residential and commercial electricity meters. OpenWay allows for advanced data recovery as well as enabling certain command and control functions wanted from an AMI system. Through ZigBee™ based gateways (a low-power, short distance wireless standard), OpenWay also enables the utility to communicate with their customers and with in-home monitoring devices. ZigBee technology also allows the ability to gather gas and water meter reads. OpenWay allows utilities the ability to offer time-of-use rates, critical peak pricing, peak load reduction and perform flexible demand response, which are aligned with the objectives of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. OpenWay uses the utility’s choice of public communication platforms to transfer data. These communication platforms include GPRS (general packet radio service), Ethernet, PSTN (public switched telephone networks), BPL (broadband over powerline), WiFi, WiMax and others. Meter Data Collection Segment ¡ AMR Modules. Our standalone AMR modules are radio-based and can be retrofitted to existing electricity, gas or water meters or installed in or on new meters. The AMR modules encode consumption, tamper and other information from the meters and communicate the data via radio to our handheld, mobile and network radio-based data collection technology. Standalone electric AMR modules are typically installed under the glass of electromechanical electricity meters and are powered by the electricity running through the meter. In 2006, we stopped manufacturing standalone electric AMR modules due to a planned shift to install new electricity meters with embedded AMR rather than retrofit old electromechanical meters with AMR modules. We now only embed our AMR technology into our electronic electricity meters and we license our technology to third parties, including meter manufacturers who either manufacture their own AMR modules or embed our AMR technology into their meters. Gas and water AMR modules are attached to the meters and are powered by long-life batteries and can be retrofitted in the field. We also offer a separate line of AMR modules for use outside the United States and Canada. The primary differences between the AMR modules used in the United States and Canada and those used in foreign markets are the radio frequency bands in which they operate and the physical configuration and certification requirements of the modules. ¡ Handheld Meter Reading and Handheld AMR. We provide several models of handheld computers that are used by meter readers to walk a route, visually read the meters and input the data. Each model is designed for use in harsh environments with standard text and graphics, back-lit displays, several memory sizes, multiple communication options, interface devices for electronic meters and easy-to-use customizable keyboards. Most handheld units we sell today are radio-equipped (handheld AMR). With handheld AMR, a meter reader walks a route with a radio-equipped handheld computer, which has the ability to communicate with nearby AMR-enabled meters. Handheld AMR is utilized when manually reading the meter is inefficient or hazardous. Examples of this would be when meters are located in a basement, a locked or otherwise secured backyard or in other situations where access to a meter is difficult or dangerous. ¡ Mobile AMR. Mobile AMR uses a radio transceiver located in a vehicle that communicates with all AMR-enabled meters within range and receives meter reading, tamper and other information back from the meters. Mobile AMR is designed for reading concentrated deployments of AMR-enabled meters. With mobile AMR, a meter reader can read tens of thousands of meters in a day compared with hundreds of meters with handheld meter reading, which dramatically improves efficiency and reduces costs relative to handheld meter reading and handheld AMR. ¡ Fixed Network AMR. Fixed network AMR uses locally-installed concentrators and radio frequency repeaters to communicate with electricity, gas and water AMR-enabled meters. Concentrators use the 4 Table of Contents utility’s choice of public communication platforms, and include GPRS (general packet radio service), Ethernet, PSTN (public switched telephone networks), BPL (broadband over powerline) and others to transfer data between the concentrators and a host processor at a utility. Fixed network AMR is designed for frequent data collection and is scalable to be cost effectively installed in both large, concentrated deployments as well as smaller, strategic deployments. Fixed network AMR supports a utility’s ability to perform a number of advanced applications such as interval meter data collection, time-of-use billing, load profiling, leak and tamper detection, off-cycle reads, outage detection and restoration notification and data logging, among others. ¡ Leak Detection. With the acquisition of Flow Metrix, Inc., in November 2006, our advanced water leak detection systems provide enterprise solutions for pipeline management. Using patented acoustic technology, water utilities can analyze vibration patterns from anywhere in the distribution system, significantly improving their ability to proactively maintain their water infrastructure. AMR systems gather the data while reading water meters. Software is used to analyze the data collected and provide the utility with intelligent analysis to help pinpoint leaks. Software Solutions Segment ¡ Data Collection and Workforce Management. We provide a variety of software knowledge applications for managing the collection and transmission of data from our meter data collection systems. These data collection systems provide meter data for billing systems, data warehouses, Internet data presentment and our knowledge applications. Our workforce management software enables utilities to streamline and automate many of the processes associated with field service activities, including endpoint installations, turn-ons/turn-offs, gas leak detection, credit and collections, meter services and trouble calls. Our software automates the real-time dispatching of work and electronically captures work order completion information in the field. ¡ Meter Data Management. We provide solutions for residential and C&I meter data management. Our meter data management software solutions provide functionality to support the process of meter data collection using open and flexible interfaces, data validation, estimation and editing, complex calculations and aggregation, time-of-use and interactive graphics. These databases are used for other complex data applications. ¡ Knowledge Applications. We provide utilities and large commercial and industrial end-users with software knowledge applications, data warehouses and analytic and visualization tools that leverage the meter and other data collected. Our knowledge applications can work with data stored by the utility, by Itron or other third party collection and meter data management systems. This broad category of applications includes operational and analytic software systems such as: • C&I complex billing; • web-based usage analysis for customers with advanced metering data and C&I customers (customer care); • distribution asset analysis; • load research; • revenue protection, including theft detection and identification of unbilled revenue; • C&I and residential load management; and • central market data collection and load settlement. Our forecasting services and software products are used by utilities, market operators, government agencies and others for predicting: • load growth and requirements; • revenue; • new facility requirements; • customer reaction to proposed programs and rates; • day-ahead energy needs; and • longer-term energy needs. 5 Table of Contents We offer energy management and load curtailment solutions that use wireless or Internet communications to enable utilities to gain load relief when needed most and to offer customers incentives for participation. We also offer software solutions directly to large energy end-users for gathering and managing meter data, energy bills, budget and weather data along with automated tools to streamline and manage energy costs at the corporate level. ¡ Distribution System Design and Asset Management. We provide utilities with a variety of tools, data and analytics to improve distribution and asset management decisions and cross-functional coordination. We also provide software for distribution system design, which optimizes safety, reliability and capacity. Our software can predict loading, streamline workflows, reduce cycle times, maximize design resources and reduce overhead. ¡ Consulting and Analysis. We provide consulting and analysis (C&A) in the areas of market research, load research, renewable and distribution generation program design and evaluation, energy efficiency program evaluation and design, energy policies, rate design and regulatory support. The C&A client base in these areas is comprised of major energy utilities, research organizations, government agencies and other clients throughout the United States. Operational Capabilities Sales and Distribution We have two sales forces in North America, one for Hardware Solutions and another for Software Solutions. We also have an international sales force. All three sales forces use a combination of direct and indirect sales channels. For the largest electric, gas and water utilities, with which we have long established relationships, we utilize a direct sales force with technical support teams. For smaller utilities, and in certain foreign markets, we use an indirect sales force that consists of distributors, representative agencies, partners and meter manufacturer representatives. We also sell electricity and water AMR modules through original equipment manufacturer arrangements with several major meter manufacturers. In these arrangements, manufacturers incorporate our AMR modules into new meters and then offer these AMR-enabled meters for sale. We also license our AMR technology to certain meter manufacturers who embed our AMR technology into their meters. One customer, Progress Energy, represented 16% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. No single customer represented more than 10% of total revenues for 2005 or 2004. The 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 40% of total revenues during 2006. During 2005 and 2004, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 26% and 30%, respectively. Manufacturing We manufacture our gas and water AMR modules in our facility in Waseca, Minnesota (Waseca). We currently have the capacity to produce over six million gas and water AMR modules annually. We outsource to contract manufacturers certain handheld systems and peripheral equipment, as well as low volume AMR products. We manufacture electricity meters in our facilities in Oconee County, South Carolina (Oconee) and in Campinas, Brazil. Historically, the Oconee facility has manufactured both electronic and electromechanical residential electricity meters. We stopped manufacturing electromechanical electricity meters on June 30, 2005. During 2005 and 2006, we expanded capacity for electronic residential electricity meters and at December 31, 2006, our Oconee facility had the capacity to produce approximately seven million meters (combination of residential, C&I and GT&D) annually. In July 2006 we opened a production facility in Campinas, Brazil, where we produce electronic electricity meters specifically for the Brazilian and South American markets. Currently, our Campinas facility has the capacity to produce approximately 300,000 meters annually. We also have a facility in Taipei, Taiwan that assembles and tests meters shipped from the Oconee facility. Our Waseca and Oconee facilities are certified to the ISO 9001-2000 standard and we pursue continuous improvement using lean manufacturing initiatives. 6 Table of Contents Product Development We are committed to the development of new products and the continued enhancement of our existing products. Our current product development focus is on improvements to existing technology as well as the development of next-generation technology for electricity meters, data collection, communications technologies, data warehousing and software knowledge applications. In addition, we are developing technology for foreign markets for both meters and meter data collection. We spent approximately $59 million, $47 million and $44 million on product development in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. During 2006, we had a strong focus on our AMI solution development. Professional Services We offer professional services that help our customers implement, install, project manage and maintain their meter reading systems. Our service professionals assist our customers in identifying and correcting issues, optimizing the use of our solutions and providing training and education. We have a call center available 24 hours a day to help customers with problems they may encounter. In addition, we have service and repair depots for our handheld and AMR systems in several locations. Marketing Our marketing efforts focus on Company brand recognition and product solutions through an integrated marketing communications approach that includes participation in industry trade shows, webinars, brochures, published papers, case studies, our global website, print advertising, direct mail, newsletters and conferences. We maintain communications with our customers through integrated and targeted marketing campaigns, market surveys, market trend analysis and our annual Itron Users’ Conference. Employees At December 31, 2006, we employed approximately 2,400 full-time-equivalent people, with approximately 83% of these employees located in the United States. No employees are represented by labor unions and we have not experienced any work stoppages. We consider our employee relations to be good. Competition We provide a broad portfolio of products, systems and services to customers in the utility industry and compete with a large number of competitors who also offer similar products, systems and services. We believe that our competitive advantage is based on integrated solutions, total cost of ownership and product innovation, including improvements to the core electricity meters. We offer solutions for gas, electric and water utilities that include upgradeable AMR systems and knowledge application tools. During recent years, vendor consolidation has occurred in the industry. Many of our competitors are larger or are owned by larger companies and may have the ability to better withstand variations in business cycles. In many of our markets, there are participants who may be both competitors and partners. Our primary competitors in the North American electricity metering industry are Elster Metering, Landis+Gyr AG, General Electric Company and Sensus Metering Systems Inc. These competitors offer a broad range of electricity meters for both residential and C&I use, and some also offer AMR technology. Elster Metering, Landis+Gyr AG, General Electric Company and Sensus Metering Systems, Inc. offer electronic residential electricity meters. Sensus Metering Systems Inc., Elster Metering and General Electric Company currently embed our AMR technology in their electronic electricity meters through licensing and other arrangements. We compete with a variety of AMR providers including Badger Meter, Inc., Cellnet Technology, Inc., Elster Metering, ESCO Technologies Inc., Hunt Technologies, LLC and Neptune Technology Group. We have agreements with Hunt Technologies, LLC and General Electric Company to license some of our electric meter module technology and certain other technology. We face a variety of competitors with our software knowledge applications and services based on the specialized nature of our product offerings. We believe we will face increasing competition from billing and in-home-controls 7 Table of Contents companies and may, in some cases, enter into cooperative relationships to jointly develop and offer solutions to this market. In our distribution system design and asset management business, we compete with Cook-Hurlbert Inc., GE Network Products and others. In the meter data management and knowledge application area we compete with Lodestar Corporation, Nexus Energy Software, Inc., eMeter Corporation, Energy ICT and Schneider Electric SA. We currently partner with consulting and system integration companies, such as Capgemini, IBM Corporation and Accenture LTD, to address energy market needs. Bookings and Backlog of Orders Bookings for a reported period represent contracts and purchase orders received during the specified period. Total backlog represents committed but undelivered contracts and purchase orders at period end. Twelve-month backlog represents the portion of total backlog that we estimate will be recognized as revenue over the next twelve months. Bookings and backlog exclude maintenance-related activity. Backlog is not a complete measure of our future business as we have a significant portion of our business that is book-and-ship. Bookings and backlog can fluctuate significantly due to the timing of large project awards. In addition, annual or multi-year contracts are subject to rescheduling and cancellation by customers due to the long-term nature of the contracts. Beginning total backlog, plus bookings, less sales revenues will not always equal ending total backlog due to miscellaneous contract adjustments and other factors. Information on bookings and backlog is summarized as follows: Year Ended TotalBookings TotalBacklog 12-MonthBacklog (in millions) December 31, 2006 $ 652 $ 392 $ 225 December 31, 2005 655 324 188 December 31, 2004 358 179 97 Other Business Considerations Intellectual Property We own or license approximately 285 U.S. and counterpart Canadian and foreign patents and have on file approximately 85 U.S. and 145 counterpart international patent applications. These patents cover a range of technologies related to electricity metering, portable handheld computers, water leak detection and AMR related technologies. We also rely on a combination of copyrights and trade secrets to protect our products and technologies. We have registered trademarks for most of our major product lines in the United States and many foreign countries. Our registered trademarks include, but are not limited to ITRON®, MV-90®, MV-90®xi, “KNOWLEDGE TO SHAPE YOUR FUTURE®”, ERT®, CENTRON®, EEM SUITE®, QUANTUM® Q1000, SERVICE-LINK® and SENTINEL® and our unregistered trademarks include, but are not limited to LD-PRO™, ENDPOINT-LINK™, ITRON ENTERPRISE EDITION™, METRIXND™, OPENWAY™, UNILOG™ and MLOG™. Disputes over the ownership, registration and enforcement of intellectual property rights arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are not currently a party to any material intellectual property litigation. We license some of our technology to other companies, some of whom are our competitors. Regulation and Allocation of Radio Frequencies Certain of our products made for the U.S. market use radio frequencies, which are regulated by the FCC pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. In general, a radio station license issued by the FCC is required to operate a radio transmitter. The FCC issues these licenses for a fixed term, and the licenses must be periodically renewed. Because of interference constraints, the FCC can generally issue only a limited number of radio station licenses for a particular frequency band in any one area. 8 Table of Contents Although radio licenses generally are required for radio stations, Part 15 of the FCC’s rules permit certain low-power radio devices (Part 15 devices) to operate on an unlicensed basis. Part 15 devices are designed for use on frequencies used by others. These other users may include licensed users, which have priority over Part 15 users. Part 15 devices are not permitted to cause harmful interference to licensed users and must be designed to accept interference from licensed radio devices. Our AMR modules and AMR-equipped electronic residential electricity meters are typically Part 15 devices that transmit information back to handheld, mobile or fixed network AMR reading devices in the 902-928 MHz band pursuant to these rules. On May 24, 2002, the FCC adopted service rules governing the use of the 1427-1432 MHz band. We use this band in connection with various devices in our network solutions. Among other things, the new rules reserve the upper 2.5 MHz of the band for general telemetry, including utility telemetry, and provide that nonexclusive licenses will be issued in accordance with Part 90 rules and the recommendations of frequency coordinators. Telemetry licensees must comply with power limits and out-of-band emission requirements that are designed to avoid interference with the use of the lower part of the band by hospitals. Although the FCC will issue licenses on a nonexclusive basis and it is possible that the demand for spectrum will exceed supply, we believe we will continue to have access to sufficient spectrum in the 1429.5-1432 MHz band under favorable conditions. In foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business, certain of our products also require the use of radio frequencies, which are regulated by the foreign equivalent of the FCC. In those jurisdictions, radio station licensees are generally required to operate a radio transmitter and such licenses may be for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. In some jurisdictions, the rules permit certain low power devices to operate on an unlicensed basis. Our AMR modules and AMR-equipped electronic residential electricity meters typically are devices that transmit information back to handheld, mobile or fixed network AMR reading devices in unlicensed bands pursuant to rules regulating such use. In either case, although the availability of unlicensed bands or radio station licenses for a particular frequency band in a foreign jurisdiction may be limited, we believe we will continue to have access to sufficient spectrum under favorable conditions. Environmental Regulations In the ordinary course of our business, like that of other companies engaged in similar businesses, we use metals, solvents and similar materials that are stored on-site. The waste created by use of these materials is transported off-site on a regular basis by an unaffiliated waste hauler and is processed by an unaffiliated contractor or vendor. We have made a concerted effort to reduce or eliminate the use of mercury and other hazardous materials in our products. We believe we are in compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of, or exposure to, toxic or other hazardous substances. Our Waseca facility has been certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard. Two Environmental Protection Agency reports issued in 1992 and 1997 identified several solid waste management units and areas of concern at our Oconee manufacturing facility. In addition, trichloroethylene (TCE) soil and groundwater contamination exists at the Oconee facility from a TCE storage tank that was removed in 1994. Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger) and various related parties, from whom we purchased our Electricity Metering operations, entered into a consent agreement with the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control regarding certain related environmental remedial activities. Under the terms of the Electricity Metering acquisition, Schlumberger is retaining all liability for these matters. The European Union (EU) has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of certain types of electrical equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for the individual member states of the EU to enact the directive in their respective countries was August 13, 2004 (such legislation, together with the directive is referred to as the WEEE Legislation). Producers participating in the market were financially responsible for implementing these responsibilities under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. Implementation in certain of the member states has been delayed into 2007. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan. China has passed similar legislation, which will take effect March 1, 2007. California has drafted electronic recycling laws similar to the WEEE legislation, but such legislation has not as yet been enacted. The liability for such environmental costs is accrued when considered probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We have determined the liability for our responsibilities under the WEEE Legislation to be immaterial to our operations 9 Table of Contents and financial position at December 31, 2006 and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the WEEE Legislation and similar legislation in other jurisdictions as individual countries issue their implementation guidance. The EU has also enacted the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive, which went into effect on July 1, 2006. Of the numerous hazardous substances defined in this directive, our only products known to be affected at this time are low volume handhelds, which are being updated to comply with the RoHS directive. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of RoHS legislation and similar legislation in other jurisdictions as individual countries issue their implementation guidance. Incorporation We were incorporated in the state of Washington in 1977. 10 Table of Contents MANAGEMENT Executive Officers of the Registrant Set forth below are the names, ages and titles of the executive officers of Itron as of February 22, 2007. Name Age Position LeRoy D. Nosbaum 60 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board Steven M. Helmbrecht 44 Sr. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer John W. Holleran 52 Sr. Vice President and General Counsel Philip C. Mezey 47 Sr. Vice President, Software Solutions Malcolm Unsworth 57 Sr. Vice President, Hardware Solutions Jared P. Serff 39 Vice President, Competitive Resources LeRoy Nosbaum is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Since joining Itron in 1996, Mr. Nosbaum has held positions as Chief Operating Officer and Vice President with responsibilities over manufacturing, product development, operations and marketing. Before joining Itron, Mr. Nosbaum was with Metricom Inc., a supplier of wireless data communications networking technology. Prior to joining Metricom, Mr. Nosbaum was with Schlumberger from 1969 to 1989 in various roles, including General Manager of Schlumberger’s Integrated Metering Systems Division. Steve Helmbrecht was named Sr. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in January 2005. Mr. Helmbrecht joined Itron in 2002 as Vice President and General Manager, International Market. From 2000 to 2002, Mr. Helmbrecht was Chief Financial Officer of LineSoft Corporation (LineSoft). Prior to joining LineSoft, Mr. Helmbrecht spent seven years with SS&C Technologies, Inc., a software company focused on portfolio management and accounting systems for institutional investors. John Holleran is Sr. Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Holleran joined Itron in January 2007. Prior to joining Itron, Mr. Holleran spent over 25 years with Boise Cascade Corporation and then Boise Cascade, LLC serving most recently as Executive Vice President, Administration and Chief Legal Officer. Philip Mezey is Sr. Vice President, Software Solutions. Mr. Mezey joined Itron in March 2003 as Managing Director of Software Development for Itron’s Energy Management Solutions Group upon Itron’s acquisition of Silicon Energy Corp. (Silicon). Mr. Mezey joined Silicon in 2000 as Vice President, Software Development. Prior to joining Silicon, Mr. Mezey was a founding member of Indus, a leading provider of integrated asset and customer management software and was with Indus for 12 years with various responsibilities for product development and services for utility solutions. Malcolm Unsworth is Sr. Vice President, Hardware Solutions. Mr. Unsworth joined Itron in July 2004 as part of our Electricity Metering acquisition. Mr. Unsworth spent 25 years with Schlumberger, including 11 associated with the electricity meter business where he served as President of Schlumberger’s electricity metering business. Mr. Unsworth also served as Vice President and General Manager of Schlumberger’s North America Operations in charge of water, electricity and gas products. Jared Serff is Vice President, Competitive Resources. Mr. Serff joined Itron in July 2004, as part of our Electricity Metering acquisition. Mr. Serff spent six years with Schlumberger, including four associated with the Schlumberger electricity metering business. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We are dependent on the utility industry, which has experienced volatility in capital spending. We derive the majority of our revenues from sales of products and services to the utility industry. Purchases of our products may be deferred as a result of many factors including mergers and acquisitions, regulatory decisions, weather conditions, rising interest rates, utility specific financial situations and general economic downturns. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, variability in operating results, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of these factors. Utility industry sales cycles can be lengthy and unpredictable. Sales cycles with customers in the utility industry, both domestic and foreign, are generally long and unpredictable due to customers’ budgeting, purchasing and regulatory processes that can take up to several years to complete. Our utility customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish evaluation committees, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost/benefit justifications and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying the normal budget approval process within a utility. The U.S. Energy Policy Act of 2005 requires electric utilities to consider offering their customers time-based rates and directs these utilities and state utility commissions to study and evaluate methods for implementing demand response and improving power generation. These requirements could change the process of evaluating and approving technology purchases, which could extend or delay sales. Our quarterly results may fluctuate substantially. We have experienced variability of quarterly results, including losses, and believe our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate as a result of many factors, including costs related to acquisitions, in-process research and development (IPR&D), intangible amortization expenses, stock-based compensation, legal activity, unexpected warranty liabilities, restructuring charges, size and timing of significant customer orders, FCC or other governmental actions, the gain or loss of significant customers, timing and levels of new product developments, shifts in product or sales channel mix, increased competition and pricing pressure and general economic conditions affecting enterprise spending for the utility industry. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from a limited number of customers. Historically, our revenues have been concentrated with a limited number of customers, which change over time. The ten largest customers accounted for 40%, 26% and 30% of revenues for the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. One customer, Progress Energy, accounted for 16% of total Company revenues in 2006. No single customer represented more than 10% of total Company revenues in 2005 and 2004. From time to time, we are dependent on large, multi-year contracts that are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by our customers due to many factors, such as extreme, unexpected weather conditions or possible acts of terrorism. Cancellation or postponement of one or more of these significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, if a large customer contract is not replaced upon its expiration with a new large contract, our business could be adversely affected. Our acquisitions of and investments in third parties carry risks and may affect earnings due to charges associated with the acquisition. We have acquired eight companies since December 31, 2001 and have recorded acquisition investments of approximately $22 million in 2006, $256 million in 2004 and $71 million in 2003. We expect to complete additional acquisitions and investments in the future, both foreign and domestic. There are no assurances, however, we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates or negotiate appropriate acquisition terms. In order to finance future acquisitions, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings, and there are no assurances that we would be able to do so on acceptable terms. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks such as the diversion of senior management’s attention, unsuccessful integration of the acquired entity’s personnel, operations, technologies and products, lack of market acceptance of new services and technologies, difficulties in operating businesses in foreign legal jurisdictions, changes in the 12 Table of Contents legal and regulatory environment or a shift in industry dynamics that negatively impacts the forecasted demand for the new products. Impairment of an investment or goodwill and intangible assets may result if these risks materialize. There can be no assurances that an acquired business will perform as expected, accomplish our strategic objective or generate significant revenues, profits or cash flows. During prior years, we have incurred impairments and write-offs of minority interest investments. Acquisitions and investments in third parties may involve the assumption of obligations, significant write-offs or other charges associated with the acquisition, such as acquired IPR&D. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we expensed $6.4 million in IPR&D expense associated with our Electricity Metering acquisition. We depend on our ability to develop new products. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance and sustain our existing products, including addressing technological advances, changing customer requirements, international market acceptance and other factors in the markets in which we sell our products. This product development will require continued investment in order to maintain our market position. We have made, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in technology development. However, we may experience unforeseen problems in the development or performance of our technologies or products. In addition, we may not meet our product development schedules. Finally, we may not achieve market acceptance of our new products and solutions. We are facing increasing competition. We face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in each of the markets we serve. Some of our present and potential future competitors have, or may have, substantially greater financial, marketing, technical or manufacturing resources, and in some cases, greater name recognition and experience than we have. Some competitors may enter markets we serve and sell products at low prices in order to obtain market share. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Some competitors have made, and others may make, strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that enhance their ability to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. In connection with our Electricity Metering acquisition and as an accommodation to concerns raised by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) regarding competition, we completed an agreement with Hunt Technologies, LLC, another AMR vendor, to license some of our electric meter module technology and certain other technology. Also to accommodate the FTC, we assigned to Neptune Technology Group certain provisions of a 1995 license between Itron and Schlumberger to make devices capable of receiving and reading transmissions from R-300 and electric AMR meters modules. The licenses are fully paid and the licensed patents expired in April 2006. We can not be certain that these agreements will not materially affect our future sales growth at some point. Other companies may also produce products that are equal or superior to our products, which could reduce our market share, reduce our overall sales and require us to invest additional funds in new technology development. We may also have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. If we can not compete successfully against current or future competitors, this will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are affected by availability and regulation of radio spectrum. A significant number of our products use radio spectrum and in the United States are subject to regulation by the FCC. Licenses for radio frequencies must be obtained and periodically renewed. Licenses granted to us or our customers may not be renewed on acceptable terms, if at all. The FCC may adopt changes to the rules for our licensed and unlicensed frequency bands that are incompatible with our business. In the past, the FCC has adopted changes to the requirements for equipment using radio spectrum, and it is possible that the FCC or Congress will adopt additional changes. We have committed, and will continue to commit, significant resources to the development of products that use particular radio frequencies. Action by the FCC could require modifications to our products. The inability to 13 Table of Contents modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing such modifications and the cost of such modifications all could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our radio-based products currently employ both licensed and unlicensed radio frequencies. There must be sufficient radio spectrum allocated by the FCC for our intended uses. As to the licensed frequencies, there is some risk that there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain our planned operations. The unlicensed frequencies are available for a wide variety of uses and may not be entitled to protection from interference by other users who operate in accordance with FCC rules. The unlicensed frequencies are also often the subject of proposals to the FCC requesting a change in the rules under which such frequencies may be used, including a pending notice of proposed rulemaking (FCC WT Docket No. 06-49 dated March 6, 2006). If the unlicensed frequencies become unacceptably crowded, restrictive or subject to changed rules governing their use, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are also subject to regulatory requirements in foreign markets that vary by country. In those jurisdictions, licensees are generally required to operate a radio transmitter and such licenses may be for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. In some jurisdictions, the rules permit certain low power devices to operate on an unlicensed basis. Most of our AMR modules and AMR-equipped electronic residential electricity meters are devices that transmit information back to handheld, mobile or fixed network AMR reading devices in unlicensed bands pursuant to rules regulating such use. To the extent we wish to introduce products designed for use in the United States or another country into a new market, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. Further, in some countries, limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude us from selling our products in those countries. We may face liability associated with the use of products for which patent ownership or other intellectual property rights are claimed. We may be subject to claims or inquiries regarding alleged unauthorized use of a third party’s intellectual property. An adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license technology or other intellectual property rights from others, require us to comply with injunctions to cease marketing or using certain products or brands, or require us to redesign, re-engineer, or rebrand certain products or packaging, any of which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to seek licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to acquire these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the cost of responding to an intellectual property infringement claim, in terms of legal fees, expenses and the diversion of management resources, whether or not the claim is valid, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer. We generally indemnify our customers with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we can not obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. While we believe that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property have significant value, it is uncertain that this intellectual property, or any intellectual property acquired or developed by us in the future, will provide meaningful competitive advantages. There can be no assurance that our patents or pending applications will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors or that rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful proprietary protection. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To combat infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to commence litigation, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding a court may 14 Table of Contents decide that a patent or other intellectual property right of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology or other intellectual property right at issue on the grounds that it is non-infringing or the legal requirements for an injunction have not been met. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we can not provide assurance that we will be able to, or have the resources to, prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We may face product-failure exposure that exceeds our recorded liability. We provide product warranties for varying lengths of time and establish allowances in anticipation of warranty expenses. In addition, we record contingent liabilities for additional product-failure related costs. However, these warranty and related product-failure allowances may be inadequate due to undetected product defects, unanticipated component failures, as well as changes in various estimates for material, labor and other costs we may incur to replace projected product failures. Therefore, we may incur additional warranty and related expenses in the future with respect to new or established products. As we commence the phased implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system, unexpected problems and delays could occur and could cause disruption to the management of our business and significantly increase costs. On January 1, 2007, we began the phased implementation process of moving from two enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to a single global system. This phased process includes transferring data from select modules and commencing use of the new system, which will result in the use of three separate ERP systems during the transition period of approximately two years. System conversions are expensive and time consuming undertakings that impact all areas of the Company. While a successful implementation will provide many benefits to us, an unsuccessful or delayed implementation will cost us significant time and resources, as well as expense. A delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, our new or enhanced systems could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain and production facilities, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and records and to report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. In addition, due to the systemic internal control features within ERP systems, we may experience difficulties that could affect our internal control over financial reporting, which could create a significant deficiency or material weakness in our overall internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources and materially and adversely impact our ability to manage our business and our results of operations. Our key manufacturing facilities are concentrated. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of electricity meters, which we manufacture in our Oconee and Brazil facilities, and from the sale of standalone AMR modules, which we manufacture in our Waseca facility. In the event of a significant interruption in production at any of our manufacturing facilities, considerable time and effort could be required to establish alternative production lines, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. A number of key personnel are critical to the success of our business. Our success depends in large part on the efforts of our highly qualified technical and management personnel in all disciplines. The loss of one or more of these employees and the inability to attract and retain qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on certain key vendors. Certain of our products, subassemblies and system components are procured from limited sources. Our reliance on such limited sources involves certain risks, including the possibility of shortages and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality and costs. Any adverse change in the supply of, or price for, these components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, 15 Table of Contents we depend on a small number of contract manufacturing vendors for a large portion of our low-volume manufacturing business and all of our repair services for our domestic handheld meter reading units. If any of these vendors should become unable to perform their responsibilities, our operations could be materially disrupted. We are subject to international business uncertainties. We conduct operations outside the United States. International sales and operations may be subject to risks such as the imposition of government controls, political instability, terrorist activities, restrictions on the import or export of critical technology, currency exchange rate fluctuations, adverse tax burdens, availability of qualified third-party financing, generally longer collection periods, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, potential insolvency of international dealers, burdens of complying with different permitting standards and a wide variety of foreign laws and obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may impact our ability to compete in international markets. International expansion and market acceptance depend on our ability to modify our technology to take into account such factors as the applicable regulatory and business environment, labor costs and other economic conditions. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our products or technology to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulatory compliance. We are subject to various governmental regulations including those related to occupational safety and health, labor and wage practices and regulations regarding the performance of certain engineering services. Failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our production processes, cessation of operations or other actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in environmental regulations, violations of the regulations or future environmental liabilities could cause us to incur significant costs and adversely affect our operations. Our business and our facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances governing, among other things, the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, disposal, remediation of, or exposure to toxic or other hazardous substances and certain waste products. Many of these environmental laws and regulations subject current or previous owners or operators of land to liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials. In addition, these laws and regulations typically impose liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials and regardless of whether the actions that led to the presence were conducted in compliance with the law. In the ordinary course of our business, we use metals, solvents and similar materials, which are stored on-site. The waste created by the use of these materials is transported off-site on a regular basis by unaffiliated waste haulers. Many environmental laws and regulations (most notably the federal “Superfund” law and its state counterparts) require generators of waste to take remedial actions at, or in relation to, the off-site disposal location even if the disposal was conducted in compliance with the law. The requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. Failure to comply with current or future environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our production processes, cessation of operations or other actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that a claim, investigation or liability will not arise with respect to these activities, or that the cost of complying with governmental regulations in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, of the properties we own or lease, we may in the future be responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at these sites. With respect to our Oconee facility, certain environmental remedial activities are required pursuant to a consent agreement between Schlumberger (and various related parties), from whom we purchased our Electricity Metering operations in July 2004, and the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (SCDHEC). Prior remedial activities also were undertaken at this location 16 Table of Contents under the guidance of the United States Environmental Protection Agency. The consent agreement with the SCDHEC requires Schlumberger to investigate and remediate groundwater and related soil and surface water contamination and releases of any hazardous waste or hazardous constituents that present an actual or potential threat to human health and the environment. Under the terms of our Electricity Metering acquisition, Schlumberger agreed to complete all remedial obligations associated with the consent agreement, and agreed to indemnify us for all costs incurred as a result of any releases and generation or transportation of hazardous materials prior to the acquisition. Although we expect Schlumberger to comply with the terms of the consent agreement and the acquisition, there is a risk that such remediation will interfere with our future use of the Oconee property, or if Schlumberger did not comply, the remediation responsibility would transfer to us. In addition, in connection with the Oconee operations, we have been named a “potentially responsible party” for the Thermal Kern Superfund site. We believe that our liability for this site should be indemnified by Schlumberger; however, as of this date, Schlumberger has not agreed to assume or accept such liability, and we may be required to incur costs relating to this cleanup as a result. We also could face costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. The European Union has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of certain types of electrical equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for the individual member states of the EU to enact the directive in their respective countries was August 13, 2004 (such legislation, together with the directive is referred to as the WEEE Legislation). Producers participating in the market became financially responsible for implementing their responsibilities under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. Implementation in certain EU member states has been delayed into 2007. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan. China has passed similar legislation, which will take effect March 1, 2007. California has drafted electronic recycling laws similar to the WEEE legislation, but such legislation has not as yet been enacted. Our potential liability resulting from the WEEE and similar legislations could become substantial. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures related to our existing senior subordinated and convertible senior subordinated notes limit our ability and the ability of most of our subsidiaries to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facility (credit facility) and our senior subordinated notes (7.75% senior subordinated notes due 2012 and 2.5% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2026), place restrictions on our ability and the ability of most of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur more debt; • pay dividends and make distributions; • make certain investments; • redeem or repurchase capital stock; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale lease-back transactions; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer or sell assets. Our credit facility also contains other customary covenants, including requiring us to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. Our ability to borrow under our credit facility will depend on the satisfaction of these covenants. Events beyond our control can affect our ability to meet those covenants. Our failure to comply with obligations under the indenture or the credit facility may result in declaration of an event of default. An event of default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of such indebtedness. In addition, indebtedness under other instruments (such as our notes) that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions also may be accelerated and become due and payable. We can not be certain we will be able to remedy any such defaults. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we can not be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to borrow sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. In addition, in the case of an event of default under our secured indebtedness such as our credit facility, the lenders may be permitted to foreclose on our assets securing that indebtedness. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to service our indebtedness is dependent on our ability to generate cash, which is influenced by many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on or refinance our indebtedness, fund planned capital expenditures and continue research and development will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We can not provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 