ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORSWe are dependent on the utility industry, which has experienced volatility in capital spending.We derive the majority of our revenues from sales of products and services to utilities. Purchases of our products may be deferred as a result of many factors, including economic downturns, slowdowns in new residential and commercial construction, customers’ access to capital upon acceptable terms, the timing and availability of government subsidies or other incentives, utility specific financial circumstances, mergers and acquisitions, regulatory decisions, weather conditions, and fluctuating interest rates. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, variability in operating results on an annual and a quarterly basis as a result of these factors.Utility industry sales cycles can be lengthy and unpredictable.The utility industry is subject to substantial government regulation. Regulations have often influenced the frequency of meter replacements. Sales cycles for standalone meter products have typically been based on annual or bi-annual bid-based agreements. Utilities place purchase orders against these agreements as their inventories decline, which can create fluctuations in our sales volumes.Sales cycles for advanced and smart metering systems are generally long and unpredictable due to several factors, including budgeting, purchasing, and regulatory approval processes that can take several years to complete. Our utility customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish evaluation processes, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost/benefit justifications, and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying the normal budget approval process. Today, governments around the world are implementing new laws and regulations to promote increased energy efficiency, slow or reverse growth in the consumption of scarce resources, reduce carbon dioxide emissions, and protect the environment. Many of the legislative and regulatory initiatives encourage utilities to develop a smart grid infrastructure, and some of these initiatives provide for government subsidies, grants, or other incentives to utilities and other participants in their industry to promote transition to smart grid technologies.Section 1252 of the U.S. Energy Policy Act of 2005 requires electric utilities to consider offering their customers time-based rates. The Act also directs these utilities and state utility commissions to study and evaluate methods for implementing demand response, to shift consumption away from peak hours, and to improve power generation.The European Union has issued the EU Energy Package, which includes directives and regulations intended to strengthen consumer rights and protection in the EU energy market. The EU’s 20-20-20 goals include a 20% increase in energy efficiency, a 20% reduction of carbon dioxide emissions compared with 1990 levels, and producing 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020. The package requires EU Member States to ensure the implementation of smart metering systems and outlines deployment by 2022, with 80% of electric consumers equipped with smart metering systems by 2020.While we believe these initiatives will provide opportunities for sales of our products, the pace at which these markets will grow is unknown due to the timing of legislation, regulatory approvals related to the deployment of new technology, capital budgets of utilities, and purchasing decisions by our customers. If government regulations regarding the smart grid and smart metering are delayed, revised to permit lower or different investment levels in metering infrastructure, or terminated altogether, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, cash flow, and financial condition.A significant portion of our revenue is generated with a limited number of customers.Historically, our revenues have been concentrated with a limited number of customers, which change over time. Our largest single customer represented 8% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. We are often a party to large, multi-year contracts that are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by our customers due to many factors, such as extreme, unexpected weather conditions that cause our customers to redeploy resources, convenience, regulatory issues, or acts of terrorism. Cancellation or postponement of one or more of these significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial and operating results. In addition, if a large customer contract is not replaced upon its expiration with new business of similar magnitude, our financial and operating results would be adversely affected.As we enter into agreements related to the deployment of smart metering systems and technology, the value of certain contracts can be substantially larger than contracts we have had with our customers in the past. These deployments last several years and can exceed the length of prior deployment agreements. The terms and conditions of these smart metering system agreements 6Table of Contentsrelated to testing, contractual liabilities, warranties, performance, and indemnities can be substantially different than the terms and conditions associated with our previous contracts.Our quarterly results may fluctuate substantially due to several additional factors.We have experienced variability in quarterly results, including losses, and believe our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate as a result of many factors, including those risks and events included throughout this section. Additional factors that may cause the price of our common stock to decline include: •a higher proportion of products sold with fewer features and functionality, resulting in lower revenues and gross margins;•a shift in sales channel mix, which could impact the revenue received and commissions paid;•a decrease in sales volumes, which could result in lower gross margins as driven by lower absorption of manufacturing costs•a change in accounting standards or practices that may impact us to a greater degree than other companies due to our product mix, which would impact revenue recognition, or our borrowing structure;•a change in existing taxation rules or practices due to our specific operating structure that may not be comparable to other companies; and•a shortfall in sales without a proportional decrease in expenses.We may face product-failure exposure.Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, materials, deployment and/or use. If any of our products contain a defect, compatibility or interoperability issue or other error, we may have to devote significant time and resources to find and correct the issue. We provide product warranties for varying lengths of time and establish allowances in anticipation of warranty expenses. In addition, we record contingent liabilities for additional product-failure related costs. These warranty and related product-failure allowances may be inadequate due to product defects, unanticipated component failures, as well as higher than anticipated material, labor, and other costs we may incur to replace projected product failures. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive; damage our reputation and relationships with utilities, meter and communication vendors, and other third-party vendors; result in the loss of business to competitors; or result in litigation against us. We may incur additional warranty and related expenses in the future with respect to new or established products, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial position.Our customer contracts may contain provisions that could cause us to incur penalties, be liable for damages, and/or incur unanticipated expenses with respect to the functionality, deployment, operation, and availability of our products and services. In addition to the risk of unanticipated warranty or recall expenses, our customer contracts may contain provisions that could cause us to incur penalties, be liable for damages, including liquidated damages, or incur other expenses, if we experience difficulties with respect to the functionality, deployment, operation, and availability of our products and services. In the event of late deliveries, late or improper installations or operations, failure to meet product or performance specifications or other product defects, or interruptions or delays in our managed service offerings, our customer contracts may expose us to penalties, liquidated damages, and other liabilities. In the event we were to incur contractual penalties, such as liquidated damages or other related costs that exceed our expectations, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our ability to develop new competitive products.Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance and sustain our existing products, keep pace with technological advances and changing customer requirements, gain international market acceptance, and manage other factors in the markets in which we sell our products. Product development will require continued investment in order to maintain our competitive position, and the periods in which we incur significant product development costs may drive variability in our quarterly results. We may not have the necessary capital, or access to capital at acceptable terms, to make these investments. We have made, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in technology development. However, we may experience unforeseen problems in the development or performance of our technologies or products. In addition, we may not meet our product development schedules. New products often require certifications or regulatory approvals before the products can be used and we cannot be certain that our new products will be approved in a timely manner. Finally, we may not achieve market acceptance of our new products and services.7Table of ContentsWe are affected by the availability and regulation of radio spectrum and interference with the radio spectrum that we use.A significant number of our products use radio spectrum, which are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the United States. The FCC may adopt changes to the rules for our licensed and unlicensed frequency bands that are incompatible with our business. In the past, the FCC has adopted changes to the requirements for equipment using radio spectrum, and it is possible that the FCC or the U.S. Congress will adopt additional changes.Although radio licenses are generally required for radio stations, Part 15 of the FCC’s rules permits certain low-power radio devices (Part 15 devices) to operate on an unlicensed basis. Part 15 devices are designed for use on frequencies used by others. These other users may include licensed users, which have priority over Part 15 users. Part 15 devices cannot cause harmful interference to licensed users and must be designed to accept interference from licensed radio devices. In the United States, our advanced and smart metering systems are typically Part 15 devices that transmit information to (and receive information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network systems pursuant to these rules.The FCC has initiated a rulemaking proceeding in which it is considering adopting “spectrum etiquette” requirements for unlicensed Part 15 devices operating in the 902-928 MHz band, which many of our advanced and smart metering systems utilize. The outcome of the proceeding may require us to make material changes to our equipment.The FCC has also adopted service rules governing the use of the 1427-1432 MHz band. We use this band with various devices in our network solutions. Among other things, the rules reserve parts of the band for general telemetry, including utility telemetry, and provide that nonexclusive licenses will be issued in accordance with Part 90 rules and the recommendations of frequency coordinators. Telemetry licensees must comply with power limits and out-of-band emission requirements that are designed to avoid interference with other users of the band. The FCC issues licenses on a nonexclusive basis and it is possible that the demand for spectrum will exceed supply.We depend upon sufficient radio spectrum to be allocated by the FCC for our intended uses. As to the licensed frequencies, there is some risk that there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain our planned operations. The unlicensed frequencies are available for a wide variety of uses and may not be entitled to protection from interference by other users who operate in accordance with FCC rules. The unlicensed frequencies are also often the subject of proposals to the FCC requesting a change in the rules under which such frequencies may be used. If the unlicensed frequencies become crowded to unacceptable levels, restrictive, or subject to changed rules governing their use, our business could be materially adversely affected.We have committed, and will continue to commit, significant resources to the development of products that use particular radio frequencies. Action by the FCC could require modifications to our products. The inability to modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing such modifications, and the cost of such modifications all could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations.Outside of the United States, certain of our products require the use of RF and are subject to regulations in those jurisdictions where we have deployed such equipment. In some jurisdictions, radio station licensees are generally required to operate a radio transmitter and such licenses may be granted for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. In other jurisdictions, the rules permit certain low power devices to operate on an unlicensed basis. Our advanced and smart metering systems typically transmit to (and receive information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network reading devices in unlicensed bands pursuant to rules regulating such use. Generally, we use the unlicensed Industrial, Scientific, and Medical (ISM) bands with the various reading devices in our solutions. In Europe, we generally use the 433 MHz and 868 MHz bands. In the rest of the world, we primarily use the 433 MHz and 2.4000-2.4835 GHz bands, as well as other local unlicensed bands. To the extent we introduce new products designed for use in the United States or another country into a new market, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. In some countries, limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude us from selling our products in those countries. In addition, new consumer products may create interference with the performance of our products, which could lead to claims against us.We may face adverse publicity, consumer or political opposition, or liability associated with our products.The safety and security of the power grid, the accuracy and protection of the data collected by meters and transmitted via the smart grid, concerns about the safety and perceived health risks of using radio frequency communications, and privacy concerns of monitoring home appliance energy usage have been the focus of recent adverse publicity. Negative publicity and consumer opposition may cause utilities or their regulators to delay or modify planned smart grid initiatives. Smart grid projects may be, or may be perceived as, unsuccessful. 8Table of ContentsWe may be subject to claims that there are adverse health effects from the radio frequencies utilized in connection with our products. If these claims prevail, our customers could suspend implementation or purchase substitute products, which could cause a loss of sales.We are facing increasing competition.We face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in each of the markets we serve. Some of our present and potential future competitors have, or may have, substantially greater financial, marketing, technical, or manufacturing resources and, in some cases, have greater name recognition, customer relationships, and experience. Some competitors may enter markets we serve and sell products at lower prices in order to gain or grow market share. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products and services than we can. Some competitors have made, and others may make, strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that enhance their ability to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Other companies may also drive technological innovation and develop products that are equal in quality and performance or superior to our products, which could put pressure on our market position, reduce our overall sales, and require us to invest additional funds in new technology development. In addition, there is a risk that low-cost providers will enter, or form alliances or cooperative relationships with our competitors, thereby contributing to future price erosion. Some of our products and services may become commoditized and we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. Should we fail to compete successfully with current or future competitors, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.We are subject to regulatory compliance.We are subject to various governmental regulations in all of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our production processes, cessation of operations, or other actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Changes in environmental regulations, violations of such regulations, or future environmental liabilities could cause us to incur significant costs and could adversely affect our operations.Our business and our facilities are subject to numerous laws, regulations, and ordinances governing, among other things, the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, disposal, remediation of, and exposure to toxic or other hazardous substances, and certain waste products. Many of these environmental laws and regulations subject current or previous owners or operators of land to liability for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous materials. In addition, these laws and regulations typically impose liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials and regardless of whether the actions that led to the presence were conducted in compliance with the law. In the ordinary course of our business, we use metals, solvents, and similar materials, which are stored on-site. The waste created by the use of these materials is transported off-site on a regular basis by unaffiliated waste haulers. Many environmental laws and regulations require generators of waste to take remedial actions at, or in relation to, the off-site disposal location even if the disposal was conducted in compliance with the law. The requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, and could become more stringent in the future. Failure to comply with current or future environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our production processes, cessation of operations, or other actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance that a claim, investigation, or liability will not arise with respect to these activities, or that the cost of complying with governmental regulations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on us.New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may force us to incur additional expenses, may result in damage to our business reputation, and may adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.In August 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and derivative metals (referred to as “conflict minerals,” regardless of their actual country of origin) in their products. Some of these metals are commonly used in electronic equipment and devices, including our products. These new requirements will require companies to investigate, disclose and report whether or not such metals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries and will require due diligence efforts in fiscal 2013, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes 9Table of Contentsto products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. Our international sales and operations are subject to complex laws relating to foreign corrupt practices and anti-bribery laws, among many others, and a violation of, or change in, these laws could adversely affect our operations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States requires United States companies to comply with an extensive legal framework to prevent bribery of foreign officials. The laws are complex and require that we closely monitor local practices of our overseas offices. The United States Department of Justice has recently heightened enforcement of these laws. In addition, other countries continue to implement similar laws that may have extra-territorial effect. In the United Kingdom, where we have operations, the U.K. Bribery Act imposes significant oversight obligations on us and could impact our operations outside of the United Kingdom. The costs for complying with these and similar laws may be significant and could require significant management time and focus. Any violation of these or similar laws, intentional or unintentional, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Disruption and turmoil in global credit and financial markets, which may be exacerbated by the inability of certain countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations, and the possible negative implications of such events for the global economy, may negatively impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.The recent downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the possibility that some European Union (EU) member states will default on their debt obligations have contributed to significant uncertainty about the stability of global credit and financial markets. The credit and economic conditions within some EU countries including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain, have contributed to the instability in some global credit and financial markets. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it is possible that such events may have a negative impact on the global economy and our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are subject to international business uncertainties, obstacles to the repatriation of earnings, and foreign currency fluctuations.A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from operations conducted outside the United States. International sales and operations may be subjected to risks such as the imposition of government controls, government expropriation of facilities, lack of a well-established system of laws and enforcement of those laws, access to a legal system free of undue influence or corruption, political instability, terrorist activities, restrictions on the import or export of critical technology, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and adverse tax burdens. Lack of availability of qualified third-party financing, generally longer receivable collection periods than those commonly practiced in the United States, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs, labor disruptions, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, difficulties in imposing and enforcing operational and financial controls at international locations, potential insolvency of international distributors, preference for local vendors, burdens of complying with different permitting standards and a wide variety of foreign laws, and obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash all present additional risk to our international operations. Fluctuations in the value of international currencies may impact our operating results due to the translation to the U.S. dollar as well as our ability to compete in international markets. International expansion and market acceptance depend on our ability to modify our technology to take into account such factors as the applicable regulatory and business environment, labor costs, and other economic conditions. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our products or technologies in the same manner as the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We depend on certain key vendors and components.Certain of our products, subassemblies, and system components are procured from limited sources. Our reliance on such limited sources involves certain risks, including the possibility of shortages and reduced control over delivery schedules, quality, costs, and our vendors’ access to capital upon acceptable terms. Any adverse change in the supply, or price, of these components could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we depend on a small number of contract manufacturing vendors for a large portion of our low-volume manufacturing business and all of our repair services for our domestic handheld meter reading units. Should any of these vendors become unable to perform up to their responsibilities, our operations could be materially disrupted.10Table of ContentsBusiness interruptions could adversely affect our business.Our worldwide operations could be subject to hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics, or other natural or man-made disasters or business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our key manufacturing facilities are concentrated and in the event of a significant interruption in production at any of our manufacturing facilities, considerable expense, time, and effort could be required to establish alternative production lines to meet contractual obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Asset impairment could result in significant changes that would adversely impact our future operating results.We have significant intangible assets, long-lived assets, goodwill, and deferred tax assets that are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in various factors or conditions.We assess impairment of amortizable intangible and long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment of such assets include the following: •underperformance relative to projected future operating results;•changes in the manner or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business;•negative industry or economic trends;•decline in our stock price for a sustained period or decline in our market capitalization below net book value; and•changes in our organization or management reporting structure, which could result in additional reporting units, requiring greater aggregation or disaggregation in our analysis by reporting unit and potentially alternative methods/assumptions of estimating fair values.We assess the potential impairment of goodwill each year as of October 1. We also assess the potential impairment of goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Adverse changes in economic conditions or our operations could affect the assumptions we use to calculate the fair value, which in turn could result in an impairment charge in future periods that would impact our results of operations and financial position in that period. The realization of our deferred tax assets is supported in part by projections of future taxable income. We record valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the extent we believe it is more likely than not that a portion of such assets will not be realized. In making such determinations, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and our ability to carry back losses to prior years. We are required to make assumptions and judgments about potential outcomes that lie outside management’s control. Our most sensitive and critical factors are the projection, source, and character of future taxable income. Realization is not assured, and the amount of deferred tax assets considered realizable could be reduced in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward periods are reduced or current tax planning strategies are not implemented.We may face losses associated with alleged unauthorized use of third party intellectual property.We may be subject to claims or inquiries regarding alleged unauthorized use of a third party’s intellectual property. An adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation or negotiation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license technology or other intellectual property rights from others, require us to comply with injunctions to cease marketing or the use of certain products or brands, or require us to redesign, re-engineer, or rebrand certain products or packaging, any of which could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are required to seek licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to acquire these licenses at acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the cost of responding to an intellectual property infringement claim, in terms of legal fees, expenses, and the diversion of management resources, whether or not the claim is valid, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.If our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer. We generally indemnify our customers with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products.11Table of ContentsWe may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property.While we believe that our patents and other intellectual property have significant value, it is uncertain that this intellectual property or any intellectual property acquired or developed by us in the future will provide meaningful competitive advantages. There can be no assurance that our patents or pending applications will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors or that rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful proprietary protection. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To combat infringement or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, we may need to commence litigation, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding a court may decide that a patent or other intellectual property right of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology or other intellectual property right at issue on the grounds that it is non-infringing or the legal requirements for an injunction have not been met. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries that do not protect such rights in the same manner as in the United States.We are subject to a variety of litigation that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.From time to time, we are involved in litigation that arises from our business. Litigation may, for example, relate to alleged infringements of intellectual property rights of others. Non-practicing entities may also make infringement claims in order to reach a settlement with us. In addition, these entities may bring claims against our customers, which, in some instances, could result in an indemnification of the customer. Litigation may also relate to product failure or product liability claims, contractual disputes, employment matters, or securities litigation. Litigation can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. We may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. While we currently maintain insurance coverage, such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims.A number of key personnel are critical to the success of our business.Our success depends in large part on the efforts of our highly qualified technical and management personnel and highly skilled individuals in all disciplines. The loss of one or more of these employees and the inability to attract and retain qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business.We may not realize the expected benefits from strategic alliances.We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic alliances. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in shared growth. However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must both compete and collaborate with the same company from one market to the next. Should our strategic partnerships fail to perform, we could experience delays in product development or experience other operational difficulties.Our acquisitions of and investments in third parties have risks.We may complete additional acquisitions or make investments in the future, both within and outside of the United States. In order to finance future acquisitions, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings, and there are no assurances that such financing would be available at acceptable terms. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks such as the diversion of senior management’s attention; unsuccessful integration of the acquired entity’s personnel, operations, technologies, and products; incurrence of significant expenses to meet an acquiree's customer contractual commitments; lack of market acceptance of new services and technologies; or difficulties in operating businesses in international legal jurisdictions. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources and materially and adversely impact our ability to manage our business. In addition, acquisitions and investments in third parties may involve the assumption of obligations, significant write-offs, or other charges associated with the acquisition. Impairment of an investment, goodwill, or an intangible asset may result if these risks were to materialize. For investments in entities that are not wholly owned by Itron, such as joint ventures, a loss of control as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) could result in a significant change in accounting treatment and a change in the carrying value of the entity. There can be no assurances that an acquired business will perform as expected, accomplish our strategic objectives, or generate significant revenues, profits, or cash flows. 12Table of ContentsWe rely on information technology systems.Our industry requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructures, which may be subject to disruptions arising from events that are beyond our control. We are dependent on information technology systems, including, but not limited to, networks, applications, and outsourced services. We continually enhance and implement new systems and processes throughout our global operations. We offer managed services and software utilizing several data center facilities located worldwide. Any damage to, or failure of, these systems could result in interruptions in the services we provide to our utility customers. As we continue to add capacity to our existing and future data centers, we may move or transfer data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any delayed or unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our services to our utility customers. We also sell vending and pre-payment systems with security features that, if compromised, may lead to claims against us.We are completing a phased upgrade of our primary enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to allow for greater depth and breadth of functionality worldwide. System conversions are expensive and time consuming undertakings that impact all areas of the Company. While successful implementations of each phase will provide many benefits to us, an unsuccessful or delayed implementation of any particular phase may cost us significant time and resources, as well as expense. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems due to computer viruses, hacking, acts of terrorism, and other causes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations by harming our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain and production facilities, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and records, and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. In addition, due to the systemic internal control features within ERP systems, we may experience difficulties that could affect our internal control over financial reporting.Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability.We are subject to income tax in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves may be established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve positions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. We regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant judgment.Our credit facility limits our ability and the ability of many of our subsidiaries to take certain actions.Our credit facility places restrictions on our ability, and the ability of many of our subsidiaries to, among other things:• incur more debt; • pay dividends, make distributions, and repurchase capital stock;• make certain investments; • create liens;• enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale lease-back transactions;• merge or consolidate; • transfer or sell assets.Our credit facility contains other customary covenants, including the requirement to meet specified financial ratios. Our ability to borrow under our credit facility will depend on the satisfaction of these covenants. Events beyond our control can affect our ability to meet those covenants. Our failure to comply with obligations under our borrowing arrangements may result in declaration of an event of default. An event of default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of required payments against such indebtedness. We cannot be certain we will be able to remedy any such defaults. If our required payments are accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay the indebtedness or that we will have the ability to raise sufficient capital to replace the indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. In addition, in the case of an event of default under our secured indebtedness such as our credit facility, the lenders may be permitted to foreclose on our assets securing that indebtedness.Our credit facility is sensitive to interest rate fluctuations that could impact our financial position and results of operations.13Table of ContentsOur ability to service our indebtedness is dependent on our ability to generate cash, which is influenced by many factors beyond our control.Our ability to make payments on or refinance our indebtedness, fund planned capital expenditures, and continue research and development will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is dependent on the degree to which we succeed in executing our business plans, which is influenced, in part, by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, counterparty, and other risks that are beyond our control. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.We are exposed to counterparty default risks with our financial institutions and insurance providers.The financial strength of some depository institutions has diminished and this trend may continue. If one or more of the depository institutions in which we maintain significant cash balances were to fail, our ability to access these funds might be temporarily or permanently limited, and we could face material liquidity problems and financial losses.The lenders of our credit facility consist of several participating financial institutions. Our revolving line of credit allows us to provide letters of credit in support of our obligations for customer contracts and provides additional liquidity. If our lenders are not able to honor their line of credit commitments due to the loss of a participating financial institution or other circumstance, we would need to seek alternative financing, which may not be under acceptable terms, and therefore could adversely impact our ability to successfully bid on future sales contracts and adversely impact our liquidity and ability to fund some of our internal initiatives or future acquisitions. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have devoted significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that our auditors attest to the design and operating effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting. Our compliance with the annual internal control report requirement for each fiscal year will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting, data systems, and controls across our operating subsidiaries. Furthermore, an important part of our growth strategy has been, and will likely continue to be, the acquisition of complementary businesses, and we expect these systems and controls to become increasingly complex to the extent that we integrate acquisitions and our business grows. Likewise, the complexity of our transactions, systems, and controls may become more difficult to manage. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement, and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially for acquisition targets that may not have been required to be in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act at the date of acquisition. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, or difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause it to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital.14Table of ContentsITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.