Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from what we projected. There may be additional risks about which we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business, financial position and results of operations. The rates we charge our customers are subject to regulation. If we are unable to obtain government approval of our requests for rate increases, or if approved rate increases are untimely or inadequate to recover and earn a return on our capital investments, to recover expenses, or to take into account changes in water usage, our profitability may suffer. The rates we charge our customers are subject to approval by the public utility commissions or similar regulatory bodies in the states in which we operate. We file rate increase requests, from time to time, to recover our investments in utility plant and expenses. Our ability to maintain and meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the recovery of and return on our capital investments and expenses through the rates we charge our customers. Once a rate increase petition is filed with a public utility commission, the ensuing administrative and hearing process may be lengthy and costly, and the cost to the Company may not always be fully recoverable. The timing of our rate increase requests are therefore partially dependent upon the estimated cost of the administrative process in relation to the investments and expenses that we hope to recover through the rate increase to the extent approved. There may be long-term declines in water usage per customer as a result of an increase in conservation awareness and the structural impact of an increased use of more efficient plumbing fixtures and appliances. These long-term shifts are normally taken into account by the public utility commissions in setting rates, whereas significant short-term changes in water usage may not be fully reflected in the rates we charge. We can provide no assurances that any future rate increase request will be approved by the appropriate state public utility commission; and, if approved, we cannot guarantee that these rate increases will be granted in a timely or sufficient manner to cover the investments, expenses, and return for which we initially sought the rate increase. In some regulatory jurisdictions, we may seek authorization to bill our utility customers in accordance with a rate filing that is pending before the respective regulatory commission. Furthermore, some regulatory commissions authorize the use of expense deferrals and amortization in order to provide for an impact on our operating income by an amount that approximates the requested amount in a rate request. The additional revenue billed and collected prior to the final ruling is subject to refund based on the outcome of the ruling. The revenue recognized and the expenses deferred by us reflect an estimate as to the final outcome of the ruling. If the request is denied completely or in part, we could be required to refund some or all of the revenue billed to date, and write-off some or all of the deferred expenses. Our business requires significant capital expenditures that are dependent on our ability to secure appropriate funding. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may limit our access to capital. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, or if the cost of borrowing increases, it may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is capital intensive. In addition to the capital required to fund our growth through acquisition strategy, on an annual basis, we spend significant sums for additions to or replacement of property, plant and equipment. We obtain funds for our capital expenditures from operations, contributions and advances by developers and others, equity issuances and debt issuances. Our ability to maintain and meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. Recent economic conditions and disruptions caused substantial volatility in capital markets, and increased the cost and reduced the availability of credit from financing sources, which may continue or worsen in the future. If in the future, our credit facilities are not renewed or 14 Table of Contents our short-term borrowings are called for repayment, we would have to seek alternative financing sources, although there can be no assurance that these alternative financing sources would be available on terms acceptable to us. In the event we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we may need to reduce our capital expenditures and our ability to pursue acquisitions that we may rely on for future growth could be impaired. The reduction in capital expenditures may result in reduced potential earnings growth, affect our ability to meet environmental laws and regulations, and may limit our ability to improve or expand our utility systems to the level we believe appropriate. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain sufficient capital in the future on reasonable terms and conditions for expansion, construction and maintenance. In addition, delays in completing major capital projects could delay the recovery of the capital expenditures associated with such projects through rates. If the cost of borrowing increases, we might not be able to recover increases in our cost of capital through rates. The inability to recover higher borrowing costs through rates, or the regulatory lag associated with the time that it takes to begin recovery, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to comply with debt covenants under our credit facilities could result in prepayment obligations. We are obligated to comply with debt covenants under some of our loan and debt agreements. Failure to comply with covenants under our credit facilities could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay or finance these borrowings before their due date, could limit future borrowings, result in cross default issues and increase borrowing costs. General economic conditions may affect our financial condition and results of operations. A general economic downturn such as the one the U.S. economy has experienced recently may lead to a number of impacts on our business that may affect our financial condition and results of operations. Such impacts may include: a reduction in discretionary and recreational water use by our residential water customers, particularly during the summer months when such discretionary usage is normally at its highest; a decline in usage by industrial and commercial customers as a result of decreased business activity; an increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay or delays in paying their utility bills, or an increase in customer bankruptcies, which may lead to higher bad debt expense and reduced cash flow; a lower natural customer growth rate due to a decline in new housing starts; and a decline in the number of active customers due to housing vacancies or abandonments. General economic turmoil may also lead to an investment market downturn, such as the one the U.S. economy has recently experienced, which results in our pension plans’ asset market values suffering a decline and significant volatility. As a result of a decline in our pension plans’ asset market values, our required cash contributions to these plans and pension expense may increase in subsequent years. Federal and state environmental laws and regulations impose substantial compliance requirements on our operations. Our operating costs could be significantly increased in order to comply with new or stricter regulatory standards imposed by federal and state environmental agencies. Our water and wastewater services are governed by various federal and state environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and similar state laws, and federal and state regulations issued under these laws by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental regulatory agencies. These laws and regulations establish, among other things, criteria and standards for drinking water and for discharges into the waters of the U.S. and states. Pursuant to these laws, we are required to obtain various environmental permits from environmental regulatory agencies for our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be at all times in total compliance with these laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change frequently. These laws, and the enforcement thereof, have tended to become more stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and our permits, it is possible that new or stricter standards could be imposed that will require additional capital expenditures or raise our operating costs. Although these expenditures and costs may be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that the various state public utility commissions or similar regulatory bodies that govern our business would approve rate increases to enable us to recover such expenditures and costs. In summary, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with, or discharging liability under, current and future environmental and health and safety laws will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Our business is impacted by weather conditions and is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could adversely affect demand for our water service and our revenues. Demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional requirements for water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand will vary with temperature, rainfall levels and rainfall frequency. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, if there is more rainfall than normal, or rainfall is more frequent than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. Drought conditions and government imposed water use restrictions may impact our ability to serve our current and future customers, and may impact our customers’ use of our water, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on an adequate water supply to meet the present and future demands of our customers. Drought conditions could interfere with our sources of water supply and could adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our existing and future customers. An interruption in our water supply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, governmental restrictions on water usage during drought conditions may result in a decreased demand for our water, even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers during these drought conditions, which may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water and wastewater systems. Any future acquisitions we decide to undertake may involve risks. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition and integration of water and wastewater systems in order to broaden our current, and move into new, service areas. We will not be able to acquire other businesses if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities or reach mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. It is our intent, when practical, to integrate any businesses we acquire with our existing operations. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions by us could result in: • dilutive issuances of our equity securities; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • failure to have effective internal control over financial reporting; • recording goodwill and other intangible assets for which we may never realize its full value and may result in an asset impairment that may negatively affect our results of operations; • fluctuations in quarterly results; • other acquisition-related expenses; and • exposure to unknown or unexpected risks and liabilities. Some or all of these items could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to finance our business and comply with regulatory requirements. The businesses we acquire in the future may not achieve sales and profitability that would justify our investment, and any difficulties we encounter in the integration process, including in the integration of processes necessary for internal control and financial reporting, could interfere with our operations, reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our internal controls. In addition, as consolidation becomes more prevalent in the water and wastewater industries and competition for acquisitions increases, the prices for suitable acquisition candidates may increase to unacceptable levels and limit our ability to grow through acquisitions. 16 Table of Contents Our water and wastewater systems may be subject to condemnations or other methods of taking by governmental entities. In the states where our subsidiaries operate, it is possible that portions of our subsidiaries’ operations could be acquired by municipal governments by one or more of the following methods: • eminent domain; • the right of purchase given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original franchise was granted; and • the right of purchase given or reserved under the law of the state in which the subsidiary was incorporated or from which it received its permit given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original franchise was granted. The price to be paid upon such an acquisition by the municipal government is usually determined in accordance with applicable law governing the taking of lands and other property under eminent domain. In other instances, the price may be negotiated, fixed by appraisers selected by the parties or computed in accordance with a formula prescribed in the law of the state or in the particular franchise or charter. We believe that our operating subsidiaries will be entitled to receive fair market value for any assets that are condemned. However, there is no assurance that the fair market value received for assets condemned will be in excess of book value. In a limited number of instances in our southern states where there are municipally-owned water or wastewater systems near our operating divisions, the municipally-owned system may either have water distribution or wastewater collection mains that are located adjacent to the our division’s mains or may construct new mains that parallel our mains. In these circumstances, on occasion the municipally-owned system may attempt to take over the customers who are connected to our mains, resulting in our mains becoming surplus or underutilized without compensation. Contamination to our water supply may result in disruption in our services and litigation which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our water supplies are subject to contamination, including contamination from naturally-occurring compounds, chemicals in groundwater systems, pollution resulting from man-made sources, such as man-made organic chemicals, and possible terrorist attacks. In the event that a water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute, where feasible, the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. If we are unable to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost-effective manner, there may be an adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. The costs we incur to decontaminate a water source or an underground water system could be significant and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and may not be recoverable in rates. We could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances in our water supplies or other environmental damage. Our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover the costs of these claims. In addition to the potential pollution of our water supply as described above, in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the ensuing threats to the nation’s health and security, we have taken steps to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. We have also tightened our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business. We have and will continue to bear increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies. These costs may be significant. Despite these increased security measures, we may not be in a position to control the outcome of terrorist events should they occur. 17 Table of Contents Wastewater operations may entail significant risks. Wastewater collection and treatment and septage pumping and sludge hauling involve various unique risks. If collection or treatment systems fail or do not operate properly, or if there is a spill, untreated or partially treated wastewater could discharge onto property or into nearby streams and rivers, causing various damages and injuries, including environmental damage. Liabilities resulting from such damages and injuries could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Dams and reservoirs present unique risks. Several of our water systems include impounding dams and reservoirs of various sizes. Although we believe our dams are structurally sound and well-maintained, the failure of a dam could result in significant downstream property damage or injuries for which we may be liable. We periodically inspect our dams and purchase liability insurance for such risks, but depending on the nature of the downstream damage and cause of the failure, our limits of coverage may not be sufficient. A dam failure could also result in damage to or disruption of our water treatment and pumping facilities that are often located downstream from our dams and reservoirs. Significant damage to these facilities could affect our ability to provide water to our customers and, consequently, our results of operations until the facilities and a sufficient raw water impoundment can be restored. The estimated costs to maintain our dams are included in our capital budget projections and, although such costs to date have been recoverable in rates, there can be no assurance that rate increases will be granted in a timely or sufficient manner to recover such costs in the future, if at all. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters could adversely affect our operating results. Approximately 30% of our workforce are unionized under 13 labor contracts (or contracts under negotiation) with labor unions, which expire over several years. We believe our labor relations are good, but in light of rising costs for healthcare and pensions, contract negotiations in the future may be difficult. We are subject to a risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters as we negotiate with the unions to address these issues, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that issues with our labor forces will be resolved favorably to us in the future or that we will not experience work stoppages. Significant or prolonged disruptions in the supply of important goods or services from third parties could affect our business and results of operations. We are dependent on a continuing flow of important goods and services from suppliers for our water and wastewater businesses. A disruption or prolonged delays in obtaining, important supplies or services, such as purchased water, chemicals, or electricity, could adversely affect our water or wastewater services and our ability to operate in compliance with all regulatory requirements, which could have a significant effect on our results of operations. In certain circumstances, we rely on third parties to provide certain important services (such as certain customer bill print and mail activities or utility service operations in some of our divisions) and a disruption in these services could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are increasingly dependent on the continuous and reliable operation of our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems in connection with the operation of our business, especially with respect to customer service and billing, accounting and, in some cases, the monitoring and operation of our treatment, storage and pumping facilities. A loss of these systems or major problems with the operation of these systems could affect our operations and have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We depend significantly on the services of the members of our management team, and the departure of any of those persons could cause our operating results to suffer. Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. The loss of the services of any member of our management team or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could harm our operating results. Climate change laws and regulations may be adopted that could require compliance with greenhouse gas emissions standards and other climate change initiatives. Additional capital expenditures could be required and our operating costs could be increased in order to comply with new regulatory standards imposed by federal and state environmental agencies. Climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators, and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Possible new climate change laws and regulations, if enacted, may require us to monitor and/or change our utility operations. It is possible that new standards could be imposed that will require additional capital expenditures or raise our operating costs. Because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Although these expenditures and costs may be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that the various state public utility commissions or similar regulatory bodies that govern our business would approve rate increases to enable us to recover such expenditures and costs. We cannot assure you that our costs of complying with new standards or laws will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 