Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from what we projected. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business or financial position. OUR BUSINESS REQUIRES SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND THE RATES WE CHARGE OUR CUSTOMERS ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN SUFFICIENT CAPITAL ON REASONABLE TERMS OR OBTAIN GOVERNMENT APPROVAL OF OUR REQUESTS FOR RATE INCREASES, OR IF APPROVED RATE INCREASES ARE UNTIMELY OR INADEQUATE TO COVER OUR CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND TO RECOVER EXPENSES, OUR PROFITABILITY MAY SUFFER. The water utility business is capital intensive. In addition to the capital required to fund our growth through acquisition strategy, on an annual basis, we spend significant sums for additions to or replacement of property, plant and equipment. Our ability to maintain and meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the availability of adequate capital and the recovery of our capital investments through the rates we charge our customers. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain sufficient capital in the future on reasonable terms and conditions for expansion, construction and maintenance. In the event we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, our expansion efforts could be curtailed, which may affect our growth and may affect our future results of operations. The rates we charge our customers are subject to approval by the public utility commissions or similar regulatory bodies in the states in which we operate. We file rate increase requests, from time to time, to recover our investments in utility plant and expenses. Once a rate increase petition is filed with a public utility commission, the ensuing administrative and hearing process may be lengthy and costly. The timing of our rate increase requests are therefore partially dependent upon the estimated cost of the administrative process in relation to the investments and expenses that we hope to recover through the rate increase to the extent approved. We can provide no assurances that any future rate increase request will be approved by the appropriate state public utility commission; and, if approved, we cannot guarantee that these rate increases will be granted in a timely or sufficient manner to cover the investments and expenses for which we initially sought the rate increase. OUR OPERATING COSTS COULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASED IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH NEW OR STRICTER REGULATORY STANDARDS IMPOSED BY FEDERAL AND STATE ENVIRONMENTAL AGENCIES. Our water and wastewater services are governed by various federal and state environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and similar state laws, and federal and state regulations issued under these laws by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental regulatory agencies. These laws and regulations establish, among other things, criteria and standards for drinking water and for discharges into the waters of the United States and states. Pursuant to these laws, we are required to obtain various environmental permits from environmental regulatory agencies for our operations. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in total compliance with these laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change frequently. These laws, and the enforcement thereof, have tended to become more stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with these laws and our permits, it is possible that new or stricter standards could be imposed that will raise our operating costs. Although these costs may be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that the various state public utility commissions or similar regulatory bodies that govern our business would approve rate increases to enable us to recover such costs. In summary, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with, or discharging liability under, current and future environmental and health and safety laws will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 14 OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO SEASONAL FLUCTUATIONS, WHICH COULD AFFECT DEMAND FOR OUR WATER SERVICE AND OUR REVENUES. Demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional requirements for water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand will vary with temperature and rainfall levels. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. DROUGHT CONDITIONS MAY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO SERVE OUR CURRENT AND FUTURE CUSTOMERS, AND MAY IMPACT OUR CUSTOMERS' USE OF OUR WATER, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We depend on an adequate water supply to meet the present and future demands of our customers. Drought conditions could interfere with our sources of water supply and could adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our existing and future customers. An interruption in our water supply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, governmental restrictions on water usage during drought conditions may result in a decreased demand for our water, even if our water reserves are sufficient to serve our customers during these drought conditions, which may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. AN IMPORTANT ELEMENT OF OUR GROWTH STRATEGY IS THE ACQUISITION OF WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS. ANY FUTURE ACQUISITIONS WE DECIDE TO UNDERTAKE MAY INVOLVE RISKS. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition and integration of water and wastewater systems in order to broaden our current, and move into new, service areas. We will not be able to acquire other businesses if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities or reach mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. It is our intent, when practical, to integrate any businesses we acquire with our existing operations. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management's time and resources. Future acquisitions by us could result in: o dilutive issuances of our equity securities; o incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; o failure to have effective internal control over financial reporting; o fluctuations in quarterly results; and o other acquisition-related expenses. Some or all of these items could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to finance our business and comply with regulatory requirements. The businesses we acquire in the future may not achieve sales and profitability that would justify our investment, and any difficulties we encounter in the integration process, including in the integration of controls necessary for internal control and financial reporting, could interfere with our operations, reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our internal controls. In addition, as consolidation becomes more prevalent in the water and wastewater industries, the prices for suitable acquisition candidates may increase to unacceptable levels and limit our ability to grow through acquisitions. 15 CONTAMINATION TO OUR WATER SUPPLY MAY RESULT IN DISRUPTION IN OUR SERVICES AND LITIGATION WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Our water supplies are subject to contamination, including contamination from the development of naturally-occurring compounds, chemicals in groundwater systems, pollution resulting from man-made sources, such as MtBE, and possible terrorist attacks. In the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. If we are unable to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost-effective manner, there may be an adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. The costs we incur to decontaminate a water source or an underground water system could be significant and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and may not be recoverable in rates. We could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances in our water supplies or other environmental damage. For example, private plaintiffs have the right to bring personal injury or other toxic tort claims arising from the presence of hazardous substances in our drinking water supplies. Our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover the costs of these claims. In addition to the potential pollution of our water supply as described above, in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the ensuing threats to the nation's health and security, we have taken steps to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. We have also tightened our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business. We have and will continue to bear increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies. These costs may be significant. Despite these tightened security measures, we may not be in a position to control the outcome of terrorist events should they occur. WASTEWATER OPERATIONS MAY ENTAIL SIGNIFICANT RISKS. Wastewater collection and treatment involve many risks associated with damage to the surrounding environment. If collection or treatment systems fail or do not operate properly, untreated or partially treated wastewater could discharge onto property or into nearby streams and rivers, causing property damage or injury to aquatic life, or even human life. Liabilities resulting from such damage could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. WORK STOPPAGES AND OTHER LABOR RELATIONS MATTERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Approximately 33% of our workforce, are unionized under ten labor contracts (or contracts under negotiation) with labor unions, which expire over several years. We believe our labor relations are good, but in light of rising costs for healthcare and pensions, contract negotiations in the future may be difficult. We are subject to a risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters as we negotiate with the unions to address these issues, which could affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that issues with our labor forces will be resolved favorably to us in the future or that we will not experience work stoppages. WE DEPEND SIGNIFICANTLY ON THE SERVICES OF THE MEMBERS OF OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM, AND THE DEPARTURE OF ANY OF THOSE PERSONS COULD CAUSE OUR OPERATING RESULTS TO SUFFER. Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. The loss of the services of any member of our management team or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could harm our operating results. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 