Risk Factors Risks Relating to Us We face competition from well-established telecommunications operators and may face competition from new entrants that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects The Philippine government has liberalized the Philippine telecommunications industry and opened the Philippine telecommunications market to new entrants. Including the PLDT Group, there are eight major local exchange carriers, 11 international gateway facility providers and seven cellular service providers in the country. Many new entrants into the Philippine telecommunications market have entered into strategic alliances with foreign telecommunications companies, which provide them access to technological and funding support as well as service innovations and marketing strategies. Consequently, we are facing increasing competition in major segments of the telecommunications industry, particularly data and other network services segments. There can be no assurance that the number of providers of telecommunication services will not further increase or that competition for telecommunications customers will not lead our cellular and fixed line subscribers to switch to other operators or lead us to increase our marketing expenditures or reduce our rates resulting in a reduction in our profitability. Competition in the cellular telecommunications industry in the Philippines is based primarily on factors such as network coverage, quality of service and price. Recently, competition has increased as operators sought to develop and maintain market share and to attract new subscribers. Our principal cellular competitors, Globe Telecom, Inc., or Globe, and Digital Telecommunications Philippines, Inc., or Digitel, have introduced aggressive marketing campaigns and promotions. In addition, the government may allocate additional frequencies and award additional cellular telecommunications licenses in the future which could lead to increased competition. As a result of the competitive environment, Smart has not increased its cellular rates since November 1998. Moreover, the level of competition requires Smart to continuously innovate its products and to conduct promotions, which may affect its cellular revenues and revenue growth. For example, in order to test the market demand for fixed rate or “bucket” plans for voice and text services and in response to similar types of promotions launched by its competitors, Smart launched promotions pursuant to which Smart and Talk ‘N Text prepaid subscribers had the option to avail themselves of unlimited on-network (Smart-to-Smart) voice calls or text messages at a fixed rate. There can be no assurance that incurring additional marketing expenses for these promotions and responding to rate pressures and the potential loss of customers will not have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The cellular telecommunications industry may not continue to grow The majority of our total revenues is currently derived from cellular services. As a result, we depend on the continued development and growth of the cellular telecommunications industry. The cellular penetration rate in the Philippines is estimated to have reached over 75%. The growth of the cellular communications market depends on many factors beyond our control, including the continued introduction of new and enhanced cellular devices, the price levels of cellular handsets, consumer preferences and amount of disposable income of existing and potential subscribers. Any economic, technological or other developments resulting in a reduction in demand for cellular services may harm our business. 11 Table of Contents Rapid changes in telecommunications technology may adversely affect the economics of our existing businesses and the value of our assets, increase our required capital expenditures and create new competition The telecommunications sector has been characterized recently by rapid technological changes. There can be no assurance that these developments will not result in competition from providers of new services or the need to make substantial capital expenditures to upgrade our facilities. Furthermore, the NTC has issued to Smart and our competitors licenses covering 3G cellular services, and we have incurred significant expenses in the roll out of these services. We are also continuing to upgrade to a next generation, all-IP network and rolling out a wireless broadband network in order to expand our capability to provide broadband services. These projects require and will continue to require over the next few years significant capital expenditures. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to such changes and to offer services that meet customer demands on a competitive and timely basis. We may be unable to obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or implement them in an appropriate or effective manner. Future development of new technologies, services or standards could require significant changes to our business model, could negatively impact our existing businesses and could necessitate new investments. In addition, new products and services may be expensive to develop and may result in increased competition. Such strategic initiatives and technological developments could require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that we would be able to adopt and successfully implement new technologies. In addition, there can be no assurance on how emerging and future technological changes will affect our operations or the competitiveness of our services. Our results of operations and our financial position could be materially and adversely affected if the Philippine peso significantly fluctuates against the U.S. dollar A substantial portion of our indebtedness, related interest expense and our capital expenditures and a portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies, but a significant portion of our revenues is denominated in Philippine pesos. As at December 31, 2008, 78% of our total consolidated indebtedness was foreign currency-denominated of which approximately 45% was unhedged. A depreciation of the Philippine peso against the U.S. dollar increases the amount of our U.S. dollar-denominated debt obligations and operating and interest expenses in peso terms. In the event that the Philippine peso depreciates against the U.S. dollar, we may be unable to generate enough funds through operations and other means to offset the resulting increase in our obligations in peso terms. Moreover, a depreciation of the Philippine peso against the U.S. dollar may result in our recognition of significant foreign exchange losses, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. For example, the Philippine peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar from Php41.411 as at December 31, 2007 to Php47.647 as at December 31, 2008, as a result of which, we recognized in 2008 foreign exchange losses in the amount of Php6,170 million, representing a change of Php14,160 million from a foreign exchange gain of Php7,990 million recognized in 2007. A depreciation of the Philippine peso could also cause us not to be in compliance with the financial covenants imposed by our lenders under certain loan agreements and other indebtedness. Further, fluctuations in the Philippine peso value and of interest rates impact the mark-to-market gains/losses of certain of our financial debt instruments which were designated as non-hedged items. On the other hand, approximately 34.5% of PLDT Group’s consolidated service revenues are either denominated in U.S. dollars or are linked to the U.S. dollar. In this respect, an appreciation of the weighted average exchange rate of the Philippine peso against the U.S. dollar decreases our revenues, and consequently, our cash flow from operations in Philippine peso terms. The Philippine peso has been subject to significant fluctuations in recent years. From 2003 to 2004, the Philippine peso depreciated from a high of Php49.336 on May 20, 2002 to a low of Php56.443 on October 14, 2004. While the peso appreciated in 2005, 2006 and 2007, it depreciated in 2008 to a low of Php49.984 and closed at Php47.647 as at December 31, 2008, and there can be no assurance that the peso will not further depreciate and be subjected to significant fluctuations going forward due to a range of factors, including: • political and economic developments affecting the Philippines; • global economic and financial trends; • the volatility of regional currencies, particularly the Japanese yen; • any interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve Bank of the United States; • higher demand for U.S. dollars by both banks and domestic businesses to service their maturing U.S. dollar obligations; and • foreign exchange traders including banks covering their short U.S. dollar positions. 12 Table of Contents Our results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by competition in, and the emergence of new services which may put additional pressure on, our traditional international and national long distance services The international long distance business has historically been one of our major sources of revenue. However, due to competition and the steep decline in international settlement rates that are paid to us by foreign telecommunications carriers for termination of international calls on our network, revenues generated from our international long distance business have declined in recent years. We anticipate that revenues from international long distance and international data services, including our services, will continue to decline in the future due primarily to: • increased competition from other domestic and international telecommunications providers; • advances in technology; • alternative providers offering internet telephony, also known as Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, and broadband capacity; and • unauthorized traffic termination and bypass routings by international simple resale operators. The continued increase in cellular penetration in the Philippines and the prevalence of SMS has negatively impacted our national long distance business in recent years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate new revenue streams that may fully offset the declines in our traditional fixed line long distance businesses or that these declines will not materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Net settlement payments between PLDT and other foreign telecommunications carriers for origination and termination of international call traffic between the Philippines and other countries have been our predominant source of foreign currency revenues. However, in U.S. dollar terms, these payments have been declining in recent years. A continued decline in our foreign currency revenues could increase our exposure to risks from possible future declines in the value of the Philippine peso against the U.S. dollar. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve adequate increases in our other revenues to make up for any adverse impact of a further decline in our net settlement payments. We may not be successful in our acquisitions of and investments in other companies and businesses, and may therefore be unable to fully implement our business strategy As part of our growth strategy, we may, from time to time, make acquisitions and investments in companies or businesses. The success of our acquisitions and investments depends on a number of factors, including: • our ability to identify suitable opportunities for investment or acquisition; • our ability to reach an acquisition or investment agreement on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all; • the extent to which we are able to exercise control over the acquired company; • the economic, business or other strategic objectives and goals of the acquired company compared to those of the PLDT Group; and • our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company or business with our existing businesses. Any of our contemplated acquisitions and investments may not be consummated due to reasons or factors beyond our control. Even if any contemplated acquisitions and investments are consummated, we may not be able to realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and investments. Moreover, if we are unsuccessful in our contemplated acquisitions and investments, we may not be able to implement fully our business strategy to maintain or grow certain of our businesses. 13 Table of Contents Our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants which require us to maintain certain financial tests and our indebtedness could impair our ability to fulfill our financial obligations, service our other debt and carry out new financings As at December 31, 2008, we had consolidated total indebtedness of Php73,911 million (US$1,551 million), and a consolidated ratio of debt to equity (total debt on a consolidated basis divided by total equity attributable to equity holders of PLDT) of 0.70x. Our existing debt instruments contain covenants which, among other things, require PLDT to maintain certain financial ratios calculated on the basis of PFRS on a consolidated and non-consolidated basis and limit our ability to incur indebtedness. For a description of some of these covenants, see Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing Activities — Debt Covenants.” Our indebtedness and the requirements and limitations imposed by our debt covenants could have important consequences. For example, they could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements. The principal factors that can negatively affect our ability to comply with the financial ratios and other financial tests under our debt instruments are depreciation of the Philippine peso relative to the U.S. dollar, poor operating performance of PLDT and our consolidated subsidiaries, impairment or similar charges in respect of investments or other long-lived assets that may be recognized by PLDT and its consolidated subsidiaries and increases in our interest expenses. Since as at December 31, 2008, approximately 78% of our total consolidated debts was denominated in foreign currencies, principally in U.S. dollars, many of these financial ratios and other tests are expected to be negatively affected by any weakening of the peso. We have maintained compliance with all of our financial ratios and covenants, as measured under PFRS, under our loan agreements and other debt instruments. However, if negative factors adversely affect our financial ratios, we may be unable to maintain compliance with these ratios and covenants or be unable to incur new debt. Inability to comply with the financial ratios and covenants or raise new financing could result in a declaration of default and acceleration of some or all of our indebtedness. The terms of some of our debt instruments have no minimum amount for cross-default. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. An inability to effect these measures successfully could result in a declaration of default and an acceleration of some or all of our indebtedness. Our subsidiaries could be limited in their ability to pay dividends to us due to internal cash requirements and their creditors having superior claims to their assets and cash flows, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition A growing portion of our total revenues and cash flow from operations is derived from our subsidiaries, particularly Smart. Smart and some of our other subsidiaries have significant internal cash requirements for debt service, capital expenditures and expenses and so may be financially unable to pay any dividends to PLDT. Although Smart has been making dividend payments to PLDT since December 2002, there can be no assurance that PLDT will continue to receive dividends or other distributions, or otherwise be able to derive liquidity from Smart or any other subsidiary or investee in the future. Creditors of our subsidiaries will have prior claims to our subsidiaries’ assets and cash flows. We and our creditors will effectively be subordinated to the existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, of our subsidiaries, except that we may be recognized as a creditor on loans we have made to subsidiaries. If we are recognized as a creditor of a subsidiary, our claim will still be subordinated to any indebtedness secured by assets of the subsidiary and any indebtedness of the subsidiary otherwise deemed senior to the indebtedness we hold. We may have difficulty meeting debt payment obligations if we do not continue to receive cash dividends from our subsidiaries and our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected as a result. 14 Table of Contents Our businesses require substantial capital investment which we may not be able to finance Our projects under development and the continued maintenance and improvement of our networks and services, including Smart’s projects, networks and services, require substantial ongoing capital investment. Our consolidated capital expenditures in 2008 and 2007 totaled Php25,203 million and Php24,824 million, respectively. Our 2009 budget for consolidated capital expenditures is approximately Php27,000 million, of which approximately Php10,000 million is budgeted to be spent by PLDT and approximately Php15,000 million is budgeted to be spent by Smart; the balance represents the budgeted capital spending of our other subsidiaries. PLDT’s capital spending is intended principally to finance the continued build-out and upgrade of its data and IP infrastructures and for its fixed line data services and the maintenance of its network. Smart’s capital spending is focused on expanding and upgrading its transmission network facilities to meet increased demand for cellular and broadband services. Future strategic initiatives could require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures. We may be required to finance a portion of our future capital expenditures from external financing sources, which have not yet been fully arranged. There can be no assurance that financing for new projects will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot complete our development programs and other capital projects, our growth, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses depend on the reliability of our network infrastructure which is subject to physical, technological and other risks We depend to a significant degree on an uninterrupted operation of our network to provide our services. We also depend on robust information technology systems to enable us to conduct our operations. The development and operation of telecommunications networks are subject to physical, technological and other risks, which may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers. These risks include: • physical damage; • power loss; • capacity limitation; • cable theft; • software defects; and • breaches of security by computer viruses, break-ins or otherwise. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to provide services to customers. While we are undertaking initiatives to prevent and/or mitigate the occurrence of said risks, including the preparation of a disaster recovery plan that aims to allow restoration of service at the soonest possible time from occurrence of an incident, there can be no assurance that these risks will not occur or that our initiatives will be effective should such risks occur. A significant number of PLDT’s shares are held by three shareholders which may not act in the interests of other shareholders or stakeholders in PLDT The First Pacific Group has beneficial ownership of approximately 26.37% in PLDT’s outstanding common stock as at February 28, 2009. This is the largest block of PLDT’s common stock that is directly or indirectly under common ownership. 15 Table of Contents Pursuant to publicly available filings made with the PSE, as at February 28, 2009, NTT Communications and NTT DoCoMo together beneficially owned approximately 21% of the outstanding shares of PLDT’s common stock. First Pacific and certain of its affiliates, or the FP Parties, NTT Communications, NTT DoCoMo and PLDT entered into a Cooperation Agreement, dated January 31, 2006, pursuant to which, among other things, certain rights of NTT Communications under the Stock Purchase and Strategic Investment Agreement dated September 28, 1999, or the Strategic Agreement, and the Shareholders Agreement dated March 24, 2000, or the Shareholders Agreement, were extended to NTT DoCoMo. See Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions” for further details regarding the shareholdings of NTT Communications and NTT DoCoMo in PLDT. As a result of the Cooperation Agreement, NTT Communications and NTT DoCoMo, in coordination with each other, have contractual veto rights over a number of major decisions and transactions that PLDT could make or enter into, including: • capital expenditures in excess of US$50 million; • any investments, if the aggregate amount of all investments for the previous 12 months is greater than US$25 million in the case of all investments to any existing investees and US$100 million in the case of all investments to any new or existing investees, determined on a rolling monthly basis; • any investments in a specific investee, if the cumulative value of all investments made by us in that investee is greater than US$10 million in the case of an existing investee and US$50 million in the case of a new investee; • issuance of common stock or stock that is convertible into common stock; • new business activities other than those we currently engage in; and • merger or consolidation. Moreover, as a result of the Shareholders Agreement, the Cooperation Agreement and their respective stockholdings, the FP Parties, NTT Communications and/or NTT DoCoMo are able to influence our actions and corporate governance, including: • elections of PLDT’s directors; and • approval of major corporate actions, which require the vote of common stockholders. Additionally, pursuant to amendments effected by the Cooperation Agreement to the Strategic Agreement and the Shareholders Agreement, upon NTT Communications and NTT DoCoMo and their respective subsidiaries owning in the aggregate 20% or more of PLDT’s shares of common stock and for as long as they continue to own in the aggregate at least 17.5% of PLDT’s shares of common stock then outstanding, NTT DoCoMo has additional rights under the Strategic Agreement and Shareholders Agreement, including that: • NTT DoCoMo is entitled to nominate one additional NTT DoCoMo nominee to the board of directors of each of PLDT and Smart; • PLDT must consult NTT DoCoMo no later than 30 days prior to the first submission to the board of PLDT or certain of its committees of any proposal of investment in an entity that would primarily engage in a business that would be in direct competition or substantially the same business opportunities, customer base, products or services with business carried on by NTT DoCoMo, or which NTT DoCoMo has announced publicly an intention to carry on; • PLDT must procure that Smart does not cease to carry on its business, dispose of all of its assets, issue common shares, merge or consolidate, or effect winding up or liquidation without PLDT first consulting with NTT DoCoMo no later than 30 days prior to the first submission to the board of PLDT or Smart, or certain of its committees; and • PLDT must first consult with NTT DoCoMo no later than 30 days prior to the first submission to the board of PLDT or certain of its committees for the approval of any transfer by any member of the PLDT Group of Smart common capital stock to any person who is not a member of the PLDT Group. The FP Parties and/or NTT Communications and/or NTT DoCoMo may exercise their respective influence over these decisions and transactions in a manner that could be contrary to the interests of other shareholders or stakeholders in PLDT. If a major shareholder sells its interest in PLDT, the transaction may result in an event of default under certain circumstances If First Pacific Group or NTT Communications sell all or a portion of their equity interest in PLDT, in certain circumstances, such sale may give rise to an obligation for PLDT to make an offer to purchase its outstanding debt under its US$250 million 11.375% notes due 2012. As at December 31, 2008, Php7,584 million in principal amount of PLDT’s indebtedness is directly subject to a redemption upon any change in the major shareholding of PLDT or to an offer to purchase requirement. In such event, if PLDT fails to complete an offer to purchase the affected debts, all of its debt could become immediately due and payable as a result of various cross-default and acceleration provisions. 16 Table of Contents The franchise of Smart may be revoked due to its failure to conduct a public offering of its shares In order to diversify the ownership base of public utilities, the Philippine Public Telecommunications Policy Act, Republic Act, or R.A., 7925, requires a telecommunications entity with regulated types of services to make a public offering through the stock exchanges representing at least 30% of its aggregate common shares within a period of five years from (a) the date the law became effective or (b) the entity’s first start of commercial operations, whichever date is later. As the timeframe has lapsed without Smart having conducted a public offering of its shares, the Philippine Congress may revoke the franchise of Smart for its failure to comply with the requirement under R.A. 7925 on the public offering of its shares. A quo warranto case may also be filed against Smart by the Office of the Solicitor General of the Philippines for the revocation of the franchise of Smart on the ground of violation of R.A. 7925. Smart maintains the position that it has not violated the provision in its franchise to make a public offering of its shares within a certain period, since it believes such provision is merely directory. Further, Smart believes that the policy underlying the requirement for telecommunications entities to conduct a public offering should be deemed to have been achieved when PLDT acquired a 100% equity interest in Smart in 2000, since PLDT was then and continues to be a publicly listed company. In September 2004, Senate Bill No. 1675 was filed seeking to declare that a telecommunication entity shall be deemed to have complied with the requirement of making a public offering of its shares if two-thirds of its outstanding voting stock are owned and controlled directly or indirectly, by a listed company. However, there can be no assurance that such bill will be enacted or that Philippine Congress will not revoke the franchise of Smart or the Office of Solicitor General of the Philippines will not initiate a quo warranto proceeding against Smart for the revocation of its franchise for failure to comply with the provision under R.A. 7925 on the public offering of shares. Our business is significantly affected by governmental laws and regulations, including regulations in respect of our franchises, rates and taxes We operate our business under franchises, each of which is subject to amendment, termination or repeal by the Philippine Congress. Additionally, PLDT operates pursuant to various provisional authorities and certificates of public convenience and necessity, or CPCNs, which were granted by the NTC and will expire between now and 2028. For a description of our licenses, see Item 4. “Information on the Company — Licenses and Regulation.” Some of PLDT’s CPCNs and provisional authorities have already expired. However, PLDT filed applications for extension of these CPCNs and provisional authorities prior to their respective expiration dates and is therefore entitled to continue to conduct its business under its existing CPCNs and provisional authorities pending the NTC’s decisions on these extensions. Because PLDT filed the applications for extension on a timely basis, we expect that these extensions will be granted. However, there can be no assurance that the NTC will grant these extensions. Smart also operates its cellular, international long distance, national long distance and global mobile personal communications via satellite services as well as international private leased circuits pursuant to CPCNs, which will expire upon the expiration of its franchise. Smart’s franchise is due to expire on March 27, 2017, 25 years after the date on which its current franchise was granted. The NTC also regulates the rates we are permitted to charge for services that have not yet been deregulated, such as local exchange services. There can be no assurance that the NTC will not impose additional obligations on us that could lead to the revocation of our licenses if not adhered to and/or reduction in our total revenues or profitability. In addition, the NTC could adopt changes to the regulations governing our interconnection with other telecommunications companies or the rates and terms upon which we provide services to our customers that could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. The PLDT Group is also subject to a number of national and local taxes. There can be no assurance that PLDT Group will not be subject to new and/or additional taxes and that PLDT Group would be able to impose additional charges or fees to compensate for the imposition of such taxes. 17 Table of Contents There are also various bills pending in the Philippine Congress which propose to impose a franchise tax on telecommunication companies and to tax telecommunications services, among them, the imposition of a tax on mobile phone companies on all text entries to text games; the imposition of a Php0.50 specific tax on each SMS to be borne by the cellular phone companies; imposition of a 10% ad valorem tax on all cellular phone calls using 3G; the prohibition on telecommunications companies from imposing fees and/or charges on text messages between subscribers of the same telecommunications company and providing for free text messages until the prepaid amount has been fully used up; and the imposition of an additional Php0.10 tax on text messaging charges. In addition, there is a pending bill which seeks to impose on telecommunications companies a 20% tax on the gross receipts from text messaging services for a period of five years, where the proceeds of such tax will be used to fund educational projects. See Item 4. “Information on the Company—Licenses and Regulations—Material effects of regulation on our business”. If any of these bills are enacted into law, such legislation would have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we would be able to impose additional charges or fees to compensate for the imposition of such taxes or charges, or for the loss of fees and/or charges. The NTC may implement proposed changes in existing regulations and introduce new regulations which may result in increased competition and may have negative implications for our revenues and profitability On June 16, 2000, the NTC issued Memorandum Circular No. 13-6-2000 proposing that cellular operators, including Smart and Piltel, be required, among other things: • to bill their subscribers for cellular calls on a six-second pulse basis instead of the current per minute basis; • not to bill calls directed to recorded voice messages; and • to extend the expiration date of prepaid cards from the current two months to two years. Along with the other Philippine cellular operators, Smart filed a complaint for the nullification of this memorandum circular before the regional trial court, or RTC, of Quezon City and sought for the issuance of a preliminary injunction while proceedings are ongoing. The RTC issued the preliminary injunction, which restrained the implementation of the memorandum circular. The complaint of the Philippine cellular operators is being heard by the RTC of Quezon City. In December 2005, the NTC issued a consultative document on the development of competition policy framework for the information communications sector. The consultative paper contains questions which cover the following key areas: • a review of market trends deemed to impinge on current and future state of competition in the sector; • an exploration of major policies that may change the balance of market power, hence the nature and degree of competition; • an assessment of the quality of current regulation, identifying major handicaps of the NTC; and • a discussion of the urgent tasks for the NTC to effectively govern a dynamic and complex industry. The NTC invited public comment from industry stakeholders and other interested parties in relation to the issues raised in the paper. On January 31, 2006, we submitted a comprehensive response to the consultative paper. On August 24, 2006, the NTC issued another consultative document specifically focusing on its proposal to impose asymmetric regulations on carriers with significant market power, or SMP, including a discussion on its proposed roadmap for implementing such SMP obligations. On October 23, 2006, we submitted our response to the second consultative paper to the NTC. In formulating both our responses, we took into account both industry interests and the broader context of our nation’s economic development, drawing on the experience in other countries. We believe that the basis for the need for regulatory reform is unclear and the envisioned SMP regime is inappropriate for the Philippines, as the market is highly competitive and well-functioning. In addition, the imposition of SMP and its attendant obligations would discourage capital investments in a sector on which the Philippine economy is highly dependent. We have therefore proposed that the NTC explore its full range of options available on a cost-benefit basis, taking into consideration the specific local context of the Philippine marketplace. 18 Table of Contents In 2008, in connection with the NTC’s efforts to enhance competition within the telecommunications industry in the Philippines, the NTC issued Memorandum Circulars on the following: (a) guidelines on the mandatory interconnection of backhaul networks to the cable landing station, which were issued and became effective on October 7, 2008; and (b) guidelines on the interconnection of local exchange carriers, or LECs, in local calling areas that eliminate interconnection access charges between LECs within a local calling area, which were issued and became effective on May 30, 2008. In addition, in 2008, the NTC proposed implementing guidelines on developing reference access offers, which are statements of the prices, terms and conditions under which a telecommunications carrier proposes to provide access to its network or facilities to another such carrier of value-added service provider. There can be no assurance that the NTC will not impose changes to the current regulatory framework which may lead to increased competition. Any such changes may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to install and maintain telecommunications facilities and equipment in a timely manner, we may not be able to maintain our current market share and the quality of our services, which may have negative implications for our revenue and profitability Our business requires the regular installation of new, and the maintenance of existing, telecommunications transmission and other facilities and equipment, which are being undertaken. The installation and maintenance of these facilities and equipment are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to: • shortages of equipment, materials and labor; • work stoppages and labor disputes; • interruptions resulting from inclement weather and other natural disasters; • unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems; and • unanticipated cost increases. Any of these factors could give rise to delays or cost overruns in the installation of new facilities or equipment or could prevent us from properly maintaining the equipment used in our networks, and hence could affect our ability to maintain existing services and roll out new services, etc., which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely impact investor confidence and the market price of our common shares and ADSs Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we are unable to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed. We are required to comply with various Philippine and U.S. laws and regulations on internal controls. For example, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we have been required to include a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by our management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must express an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting based on their audits. 19 Table of Contents Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including through a failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on the market prices of our common shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to the Philippines PLDT’s business may be affected by political or social or economic instability in the Philippines The Philippines is subject to political, social and economic volatility that, directly or indirectly, may have a material adverse impact on our ability to sustain our business and growth. For example, the Philippines have experienced various street protests and violent civil unrest, including coup d’etat attempts against the administration of President Arroyo. Furthermore, the Philippine economy has experienced periods of slow growth, high inflation and significant depreciation of the peso. The Philippine government is also facing a fiscal deficit that the government is aiming to eliminate in the near future by implementing a number of economic reforms. The fiscal deficit position of the Philippine government and the ongoing political uncertainty have resulted in increased concerns about the political and economic stability of the country. There can be no assurance that the political environment in the Philippines will be stable or that the current or any future government will adopt economic policies conducive to sustained economic growth or which do not impact adversely on the current regulatory environment for telecommunications or other companies. If foreign exchange controls were to be imposed, our ability to meet our foreign currency payment obligations could be adversely affected The Philippine government has, in the past, instituted restrictions on the conversion of the peso into foreign currency and the use of foreign exchange received by Philippine companies to pay foreign currency-denominated obligations. The Monetary Board of the BSP has statutory authority, with the approval of the President of the Philippines, during a foreign exchange crisis or in times of national emergency, to: • suspend temporarily or restrict sales of foreign exchange; • require licensing of foreign exchange transactions; or • require the delivery of foreign exchange to the BSP or its designee banks. There can be no assurance that foreign exchange controls will not be imposed in the future. If imposed, these restrictions could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain foreign currency to service our foreign currency obligations. The occurrence of natural catastrophes may materially disrupt our operations The Philippines has experienced a number of major natural catastrophes over the years including typhoons, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes that may materially disrupt and adversely affect our business operations. The earthquake that hit Taiwan on December 26, 2006 severed cable systems linking the Philippines to other Asian and American countries, causing major slowdown of voice and non-voice data traffic exchange. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage PLDT maintains for these risks will adequately compensate it for all damages and economic losses resulting from natural catastrophes. 20 Table of Contents 