Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information in this annual report, including the risks and uncertainties described below. If any of the following risks actually occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Us If we are not able to adapt to changes and disruptions in technology and by over-the-top, or OTT, services and address changing consumer demand on a timely basis, we may experience a decline in the demand for our services, be unable to implement our business strategy and experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The rapid change of technology and proliferation of OTT services have the potential to disrupt our business. Our major sources of revenue have always been short messaging service, or SMS, voice and international long distance business. However, due to the adoption of new technologies and the growing popularity of these new OTT services, our traditional revenue sources have continued to decline, and we cannot assure you that such trend will not continue with respect to some of our traditional services. 8 Table of Contents The continued high cellular penetration rate in the Philippines and the prevalence of SMS have negatively impacted our national long distance business in recent years. Moreover, net settlement payments between PLDT and other foreign telecommunications carriers for origination and termination of international call traffic between the Philippines and other countries, which have been our predominant source of foreign currency revenues, have been declining in recent years. The emergence of OTT services, such as social networking, instant messaging and internet telephone, also known as VoIP services, are competing with us in voice or data services and continue to affect our business model. We are also facing growing competition from providers offering services using alternative wireless technologies and IP-based networks, including efforts by the Philippine government to roll-out its free WiFi services to various municipalities in the country. Our capital costs could increase as we phase out outdated and unprofitable technologies and invest in new ones. We may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new services in the market. In addition, there could be legal or regulatory restraints on our introduction of new services. If our services fail to gain acceptance in the marketplace, or if costs associated with implementation and completion of the introduction of these services materially increase, our ability to retain and attract customers could be adversely affected. We can neither assure you that we would be able to adopt or successfully implement new technologies and services nor assure you that future technological changes will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Competition from other telecommunications services providers may further increase, which may reduce our market share and decrease our profit margin, and we cannot assure you that any potential change in the competitive landscape of the telecommunications industry in the Philippines would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Increasing competition from other existing telecommunications services providers, as well as competition from new competitors, could materially and adversely affect our business and prospect by, among other factors, forcing us to lower our tariffs, reducing or reversing the growth of our customer base and reducing usage of our services. Competition in the cellular telecommunications industry is particularly intense, with network coverage, quality of service, product offerings, and price dictating subscriber preference. Vital capacity expansion may continue to adversely increase our capital expenditures. Recently, operators have grown more aggressive in maintaining and growing market share, especially in light of a maturing market. Our principal cellular competitor, Globe Telecom, Inc., or Globe, has introduced aggressive marketing campaigns and promotions, such as unlimited voice and SMS offers. Furthermore, the possible entry of a new player, due to the liberalization of the Philippine telecommunications industry, may threaten our market share. Taking into consideration these risks, we cannot assure you that the number of providers of telecommunications services will not increase in the future or that competition for customers will not cause our cellular and fixed line subscribers to switch to other operators, or otherwise cause us to increase our marketing expenditures, potential loss of customers or reduce our rates, resulting in a reduction in our profitability. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on, among other things, network coverage, quality of service, price, our development of new and enhanced products and services, the reach and quality of our sales and distribution channels and our capital resources. It will also depend on how successfully we anticipate and respond to various factors affecting our industry, including new technologies and business models, changes in consumer preferences and demand for existing services, demographic trends and economic conditions. If we are not able to respond successfully to these competitive challenges, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The cellular telecommunications industry in the Philippines may not continue to grow. The majority of our total revenues are currently derived from the provision of cellular services to customers in the Philippines. As a result, we depend on the continued development and growth of this industry in the Philippines. The cellular penetration rate in the country, however, has already reached an estimated 118% as at December 31, 2015, and thus the industry may well be considered mature, although the existence of subscribers owning multiple SIM cards results in this penetration rate being inflated to a certain extent. Further growth of the market depends on many factors beyond our control, including the continued introduction of new and enhanced cellular devices, the price levels of cellular handsets, consumer tastes and preferences, and the amount of disposable income of existing and potential subscribers. Any economic, technological or other developments resulting in a reduction in demand for cellular services or otherwise causing the Philippine cellular telecommunications industry to stop growing or reducing the rate of its growth, could materially harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The licenses, franchises and regulatory approvals, upon which PLDT relies, may be subject to revocation or delay, which could result in the suspension of our services or abandonment of any planned expansions and could thereby have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Failure to comply with the foreign ownership restrictions Section 11, Article XII of the 1987 Philippine Constitution provides that no franchise, certificate, or any other form of authorization for the operation of a public utility shall be granted except to citizens of the Philippines or to corporations of associations organized under the laws of the Philippines, at least 60% of whose capital is owned by such citizens. We believe that as of the date of this report, PLDT is in compliance with the requirement of Section 11 Article XII of the 1987 Constitution. Exceeding the foreign ownership restrictions imposed under the Philippine Constitution may subject the Company to financial sanctions or the Philippine government commencing a quo warranto case in the name of the Republic of the Philippines against the Company to revoke the Company’s franchise that permits the Company to engage in telecommunications activities. See Item 8. “Financial Information – Legal Proceedings” and Note 27 – Provisions and Contingencies – In the Matter of the Wilson Gamboa Case and Jose M. Roy III Petition to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements in Item 18. “Financial Statements” for further discussion. 9 Table of Contents Failure to renew CPCNs We operate our business under franchises, each of which is subject to amendment, termination or repeal by the Philippine Congress, and to various provisional authorities and CPCNs, which have been granted by the NTC and will expire between now and 2028. Some of our CPCNs and provisional authorities have already expired. Although we have filed applications for extension of these CPCNs and provisional authorities, we cannot assure you that the NTC will grant the applications for renewal. See Item 4. “Information on the Company – Licenses and Regulations” for more information. Failure to comply with R.A. 7925 The Philippine Congress may revoke, or the Solicitor General of the Philippines may file a case against Smart and DMPI to revoke, the franchise of Smart and DMPI for their failure to comply with R.A. 7925, which requires making a public offering of at least 30% of the aggregate common shares of a telecommunications entity with regulated types of services. For more information on R.A. 7925, see Item 4. “Information on the Company – Material Effects of Regulation on our Business”. Failure to properly divest CURE If we fail to effect the divestment of Connectivity Unlimited Resource Enterprise, or CURE, in accordance with the terms of, or in a manner contemplated under the NTC’s approval of our acquisition of the Digitel Group, the NTC may revoke its approval of any relevant franchises, licenses or permits held by Smart, any of which could significantly disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. See Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Divestment of CURE to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements in Item 18. “Financial Statements” for further discussion. We cannot assure you that any of our franchises, permits or licenses will not be revoked and any such revocation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or prospects. Our business is significantly affected by governmental laws and regulations, including regulations in respect of rates and taxes and laws relating to anti-competitive practices and monopoly. The NTC regulates the rates we are permitted to charge for services that have not yet been deregulated, such as local exchange services. We cannot assure you that the NTC will not impose additional obligations on us that could lead to the revocation of our licenses if not adhered to and/or to the reduction in our total revenues or profitability. The NTC could adopt changes to the regulations or implement additional guidelines governing our interconnection with other telecommunications companies or the rates and terms upon which we provide services to our customers. The occurrence of any of these changes could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. The PLDT Group is also subject to a number of national and local taxes. We cannot assure you that the PLDT Group will not be subject to new, increased and/or additional taxes and that the PLDT Group would be able to impose or pass on additional charges or fees on its customers to compensate for the imposition of such taxes or charges, or for the loss of fees and/or charges. Moreover, we are subject to laws and regulations relating to anti-competitive practices and anti-monopoly. The Philippine Competition Act came into effect on August 8, 2015 and prohibits practices that restrict market competition through anti-competitive agreements and abuse of a dominant position. It also requires parties to provide notification and obtain clearance for certain mergers and acquisitions. The Philippine Competition Act prescribes administrative and criminal penalties for violations of these prohibitions. Finally, the Philippine Competition Act established the Philippines Competition Commission with responsibility for implementing and enforcing competition policy in the Philippines. While our business practices have not in the past been found to have violated any laws and regulations related to anti-competition and anti-monopoly, we cannot assure you that any new or existing governmental regulators will not, in the future, find our business practices to have an anti-competitive effect on the Philippines telecommunications industry, nor can we assure you that we will not be found to have violated the relevant laws and regulations relating to anti-competition and anti-monopoly in the future. Any future expansion in our services, particularly in our cellular services, could subject us to additional conditions in the granting of our provisional authorities by the NTC and to increased regulatory scrutiny, which could harm our reputation and business, and which could have a material adverse effect on our growth and prospects. In addition, the occurrence of any such event could impose substantial costs or cause interruptions or considerable delays in the provision, development or expansion of our services. For more information, see Item 4. “Information on the Company – Material Effects of Regulation on our Business.” Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data, or any failure to comply with such laws, could adversely affect our business. The regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection laws is unsettled. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to make effective modifications to our policies, or to comply with any privacy, data-retention or data-protection-related laws, regulations, orders or industry self-regulatory principles could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, a loss of user confidence, damage to the PLDT brands, and a loss of users or advertising partners, any of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. 10 Table of Contents In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data-retention and data-protection issues, including laws or regulations mandating disclosure to domestic or international law enforcement bodies, which could adversely impact our business, our brand or our reputation with users. The interpretation and application of privacy, data protection and data retention laws and regulations are often uncertain and in flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices, complicating long-range business planning decisions. If privacy, data protection or data retention laws are interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our current policies and practices we may be fined or ordered to change our business practices in a manner that adversely impacts our operating results. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices or operating platforms in a manner adverse to our business. Legislation and regulation of online payment systems could create unexpected costs, subject us to enforcement actions for compliance failures, or cause us to change our digital technology platforms or business models. Regulators have been increasing their focus on online and mobile payment services, and recent regulatory and other developments could reduce the convenience or utility of our payment services for users. Governmental regulation of certain aspects of mobile payments systems under which PLDT operates could result in obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the payment card systems that link to our mobile payments systems, the jurisdictions in which our payment services or apps may be used, and higher costs, such as fees charged by banks to process funds through our mobile payments systems. Such obligations and restrictions could be further increased as more jurisdictions regulate payment systems. Moreover, if this regulation is used to provide resources or preferential treatment or protection to selected payments and processing providers, it could displace us from, or prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. Limitations in the amount of frequency spectrum or facilities made available to us could negatively affect our ability to maintain and improve our service quality and level of customer satisfaction, could increase our costs and could reduce our competitiveness. The available radio frequency spectrum is one of the principal limitations on a mobile network’s capacity, and there are limitations in the spectrum and facilities available to us to provide our services. Our future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative video and data services and a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations. Improvements in our service depend on many factors, including continued access to and deployment of adequate spectrum. Our competitiveness may decline if we cannot obtain the necessary or optimal allocation of spectrum from the Philippine government. If the Philippine government does not fairly allocate spectrum to wireless providers in general or if we cannot acquire needed spectrum or deploy the services customers desire on a timely basis without burdensome conditions or at adequate cost while maintaining network quality levels, then our ability to attract and retain customers, and therefore maintain and improve our operating margins, could be materially adversely affected. We may not be successful in our acquisitions of, and investments in, other companies and businesses, and may therefore be unable to fully implement our business strategy. As growth slows or reverses in our traditional fixed line and cellular businesses, and as part of our strategy to grow other business segments, we make acquisitions and investments in companies or businesses to enter new businesses or defend our existing markets. The success of our acquisitions and investments depends on a number of factors, such as: • our ability to identify suitable opportunities for investment or acquisition; • our ability to reach an acquisition or investment agreement on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all; • the extent to which we are able to exercise control over the acquired company; • the economic, business or other strategic objectives and goals of the acquired company compared to those of the PLDT Group, as well as the ability to execute the identified strategies in order to generate fair returns on the investment; and • our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company or business with our existing businesses. Any of our contemplated acquisitions and investments may not be consummated due to reasons or factors beyond our control. Even if any contemplated acquisitions and investments are consummated, we may not be able to realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and investments and we cannot assure you that the consummation of such acquisitions and investments will not result in losses for a prolonged period of time. Moreover, if we are unsuccessful in our contemplated acquisitions and investments, we may not be able to fully implement our business strategy to maintain or grow certain of our businesses and our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to the fluctuations in the market values of our investments. Given the nature of our business and our foray into the digital business, we have made investments in various start-up companies. In 2014, we invested in Rocket Internet SE (formerly Rocket Internet AG), or Rocket, to drive the development of online and mobile payment solutions. However, due to the significant decline in fair value of our investment in Rocket as at December 31, 2015, we recognized an impairment of the investment in Rocket amounting to Php5,124 million. See Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Critical Accounting Policies” and Note 11 – Available-for-Sale Financial Investments – PLDT Online’s Investment in Rocket to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements in Item 18. “Financial Statements” for more information. Credit ratings and market values of this investment and similar investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, foreign exchange rates, or other factors. As a result, our investments could decline and result in a material impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to install and maintain telecommunications facilities and equipment in a timely manner, we may not be able to maintain our current market share and the quality of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business requires the regular installation of new, and the maintenance of existing, telecommunications transmission and other facilities and equipment, which are being undertaken. The installation and maintenance of these facilities and equipment are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, such as: • shortages of equipment, materials and labor; • work stoppages and labor disputes; • interruptions resulting from inclement weather and other natural disasters; • unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems; and • unanticipated cost increases. Any of these factors could give rise to delays or cost overruns in the installation of new facilities or equipment or could prevent us from properly maintaining the equipment used in our networks, and hence could affect our ability to maintain existing services and roll-out new services, for example, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Cyber attacks, theft, equipment failures, natural disasters, terrorist acts and territorial disputes may materially adversely affect our operations Cyber attacks, theft of telecommunication cables, major equipment failures or natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist acts or other breaches of network or IT security that affect our wireline and wireless networks, including telephone switching offices, microwave links, third-party-owned local and long-distance networks on which we rely, our cell sites or other equipment, our customer account support and information systems, or employee and business records could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In order to minimize our exposure to cyber security risks, we have deployed a multi-layered defense mechanism from the network to the host and up to the application level. However, we can neither assure you that any of such defenses will be effective against or neutralize the effects of any cyber incidents resulting from unintentional cyber security breaches or deliberate attacks on our network infrastructure or computer systems, nor assure you that our business will not be significantly disrupted in the event of such security breach or attack. If we fail to timely and effectively prevent the occurrence of any new or existing cyber security incidents, or fail to promptly rectify any such incidents, our business could be significantly disrupted, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the confidence of our stakeholders could be lost. The Philippines, China and several Southeast Asian nations have been engaged in a series of long-standing territorial disputes over certain islands in the West Philippine Sea, also known as the South China Sea. Should these territorial disputes continue or escalate further, the Philippines and its economy may be disrupted and our operations could be adversely affected as a result. In particular, further disputes between the Philippines and China may lead both countries to impose trade restrictions on the other’s imports. Any such impact from these disputes could adversely affect the Philippine economy, and materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and financial performance. Our businesses require substantial capital investment, which we may not be able to finance. Our projects under development and the continued maintenance and improvement of our networks and services, including Smart’s projects, networks, platforms and services, require substantial ongoing capital investment. Our consolidated capital expenditures totaled Php43,175 million, Php34,759 million and Php28,838 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We currently estimate that our consolidated capital expenditures in 2016 will be approximately Php43 billion. Future strategic initiatives could require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures. We may be required to finance a portion of our future capital expenditures from external financing sources, some of which have not yet been fully arranged. There can be no assurance that financing for new projects will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot complete our development programs or other capital projects on time due to our failure to obtain the required financing, our growth, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our results of operations and our financial position could be materially and adversely affected if the Philippine peso significantly fluctuates against the U.S. dollar. A substantial portion of our indebtedness, related interest expenses, our capital expenditures and a portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies, whereas most of our revenues are denominated in Philippine pesos. See Note 21 – Interest-bearing Financial Liabilities to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements in Item 18. “Financial Statements”. A depreciation of the Philippine peso against the U.S. dollar would increase the amount of our U.S. dollar-denominated debt obligations and operating and interest expenses in Philippine peso terms. In the event that the Philippine peso depreciates against the U.S. dollar, we may be unable to generate enough funds through operations and other means to offset the resulting increase in our obligations in Philippine peso terms. Moreover, a depreciation of the Philippine peso against the U.S. dollar may result in our recognition of significant foreign exchange losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A depreciation of the Philippine peso could also cause us not to be in compliance with the financial covenants imposed on us by our lenders under certain loan agreements and other indebtedness. Further, fluctuations in the Philippine peso value and of interest rates impact the mark-to-market gains/losses of certain of our financial debt instruments, which were designated as non-hedged items. The Philippine peso has been subject to significant depreciation in recent years. with the Philippine peso depreciated by approximately 9% from a high of Php40.86 for the year 2012 to Php44.74 as at December 31, 2014 and further depreciated by 5% to Php47.12 as at December 31, 2015. We cannot assure you that the Philippine peso will not depreciate further and be subject to significant fluctuations going forward, due to a range of factors, including: • political and economic developments affecting the Philippines, including the level of remittances from overseas Filipino workers; • global economic and financial trends; • the volatility of emerging market currencies; • any interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve Bank of the United States; and • higher demand for U.S. dollars by both banks and domestic businesses to service their maturing U.S. dollar obligations or foreign exchange traders including banks covering their short U.S. dollar positions, among others. Our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants which require us to maintain certain financial tests and our indebtedness could impair our ability to fulfill our financial obligations and service our other debt. Our existing debt instruments contain covenants which, among other things, require PLDT to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial tests, calculated on the basis of IFRS at relevant measurement dates, principally at the end of each quarter period. For a description of some of these covenants, see Note 21 – Interest-bearing Financial Liabilities to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements in Item 18. “Financial Statements”. Our indebtedness and the requirements and limitations imposed by our debt covenants could have important consequences. For example, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements. The principal factors that could negatively affect our ability to comply with the financial ratio covenants and other financial tests under our debt instruments are depreciation of the Philippine peso relative to the U.S. dollar, poor operating performance of PLDT and our consolidated subsidiaries, impairment or similar charges in respect of investments or other long-lived assets that may be recognized by PLDT and its consolidated subsidiaries, and increases in our interest expenses. Of our total consolidated debts, 42% and 47% were denominated in foreign currencies as at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, principally in U.S. dollars, and so many of our financial ratios and other tests are expected to be negatively affected by any weakening of the Philippine peso. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. An inability to effect these measures successfully could result in a declaration of default and an acceleration of maturities of some or all of our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our subsidiaries could be limited in their ability to pay dividends to us due to internal cash requirements and their creditors having superior claims over their assets and cash flows, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. A majority of our total revenues and cash flow from operations is derived from our subsidiaries, particularly Smart. Smart has significant internal cash requirements for debt service, capital expenditures and operating expenses and as a result, may be financially unable to pay any dividends to PLDT. Although Smart has been making dividend payments to PLDT regularly since December 2002, there can be no assurance that PLDT will continue to receive these dividends or other distributions, or otherwise be able to derive liquidity from Smart or any other subsidiary or investee in the future. Creditors of our subsidiaries generally have priority claims over our subsidiaries’ assets and cash flows. We and our creditors will effectively be subordinated to the existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, of our subsidiaries, except that we may be recognized as a creditor with respect to loans we have made to subsidiaries. If we are recognized as a creditor of a subsidiary, our claim will still be subordinated to any indebtedness secured by assets of the subsidiary and any indebtedness of the subsidiary otherwise deemed superior to the indebtedness we hold. 13 Table of Contents We may have difficulty meeting our debt payment obligations if we do not continue to receive cash dividends from our subsidiaries and our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected as a result. A significant number of shares of PLDT’s voting stocks (common and voting preferred stocks) are held by four shareholders, which may not act in the interests of other shareholders or stakeholders in PLDT. As at January 31, 2016, the First Pacific Group and its Philippine affiliates, NTT Communications and NTT DOCOMO, JG Summit Holdings, Inc. and its affiliates, collectively, beneficially own approximately 53.93% in PLDT’s outstanding common stock (representing 31.83% of our overall voting stock). See Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions” for further details regarding the shareholdings of NTT Communications and NTT DOCOMO in PLDT, and the rights granted pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, Strategic Agreement and the Shareholders Agreement. Additionally, PLDT’s shares of voting preferred stock which represent approximately 41% of total outstanding shares of voting stocks are owned by a single stockholder, BTF Holdings, Inc., or BTFHI. The FP Parties and/or NTT Communications and/or NTT DOCOMO and/or BTFHI may exercise their respective voting rights over these decisions and transactions in a manner that could be contrary to the interests of other shareholders or stakeholders in PLDT. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely impact investor confidence and the market price of our common shares and ADSs, and have a material adverse effect on our business, our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to comply with various Philippine and U.S. laws and regulations on internal control. However, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including our failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, our reputation, financial condition and results of operations, and the market prices of our common shares and ADSs could decline significantly. We are unionized and are vulnerable to work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labour costs. As at December 31, 2015, PLDT has three employee unions, representing in the aggregate 5,034, or 29%, of the employees of the PLDT Group. This unionized workforce could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. For instance, PLDT experienced a significant charge from its manpower rightsizing program, MRP, in 2015, mainly incurred in the fixed-line business, with some of the charge incurred in the wireless business. See Note 5 – Income and Expenses – Compensation and Employee Benefits to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements in Item 18. “Financial Statements”. Each of our different employee groups may require separate collective bargaining agreements. If any group of our employees and PLDT are unable to reach agreement on the terms of their collective bargaining agreement or we were to experience widespread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could harm our business. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could compromise our ability to effectively manage our business and pursue our growth strategy. Our future performance depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified key technical, development, sales, services and management personnel. The loss of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be costly and time consuming, could cause additional disruptions to our business, and could be unsuccessful. We cannot guarantee the continued employment of any of the members of our senior leadership team, who may depart our company for any number of reasons, such as other business opportunities, differing views on our strategic direction or other personal reasons. As announced in our Report of Foreign Private Issuer on Form 6-K filed with the SEC on December 1, 2015, Napoleon L. Nazareno, the former president and CEO of PLDT, retired, effective December 31, 2015. Any inability to attract, retain or motivate our personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. Adverse results of any pending or future litigation and/or disputes may impact PLDT’s cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We are currently involved in various legal proceedings, including proceedings relating to the constitutionality of the Philippine SEC Guidelines in determining the nationality of a Philippine company pursuant to the decision in the case of Wilson P. Gamboa vs. Finance Secretary Margarito B. Teves, et. al. (G.R. No. 176579) and Section 11, Article XII of the Constitution, tax assessments. Our estimate of the probable costs for the resolution of these claims have been developed in consultation with our counsel handling the defense in these matters and is based upon our analysis of potential results. Our future financial performance could be materially affected by an adverse outcome or by changes in our estimates or effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings and assessments. 14 Table of Contents For more information on PLDT’s legal proceedings, see Item 8. “Financial Information – Legal Proceedings.” While PLDT believes the positions it has taken in these cases are legally valid, the final results of these cases may prove to be different from its expectations. In addition, there is no assurance that PLDT will not be involved in future litigation or other disputes, the results of which may materially and adversely impact its business and financial conditions. Risks Relating to the Philippines PLDT’s business may be adversely affected by political or social or economic instability in the Philippines. The Philippines is subject to political, social and economic volatility that, directly or indirectly, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to sustain our business and growth. We cannot assure you that the political environment in the Philippines will be stable or that the current or any future government will adopt economic policies that are conducive to sustained economic growth or which do not materially and adversely impact the current regulatory environment for the telecommunications and other companies. If foreign exchange controls were to be imposed, our ability to meet our foreign currency payment obligations could be adversely affected. The Philippine government has, in the past, instituted restrictions on the conversion of the Philippine peso into foreign currencies and the use of foreign exchange received by Philippine companies to pay foreign currency-denominated obligations. The Monetary Board of the BSP has statutory authority, with the approval of the President of the Philippines, during a foreign exchange crisis or in times of national emergency, to: • suspend temporarily or restrict sales of foreign exchange; • require licensing of foreign exchange transactions; or • require the delivery of foreign exchange to the BSP or its designee banks. We cannot assure you that foreign exchange controls will not be imposed in the future. If imposed, these restrictions could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain foreign currency to service our foreign currency obligations. As a foreign private issuer, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices which may afford less protection to holders of our ADSs. As a foreign private issuer incorporated in the Philippines and listed on the PSE, we are permitted under applicable NYSE rules to follow certain home country corporate governance practices. The corporate governance practice and requirements in the Philippines do not require us to have a majority of the members of our board of directors to be independent, and do not require us to hold regular executive sessions where only independent directors are present. Further, the criteria for independence of directors and audit committee members applicable in the Philippines differ from those applicable under the NYSE rules. These Philippine home country corporate governance practices may afford less protection to holders of our ADSs. The credit ratings of the Philippines may restrict the access to capital of Philippine companies, including PLDT. Historically, the Philippines’ sovereign debt has been rated non-investment grade by international credit rating agencies. Although during 2015, the Philippines’ long-term foreign currency-denominated debt was affirmed by Fitch as investment-grade with a rating of BBB- revised outlook to positive, and Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s affirmed the Philippines’ long-term foreign currency-denominated debt to the investment-grade rating of BBB and Baa2, respectively, the continued relatively low sovereign ratings of the Philippine Government will directly and adversely affect companies domiciled in the Philippines as international credit rating agencies issue credit ratings by reference to that of the sovereign. No assurance can be given that Fitch, Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s or any other international credit rating agency will not downgrade the credit ratings of the Philippine Government in the future and, therefore, Philippine companies, including PLDT. Any such downgrade could have a material adverse impact on the liquidity in the Philippine financial markets, the ability of the Philippine Government and Philippine companies, including PLDT, to raise additional financing, and the interest rates and other commercial terms at which such additional financing is available. 