ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Introduction In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Global economics, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact our revenue and profitability The global electronic payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. The industry also relies in part on the number and size of consumer transactions. A sustained deterioration in the general economic conditions in Canada, the United States or globally may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number of as well as the average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease of our revenue and profits. If our goodwill, indefinite-life intangible assets or other long-term assets become impaired, we will be required to record additional impairment charges, which may be significant. A significant portion of our long-term assets continues to consist of goodwill and other definite and indefinite-life intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisition of Beanstream. We do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets, but rather review them for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We consider whether circumstances or conditions exist which suggest that the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets might be impaired. If such circumstances or conditions exist, further steps are required in order to determine whether the carrying value of each of the individual assets exceeds its fair market value. If analysis indicates that an individual asset’ s carrying value does exceed its fair market value, the next step is to record a loss equal to the excess of the individual asset’s carrying value over its fair value. The steps required by Canadian and U.S. generally accepted accounting principles entail significant amounts of judgment and subjectivity. We complete our analysis of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Events and changes in circumstances that may indicate that there is impairment and which may indicate that interim impairment testing is necessary include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions to exit a business or dispose of an asset made in response to changes in economic, political and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base and on broad market conditions that drive valuation consid erations by market participants, our internal expectations with regard to future revenue growth and the assumptions we make when performing our impairment reviews, a significant decrease in the market price of our assets, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which our assets are used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect our assets, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition of an asset, and significant changes in the cash flows associated with an asset. We analyze these assets at the individual asset, reporting unit and corporate levels. As a result of such circumstances, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-life intangible assets or other long-term assets is determined. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our busin ess, financial condition and operating results. We have a general history of losses and may not operate profitably in the future. We have incurred losses for four of the last five fiscal years. As of March 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was approximately $28,877,282. We believe that our planned growth and profitability will depend in large part on our ability to expand our client base. Accordingly, we intend to invest in marketing, development of our client base and development of our marketing technology and operating infrastructure. If we are not successful in expanding our client base, it will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to continue to operate our business. -6- Excessive chargeback losses could significantly affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our agreements with our sponsoring financial institutions and certain payment processors require us to assume and bear the risk of “chargeback” losses. Under the rules of Visa and MasterCard, when a merchant processor acquires card transactions, it has certain contingent liabilities for the transactions processed. This contingent liability arises in the event of a billing dispute between the merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder’s favor. In such a case, the disputed transaction is charged back to the merchant and the disputed amount is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect this amount from the merchant’s account, or if the merchant refuses or is unable to reimburse us for the chargeback due to m erchant fraud, insolvency or other reasons, we will bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholders. In addition, if we are unable to recover these chargeback amounts from merchants, having to pay the aggregate of any such amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Because a small number of customers have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue, our financial results would be materially adversely affected if we are unable to retain customers. We have had in the past and may have in the future, a small number of customers that have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, revenue from and associated with our largest customer amounted to approximately 16% of total revenue. Our revenue could materially decline because of a delay in signing agreements with a single customer or the failure to retain an existing customer. Merchant fraud with respect to Internet-based bankcard and EFT transactions could cause us to incur significant losses. We significantly rely on the processing revenue derived from bankcard and EFT transactions. If any merchant or customer were to submit or process unauthorized or fraudulent bankcard or EFT transactions, depending on the dollar amount, we could incur significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and liquidity. Despite systems designed to manage such risk, we cannot guarantee that our systems will prevent fraudulent transactions from being submitted and processed or that the funds set aside to address such activity will be adequate to cover all potential situations that might occur. We do not have insurance to protect us from these losses. There is no assurance that any chargeback or processing reserve will be adequate to offset against any unauthorized or fraudulent processing losses that we may incur. Accordingly, should we experience such fraudulent activity and such losses, our results of operations could be immediately and materially adversely affected. Our reliance on financial institutions, providers of financial payment networks and payment technology vendors could adversely affect our ability to provide our services to our clients on a timely and cost-efficient basis. We rely to a substantial extent on third parties to provide access to networks and technology including software, data, systems and services. In some circumstances, we rely on a single supplier or limited group of suppliers. For example, we require the services of financial institutions and third-party payment processors for access to payment networks. If any of these processors cease to allow us to access their processing platforms and/or networks, our ability to process credit card, debit card, EFT and ACH payments would be severely impacted and this would, in turn, have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and liquidity. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if others claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property, we could lose any competitive advantage we may have with respect to our intellectual property or we may be required to incur significant costs with respect to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unable to successfully assert patent infringement claims against others and could incur significant costs with respect to asserting such claims. The failure to successfully assert our patent infringement claims could have a material adverse effect upon our business and our financial results. -7- We are currently asserting and have in the past asserted patent infringement claims against others. The cost of prosecuting a patent infringement claim against others is complex, carries a high degree of uncertainly and is expensive. While we believe our patents to be valid, we face the risk that our patents could ultimately be determined to be invalid or otherwise not infringed by a court, jury or the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”). In addition, one of our patents currently is, and others in the future could be, subject to a re-examination request made by a third party with the USPTO, a request that if granted would commence a proceeding that could ultimately result in such patent being determined to be invalid (see “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings”). ; Furthermore, all patents have an expiration date and our patent nos. 5,484,988, 6,164,528, 6,283,366, 6,354,491 and RE40,220, regarding electronic check processing, expire on January 16, 2013. Failure to prevail in a patent infringement claim against others, or having any of our patents being determined to be invalid prior to their expiration, would have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial results and our stock price. We may also be unable to successfully defend patent infringement claims brought against us by others which could cause us to incur significant costs. We have successfully defended patent infringement claims in the past, are currently defending patent infringement claims, and may have to defend patent infringement claims in the future, brought against us by others regarding our technology, products or services. An unfavorable resolution of these infringement claims could result in our being restricted from delivering the related product or service or result in an unfavorable monetary settlement or damage awards that could have a material adverse effect upon our business and our financial results. We could be subject to liability as a result of security breaches, service interruptions by cyber terrorists or fraudulent or illegal use of our services. Because some of our activities involve the storage and transmission of confidential personal or proprietary information, such as credit card numbers and bank account numbers, and because we are a link in the chain of e-Commerce, we are vulnerable to internal and external security breaches, service interruptions and third-party and employee fraud schemes that could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and monetary damages. Our payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. We expect that technically sophisticated criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent our anti-fraud systems. If such fraud schemes are successful or otherwise cause merchants, c ustomers or partners to lose confidence in our services in particular, or in Internet systems generally, our business would be materially adversely affected. Our business may also be susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These uses may include illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and online securities fraud. Despite measures we have taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, we cannot ensure that these measures will succeed. We believe we are compliant with the Payment Card Industry’s (PCI) Security Standard which incorporates Visa’s Cardholder Information Security Program (CISP) and MasterCard’s Site Data Protection (SDP) standard. However, there is no guarantee that we will maintain such compliance or that compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment system. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, service interruptions and fraud schemes and the failure to do so may disrupt our business, damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible monetary damages that would materially adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. -8- Changes to credit card association, debit networks and ACH rules or practices could adversely impact our business. We do not belong to nor can we directly access the bank card associations. As a result, we must rely on banks and their processing providers to process our credit, debit, EFT and ACH transactions. However, we must comply with the operating rules of the credit card associations and other payment networks such as debit networks and ACH networks. The associations’ member banks and network owners set these rules and the associations and network owners interpret them. Some of those member banks and network owners compete with us in certain situations. Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, Interac or the Automated Clearing House could adopt new operating rules or interpretations of existing rules which we might find difficult or even impossible to comply with, resulting in our inability to give customers the option of using credit cards, debit cards, EFT and ACH facilities to fund their payments. If we were unable to provide a gateway for these payment services, our business would be materially and adversely affected. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting. Management had previously concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2009, as reported by us in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 12, 2010 (the “Original Form 10-Q”). In completing the finan cial statements for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, our management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, namely, that we did not have adequately designed procedures to calculate our future tax asset value and corresponding future income tax expense as at the completion of our fiscal third quarter ended December 31, 2009. Upon discovering such material weakness, we filed an amended Form 10-Q/A with respect to such third fiscal quarter (which was filed with the SEC on June 17, 2010) in which we disclosed such material weakness and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at the reasonable assurance level as of the end of our fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009. In addition, as described in “Part II—Item 9A(T). Controls and Procedures” of this report, our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Accounting Officer (“CAO”) have also concluded that our disclosure control s and procedures were not effective at the reasonable assurance level as of the end of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. Since the discovery of the material weakness, we have undertaken efforts to remediate the weakness in our internal control over financial reporting (see “Part II—Item 9A(T). Controls and Procedures”). While we believe that these actions will remediate the material weakness control deficiencies we have identified and strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, our CEO and CAO will not be able to determine whether these additional controls are operating effectively until they have assessed their effectiveness as part of their evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting for the first two interim periods following implementation. As we improve our internal control over financial reporting and implement the remediation measures described above, we may supplement or modif y such remediation measures with additional remediation measures. However, we cannot provide assurance that either we or our independent auditors will not in the future identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, any difficulties we encounter in implementation and any failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls on an ongoing basis could cause us to not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls and could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. -9- We and our clients must comply with complex and changing laws and regulations. Government regulation influences our activities and the activities of our current and prospective clients, as well as our clients’ expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Businesses that handle consumers’ funds, such as ours, are subject to numerous state, federal, provincial and international regulations, including those related to banking, credit cards, electronic transactions and communication, escrow, fair credit reporting, privacy of personal information and financial records, internet gambling and others. State, federal and provincial money transmitter regulations and federal and international anti-money laundering and money services business regulations can also apply under some circumstances. The application of many of these laws with regard to electronic commerce is unclear. In addition, i t is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be applicable or may be adopted in the future with respect to conducting business over the Internet concerning matters such as taxes, pricing, content and distribution. If applied to us, any of the foregoing rules and regulations could require us to change the way we do business in a way that increases costs or makes our business more complex. In addition, violation of some statutes may result in severe penalties or restrictions on our ability to engage in e-Commerce, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Privacy legislation, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and regulations thereunder, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act in Canada, as well as provincial and state laws may also affect the nature and extent of the products or services that we can provide to clients as well as our ability to collect, monitor and disseminate information subject to privacy protection. Consumer protection laws in the areas of privacy of personal information and credit and financial transactions have been evolving rapidly at the state, federal, provincial and international levels. As the electronic transmission, processing and storage of financial information regarding consumers continues to grow and develop, it is likely that more stringent consumer protection laws may impose additional burdens on companies involved in such transactions including, without limitation, notification of unauthorized disclosure of personal information of individuals. Uncertainty and new laws and regulations, as well as the application of existing laws, could limit our ability to operate in our markets, expose us to compliance costs, fines, penalties and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. We have in the past collected personal data about consumers for use in our check authorization products, which has given rise to litigation involving our corporation (see “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings”). Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for e-Commerce may prompt more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional regulatory burdens on companies that provide services to online businesses. The adoption of additional laws or regulations, or taxation requirements may affect the ability to offer, or cost effectiveness of offering, goods or services online, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. The Canadian Securities Administrators in Canada and the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. in the United States, have also enacted regulations affecting our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. We expect these regulations to increase our compliance costs and require additional time and attention. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to legal actions by regulatory authorities or private parties. Our business is highly dependent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers, and any disruption or material breach of security of our systems could materially harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Any significant interruptions or security or privacy breaches in our facilities, computer networks, firewalls and databases could harm our business and reputation, result in a loss of customers or cause inquiries and fines or penalties from regulatory or governmental authorities. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry or physical break-ins, computer viruses and hackers. The measures we have enacted, such as the implementation of security access and disaster recovery plans, may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system failures. We may also exper ience software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability and increased operating expenses. -10- Our business may be harmed by errors in our software. The software that we develop and use in providing our transaction payment processing is extremely complex and contains thousands of lines of computer code. Complex software systems such as ours are susceptible to errors. We believe our software design, development and testing processes are adequate to detect errors in our software prior to its release. Because of the complexity of our systems and the large volume of transactions we process on a daily basis, it is possible that we may not detect software errors until after they have affected a significant number of transactions. Software errors can have the effect of causing merchants, customers or partners who utilize our products and services to fail to comply with their intended business policies, or to fail to comply with legal, credit card, debit card and banking requirements, suc h as those under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, NACHA rules, MasterCard’s Site Data Protection (SDP) Standard, Visa’s Cardholder Information Security Program (CISP) and Payment Card Industry’s (PCI) Data Security Standard. Our future revenues may be uncertain because of reliance on third parties for marketing and distribution. We distribute our service offerings primarily through third party sales distribution partners and our revenues are derived predominantly through these relationships. We intend to continue to market and distribute our current and future products and services through existing and other relationships both in and outside of Canada. There are no minimum purchase obligations applicable to any existing distributor or other sales and marketing partners and we do not expect to have any guarantees of continuing orders. Failure by our existing and future distributors or other sales and marketing partners to generate significant revenues, our failure to establish additional distribution or sales and marketing alliances, changes in the industry that render third party distribution networks obsolete, termination of relationships with significant distributors or marketing partners would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to p ay higher commission rates in order to maintain loyalty among our third-party distribution partners, which may have a material adverse impact on our profitability. We may require additional capital, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Capital raised through the sale or issuance of equity securities may result in dilution to our shareholders. Failure to obtain such additional capital could have a materially adverse impact on our business development. Our future business activities, the development or acquisition of new or enhanced products and services, the acquisition of additional computer and network equipment, the costs of compliance with government regulations and future expansions including acquisitions will require us to make significant capital expenditures. If our available cash resources prove to be insufficient, because of unanticipated expenses, previous acquisitions, revenue shortfalls or otherwise, we may need to seek additional financing or curtail our expansion activities. If we obtain equity financing for any reason, our existing shareholders may experience dilution in their investments. If we obtain debt financing, our business could become subject to restrictions that affect our operations or increase the level of risk in our business. It is also possible that, if we need additional financing, we will not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to expand through acquisitions involves risks and may not be successful. As part of our growth strategy, we have made business acquisitions in recent years and we expect to be an active business acquirer in the future. We anticipate that we will seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services in the future. The acquisition and integration of businesses involves a number of risks and challenges, including: · Maintaining the acquired business’ customer relationships; · Demonstrating to the customers of the acquired business that the acquisition has not resulted in changes that would adversely impact the ability of the acquired business to address the needs of its customers; · The operations, technology and personnel of an acquired business may be difficult to integrate; · An acquired business may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; · The allocation of management resources to complete a business acquisition may divert management resources from our business and disrupt our day-to-day operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of an acquired business successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of any business combination and our failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and stock price. -11- Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results, which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition as well as the value of our foreign assets. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the value of our foreign assets, which, in turn, may adversely affect reported earnings or losses and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations, with the exception of our newly acquired subsidiary Beanstream. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency of our operations since substantially all of our operations are conducted in U.S. currency. As a result, when we are paying any obligation that is denominated in a foreign currency (including, for example, the Beanstream promissory notes which are denominated in Canadian dollars), we must generate the equivalent amount of cash in U.S dollars that, when exchanged at the then-prevailing applicable forei gn currency exchange rate, will equal the amount of the obligation to be paid (which means that we may pay more U.S. dollars than initially anticipated if the foreign currency strengthens against the U.S. dollar between the time we incur the obligation and the time we are required to pay the obligation). Changes in the U.S./Canadian currency exchange rate could have a significant adverse impact on our current liquidity and capital resources and could also have a material adverse impact on our profitability and results of operations. We have historically experienced fluctuations in our operating results and expect these fluctuations to continue in future periods, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. Our revenue model is based largely on recurring revenues, billed monthly, predominately derived from growth in customers and the numbers of transactions processed within a monthly billing period. The number of transactions processed is affected by many factors, several of which are beyond our control, including general consumer trends and holiday shopping in the fourth quarter of the calendar year. Our operating results may also fluctuate in the future due to a variety of other factors, including the timing and extent of restructuring, and impairment and other charges that may occur in a given fiscal year, the final disposition of any patent litigation and new changes in accounting rules, such as the requirement to record stock-based compensation expense for employee stock option grants made at fair market value. As a result of these factors, we believe that our fiscal year results are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty, and year-to-year comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on our fiscal year results of operations to predict our future performance. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could fall dramatically. Our common stock price could also fall dramatically if investors or public market analysts reduce their estimates of our future quarterly operating results, whether as a result of information we disclose, or based on industry, market or economic trends, or other factors. We may be required to offset future deferred tax assets with a valuation allowance. During the previous fiscal year, we conducted an analysis of our ability to realize our future income tax assets. As a result of this analysis, we reduced the valuation allowance from prior years relating to our future tax assets resulting in an income tax benefit of approximately $5,268,000 for 2009, whereas we did not record an income tax benefit for 2008. However, if we fail to achieve future taxable income assumed in the calculation of our future tax assets or if we fail to implement feasible and prudent tax planning strategies, we may be required to offset future tax assets with a valuation allowance, resulting in an additional tax expense. The change in the valuation could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and results of operations. If we do not ach ieve sufficient Canadian and U.S. taxable income in future years to utilize all or some of our net operating loss carryforwards, they will expire. -12- We face competition from a broad and increasing range of vendors that could reduce or eliminate demand for our products and services. The market for products and services offered to participants in online transactions is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, merchant requirements, pricing competition, rapid rates of product obsolescence, and rapid rates of new product introduction. This market is fragmented and a number of companies offer one or more products or services competitive with ours. We face competition from several providers of online payment processing services, including CyberSource Corporation, Plug & Pay Technologies, Inc., Verisign/PayPal, Inc., Google, Inc. and LinkPoint International, Inc., a subsidiary of First Data Corporation as well as financial services companies, credit card and payment processing companies. We anticipate continued growth and the formation of ne w alliances in the market in which we compete, which will result in the entrance of new or the creation of bigger competitors in the future. Because competitors can penetrate one or more of our markets, we anticipate additional competition from other established and new companies. In addition, competition may intensify as competitors establish cooperative relationships among themselves or alliances with others. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements, or may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services. In addition, in order to meet client requirements, we must often work cooperatively with companies that are, in other circumstances, competitors. The need for us to work cooperatively with such companies may limit our ability to compete aggressively with those companies in other circumstances. If we lose customers, our business operations may be materially adversely & #160;affected, which could cause us to cease our business or curtail our business to a point where we are no longer able to generate sufficient revenue to fund operations. The demand for many of our products and services could be negatively affected by reduced growth of e-Commerce, delays in the development of the Internet infrastructure, a general economic slowdown or any other event causing a material slowing of consumer spending. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. Any changes in economic factors that adversely affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a reduction in check writing or credit and debit card usage, could reduce the volume of transactions that we process, and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the growing use and acceptance of the Internet by merchants and customers in Canada and the United States as a means to grow our business. We cannot be certain that acceptance and use of the Internet will continue to grow or that a sufficiently broad base of merchants and consumers will adopt, and continue to use, the Internet as a medium of commerce. It is also possible that continued growth in the number of Internet users and the use of the Internet generally, may overwhelm the existing Internet infrastructure. Delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity could also have a detrimental effect on the Internet and correspondingly on our business. These factors would adversely affect usage of the Internet and lower demand for our products and services. If we do not continue to enhance our existing products and services and develop or acquire new ones, we will not be able to compete effectively. As part of our business strategy, we are seeking to further penetrate into the transaction payment processing market and to expand our business into new markets or markets that are complementary to our existing transaction payment processing segment operations. If we are not able to successfully expand our penetration into the existing transaction payment processing market or into new or complementary markets, our financial results and future prospects may be harmed. Our ability to increase market penetration and enter new or complementary markets depends on a number of factors, including growth in our existing and targeted markets, our ability to provide products and services to address the needs of those markets and competition in those markets. -13- The industries in which we do business or intend to do business have been changing rapidly as a result of increasing competition, technological advances, changing consumer payment habits, regulatory changes and evolving industry practices and standards, and we expect these changes will continue. Current and potential clients have also experienced significant changes as the result of competition and economic conditions. In addition, the business practices and technical requirements of our clients are subject to changes that may require modifications to our products and services. In order to remain competitive and successfully address the evolving needs of our clients, we must commit a significant portion of our resources to: · identify and anticipate emerging technological and market trends affecting the markets in which we do business; · enhance our current products and services in order to increase their functionality, features and cost-effectiveness to clients that are seeking to control costs and to meet regulatory requirements; · develop or acquire new products and services that meet emerging client needs, such as products and services for the online market; · modify our products and services in response to changing business practices and technical requirements of our clients, as well as to new regulatory requirements; · integrate our current and future products with third-party products; and · create and maintain interfaces to changing client and third party systems. We must achieve these goals in a timely and cost-effective manner and successfully market our new and enhanced products and services to clients. There is no assurance that our current products and services will stay competitive with those of our competitors or that we will be able to introduce new products and services to compete successfully in the future. If we are unable to expand or appropriately enhance or modify our products and services quickly and efficiently, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We may not be able to attract, retain or integrate key personnel, including executive officers, which may prevent us from successfully operating our business. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or attract other qualified personnel in the future. Our success will depend upon the continued service of key management personnel as well as the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers. The loss of services of any of the key members of our management team or our failure to attract and retain other key personnel could disrupt operations and have a negative effect on employee productivity and morale and have a material adverse impact upon our financial results. The loss of any of our executive officers could impair our ability to successfully manage our current business or implement our planned business objectives and our future operations may be adversely affected. Our business depends on the services of skilled software engineers who can develop, maintain and enhance our products, consultants who can undertake complex client projects and sales and marketing personnel. In general, only highly qualified, highly educated personnel have the training and skills necessary to perform these tasks successfully. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our products and services and to meet client requirements, we need to attract, motivate and retain a significant number of software engineers, consultants and sales and marketing personnel. Qualified personnel such as these are in short supply and we face significant competition for these employees, from not only our competitors but also clients and other enterprises. Other employers may offer software engineers, consultants and sales and marketing pers onnel significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive career paths than we are able to offer. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel would seriously damage our business. Consolidation in the industries we serve may adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services. Mergers, acquisitions and personnel changes at financial institutions, payment processors and payment technology providers including brick and mortar and e-Commerce retailers may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The payments industry continues to consolidate and this consolidation could cause us to lose: · current and potential customers; and · market share if an entity resulting from a combination of our customers determines that it is more efficient to develop in-house products and services similar to ours or to use our competitors’ products and services. -14- Estimates of future financial results are inherently unreliable. From time to time, the Corporation and its representatives may make public predictions or forecasts regarding the Corporation’s future results, including estimates regarding future revenues, expense levels, tax rates, acquisition expenses, capital expenditures, earnings or earnings from operations. Any forecast regarding our future performance reflects various assumptions and judgments by management regarding the likelihood that certain possible future events will in fact occur. These assumptions and judgments are subject to significant uncertainties and shifting market dynamics, and, as a matter of course, many of them will prove to be incorrect. Further, events that may seem unlikely or relatively certain at the time a given prediction is made may in fact occur or fail to occur. Many of the factors that can influence the outco me of any prediction or projection are beyond our control. As a result, there can be no assurance that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Investors are cautioned that any prediction, projection or other forward looking statement made by us should be considered current only as of the date made. Investors are encouraged to utilize the entire available mix of historical and forward-looking information made available by us, and other information relating to our Corporation and our products and services, when evaluating our prospective results of operations. We may not be able to successfully manage operational changes. Over the last several years, our operations have experienced rapid significant growth in some areas and significant restructurings and cutbacks in others. These changes have created significant demands on our executive, operational, development and financial personnel and other resources. If we achieve future growth in our business, or if we are forced to make additional restructurings, we may further strain our management, financial and other resources. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and reporting systems. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully manage the future changes in our business. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 