D. Risk Factors The Company's primary risks are transaction risks. In addition, the Company has been and may continue to be affected by many other factors, including but not limited to: (1) economic and market conditions, including the liquidity of capital markets; (2) the volatility of market prices, rates and indices; (3) the timing and volume of market activity; (4) inflation; (5) the cost of capital, including interest rates; (6) political events, including legislative, regulatory and other developments; (7) competitive forces, including the Company's ability to attract and retain personnel; (8) support systems; and (9) litigation. In determining whether to make an investment in the Company's capital stock, investors should consider carefully all of the information set forth in this Annual Report and, in particular, the following risk factors. Transaction Risks The Company manages transaction risk through allocating and monitoring its capital investments and carefully screening clients and transactions. Nevertheless, transaction risks can arise from, among other things, the Company's merchant banking and private equity activities and relate to the risks of the proposed transaction. These risks include market risks associated with the Company's role in providing advisory services. 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company often makes investments in highly unstructured situations and in companies undergoing severe financial stress. Such investments also often involve severe time constraints. These investments may expose the Company to significant transaction risks and place the Company's funds in illiquid situations. An unsuccessful investment may result in the total loss of such investment and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, in order to grow its business, the Company may seek to acquire or invest in new companies. The Company's failure to make such acquisitions may limit its growth. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, the Company may be in competition with other companies having similar growth and investment strategies. Competition for these acquisitions or investment targets could result in increased acquisition or investment prices and a diminished pool of businesses, technologies, services or products available for acquisition or investment. Competition Risks The Company conducts its business in a highly competitive environment. Many of its competitors have far greater resources, capital and access to information than the Company. Competition includes firms traditionally engaged in financial services, such as banks, broker-dealers and investment dealers. Increased competition may lead the Company to become involved in transactions with more risk. Market Risks Market risk relates to fluctuations in the liquidity of securities, as well as volatility in market conditions generally. The markets for securities and other related products are affected by many factors over which the Company has little or no control. These factors include the financial performance and prospects of specific companies and industries, world markets and economic conditions, the availability of credit and capital, political events and perceptions of market participants. The Company is exposed to the risk of a market downturn. As a financial services company, the Company's business is materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. In the event of a market downturn, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, there is no assurance that an active public market for the Company's securities will continue. A market downturn could lead to a decline in the number and size of the transactions that the Company executes for its clients, including transactions in which the Company provides financial advisory and other services, and to a corresponding decline in the revenues the Company receives from fees. A market downturn could further result in losses to the extent that the Company owns assets in such market. Conversely, to the extent that the Company has sold assets the Company does not own (i.e., if the Company has short positions) in any market, an upturn in such market could expose the Company to potentially unlimited losses as it attempts to cover its short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. Even in the absence of a market downturn, the Company is exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS A rise in inflation may affect the Company's results. The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material impact on its revenues or income over the past three fiscal years. In addition, since the Company's assets to a large extent are liquid in nature, they are not significantly affected by inflation. However, increases in inflation could result in increases in the Company's expenses. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects on capital markets, it could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Market risk may increase the other risks that the Company faces. In addition to the market risks described above, market risks could exacerbate the other risks that the Company faces. For example, if the Company incurs substantial trading losses, its need for liquidity could rise sharply while its access to liquidity could be impaired. Legal and Regulatory Risks The Company is exposed to legal risks in its business and the volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation against financial intermediaries are increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions and, potential liability for advice the Company provides to participants in corporate transactions. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. See Note 10 of the Financial Statements for additional information with respect to the Company's legal and regulatory proceedings. Employment Risks The Company's future success depends, in significant part, upon the continued service and performance of its senior management. Losing the services of some or all of these individuals could impair the Company's ability to conduct its business. Enforcement Risks The enforcement of civil liabilities by investors under applicable United States federal and state securities laws may be adversely affected because the Company is organized under the laws of the Yukon Territory, Canada and none of its officers or directors are residents of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for United States investors to effect service of process upon the Company's officers or directors within the United States. It may also be difficult to realize against the Company or its officers or directors, in the United States, upon judgments of United States courts for civil liabilities under applicable United States federal and state securities laws. Courts in Canada or elsewhere may not enforce: (1) judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against the Company or its officers or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of applicable United States federal and state securities laws; and (2) in original actions, liabilities against the Company or officers or directors predicated upon such laws. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS Additionally, the Company is organized under the laws of the Yukon Territory, Canada and its principal operating assets are located outside of the United States. Under bankruptcy laws in the United States, courts typically have jurisdiction over a debtor's property, wherever it is located, including property situated in other countries. Courts outside of the United States may not recognize the United States bankruptcy court's jurisdiction. Accordingly, investors may have trouble administering a United States bankruptcy case involving a Canadian debtor with property located outside of the United States. Any orders or judgments of a bankruptcy court in the United States may not be enforceable. Miscellaneous Risks Certain provisions of the Company's charter documents and the applicable corporate legislation may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or changes in its management that shareholders consider favourable. Such provisions include authorizing the issuance by its board of directors of preferred stock in series, providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms and limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, the Investment Canada Act, referred to as the "ICA", may impose limitations on the rights of non-Canadians to acquire the Company's common shares. ITEM 