Risk Factors Our substantial level of debt could impair our financial condition. We currently have a substantial amount of debt. Our significant level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: · requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, therefore reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; 14 · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; and · any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including our revolving credit facility, leave us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. We may not be able to continue to realize revenue growth from Calvin Klein. A significant portion of our business strategy involves growing the Calvin Klein business. Our realization of revenue growth from Calvin Klein will depend largely upon our ability to: · successfully design and market the Calvin Klein men's better sportswear line over time; · successfully design and market the Calvin Klein women's better sportswear line over time through our licensing relationship with Kellwood and G.A.V.; · continue to develop the licensing relationship with Vestimenta for the men's and women's high-end collection apparel businesses; · successfully operate a chain of Calvin Klein retail outlet stores in premium outlet malls; · maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identity of Calvin Klein; · maintain good working relationships with Calvin Klein's licensees and enter into new licensing arrangements; and · continue to execute our strategies for Calvin Klein without adversely impacting our existing business. We cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for the Calvin Klein brands or that the launch of any Calvin Klein branded products by us or our licensees will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. Our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and develop new relationships with apparel retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. If we fail to develop and grow successfully the Calvin Klein business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. A substantial portion of our revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenues. A few of our customers, including Federated, JCPenney, Kohl's, May and Wal-Mart, account for significant portions of our revenues. Sales to our five largest customers were 28.8% of our revenues in fiscal 2004, 27.2% of our revenues in fiscal 2003 and 30.7% of our revenues in fiscal 2002. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. A decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other business partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other business partners, could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The retail industry has, in the past, experienced a grea t deal of consolidation and other ownership changes. Retailers, in the future, may further 15 consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target market. In early 2005, for instance, Federated and May announced that they propose to merge. The emerging entity would have accounted for 12.5% of our revenue in 2004. In addition, there have been recent published reports that Saks may put itself up for sale and that JCPenney may be a takeover target. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. These changes could both decrease our opportunities in the market and increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers. Our business could be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by our customers. During the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. We sell our products primarily to national and regional department, mid-tier department and mass market stores in the United States on credit and evaluate each customer's financial condition on a regular basis in order to determine the credit risk we take in selling goods to them. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer and we may be unable to shift sales to another viable customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial instability. Should these circumstances arise with respect to our customers, our inability to shift sales or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of our customers could substantially reduce our revenu es and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. During fiscal 2004, in excess of 95% of our apparel products and 95% of our raw materials for apparel were produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in the Far East, Indian subcontinent, Middle East, Caribbean and Central America. We believe that we are one of the largest procurers of shirting fabric in the world. Additionally, our footwear products and the raw materials therefor were produced by and purchased or procured from manufacturers located principally in countries in the Far East, Europe, South America and the Caribbean. Although no single supplier and no one country is critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: · political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; · political or military conflict involving the United States, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; · heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; · a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, which are currently in high demand; · disease epidemics and health related concerns, such as the SARS outbreak and the mad cow and hoof and mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; · the migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; · imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; · imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; 16 · significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; and · restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. If our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could suffer. We require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. Additionally, we impose upon our business partners, operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers to determine compliance. However, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation cou ld be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. Our reliance on independent manufacturers could cause delay and damage customer relationships. In fiscal 2004, we relied upon independent third parties for the manufacture of more than 95% of our apparel products and 100% of our footwear products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. A manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. As a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. Any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. A significant portion of our revenues are dependent on royalties and licensing. In fiscal 2004, $181.2 million, or 11.0%, of our revenues were derived from licensing royalties and other revenues, principally in our Calvin Klein Licensing segment. Royalty and other revenues from Calvin Klein's three largest business partners accounted for approximately 61% of its royalty and other revenues in fiscal 2004. We also derive licensing revenues from our Van Heusen, IZOD, IZOD G, G.H. Bass & Co. and Arrow brand names. Our three largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 39% of licensing revenue for these brand names as a group in fiscal 2004. The operating profit associated with our royalty and other revenues is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. Therefore, the loss of a significant business partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the rela tionship, the cessation of the business partner's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties), without an equivalent replacement, could materially affect our profitability. For example, Warnaco accounted for approximately 30% of Calvin Klein's royalty and other revenues in fiscal 2004. Although Warnaco emerged from bankruptcy proceedings in 2003, no assurance can be given as to its future financial stability. While we generally have significant control over our business partners' products and advertising, we rely on our business partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. Our business partners' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing business partners could adversely affect our revenues both directly from reduced royalty and other revenues received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. Risks are also associated with a business partner's ability to: · obtain capital; · manage its labor relations; · maintain relationships with its suppliers; · manage its credit risk effectively; and · maintain relationships with its customers. 17 In addition, we rely on our business partners to preserve the value of our brands. Although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our business partners of each of our licensed brands. The misuse of our brands by a business partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, Calvin Klein in the past has been involved in legal proceedings with Warnaco with respect to certain quality and distribution issues. As a result of our acquisition of Calvin Klein in 2003, Warnaco is entitled to control design and advertising related to the sale of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing the Calvin Klein brands. We cannot assure you that Warnaco will continue to maintain the same standards of design and advertising previously maintained by Calvin Klein, although we believe they are generally obligated to do so. Our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. Our retail stores are located principally in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. As a result, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including as a result of war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks, which would lead to decreased travel, could have a material adverse affect on us, as was the case after the September 11th terrorist attacks. Other factors which could affect the success of our stores include: · the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; · the other tenants occupying space at the mall; · increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; · a downturn in the economy generally or in a particular area where an outlet mall is located; and · the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. Since our acquisition of Calvin Klein in 2003, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the Calvin Klein brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally higher pricing of Calvin Klein branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. Imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by other s or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. For example, we were involved in a proceeding relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the IZOD mark in Mexico, and Calvin Klein was involved in a proceeding relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the Calvin Klein mark in Chile. We are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. The success of Calvin Klein depends on the value of our Calvin Klein brands, and if the value of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our brands and their value. The Calvin Klein name is integral to the existing Calvin Klein business, as well as to the implementation of our strategies for growing and expanding Calvin Klein. Although Mr. Klein will continue as a consultant until February 2006, he is no longer a member of management. Our Calvin 18 Klein business could be adversely affected if there is a perception by consumers that, as a result of the sale of the business, Mr. Klein's role has changed in a manner that is disadvantageous to the Calvin Klein business. The Calvin Klein brands could be adversely affected if Mr. Klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. We may seek in the future stockholder approval to change the name of our company to "Calvin Klein Inc." or a similar name. Any such name change could increase our risks related to the public perception of the Calvin Klein name. Our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. Our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. This strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. As part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including Kenneth Cole, Max Azria, Michael Kors, Sean "P. Diddy" Combs (Sean John) and Donald J. Trump. In entering into these license agreements, we plan on our products to be targeted towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and estimate profitability. If any of our licensors determines to "re-position" their products under the brands we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, ta rget market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. In addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images or reputations were to be negatively impacted. Our revenues and profits are cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending patterns. The apparel and footwear industries in which we operate have historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations and are particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy, with consumer spending tending to decline during recessionary periods. The success of our operations depends on consumer spending. Consumer spending is impacted by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment, wages and salaries), business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit and tax rates in the general economy and in the international, regional and local markets where our products are sold. Any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers' use of credit. In addition, war, terrorist activity or the threat of war and terr orist activity could adversely affect consumer spending, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition in the apparel and footwear industries. Competition is strong in the segments of the apparel and footwear industries in which we operate. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands and manufacturers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which are significantly larger or more diversified or have greater resources than we do. In addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. We compete within the apparel and footwear industries primarily on the basis of: · anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; · maintaining favorable brand recognition; · appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; · providing strong and effective marketing support; · ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and · obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. We attempt to minimize risks associated with competition, including risks related to changing style trends and product acceptance, by closely monitoring retail sales trends. The failure, however, to compete effectively or to 19 keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities with others. The loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. We also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel and footwear industries is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. Significant influence by certain stockholders. In connection with our acquisition of Calvin Klein, affiliates of Apax Managers, Inc. and Apax Partners Europe Managers Limited purchased our Series B convertible redeemable preferred stock, which, as of January 30, 2005, was convertible by them into 36.8% of our outstanding common stock. If we elect not to pay a cash dividend for any quarter, then the Series B convertible redeemable preferred stock will be treated for purposes of the payment of future dividends and upon conversion, redemption or liquidation as if an in-kind dividend has been paid. As a result, it is possible that if we do not pay a cash dividend on the Series B convertible redeemable preferred stock in any quarter through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 (assuming no further issuances of common stock, including as a result of the exercise of stock options), a change in control will result under our existing various indentures and certain other agre ements. While the holders of our Series B convertible redeemable preferred stock are prohibited from initiating a takeover, in certain circumstances, they may be able to participate in a bidding process initiated by a third party. As long as affiliates of the Apax affiliates own at least 50% of the shares of our Series B convertible redeemable preferred stock initially sold to the Apax affiliates, they will have the ability to prevent a change of control, or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Additionally, as long as 50% of our Series B convertible redeemable preferred stock remains outstanding, the holders of our Series B convertible redeemable preferred stock will have a right to purchase their pro rata share of newly-issued securities. The holders of our Series B convertible redeemable preferred stock have certain additional rights, including the right to approve the issuance of certain new series of our pr eferred stock, which could also have the effect of discouraging a third party from pursuing a non-negotiated takeover, and preventing changes in control, of our company. As a result of the rights related to their ownership of our Series B convertible redeemable preferred stock, the Apax affiliates have substantial influence over us, including by virtue of their right to elect separately as a class three directors and to have one of their directors serve on the compensation, nominating and executive committees of our board subject to applicable law, rule and regulation. 20 