Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock entails a variety of serious risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary from what we projected, and our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risk factors are intended to highlight factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. We have organized the risk factor discussion below around certain categories, although there is some overlap of specific risk factor disclosure between categories. The order of the categories set forth below, and the order of particular risk factors within each category, is not necessarily indicative of the likelihood of the occurrence of any of the risks described below or the magnitude of the effect on us in the event any such risks should occur. Risks Related to the Proposed Dissolution and Liquidation of the Company Set forth below is a description of significant risks associated with the proposed dissolution and liquidation of the Company. If our stockholders do not approve the proposed dissolution of the Company, our resources may continue to diminish. If our stockholders do not approve the proposed dissolution of the Company or if the dissolution is abandoned by our board or otherwise not implemented, our board of directors will explore what, if any, strategic alternatives are available for our company. Possible alternatives include, among other things, reconsidering proposals previously considered and rejected, seeking voluntary dissolution at a later time and with potentially diminished assets or seeking bankruptcy protection (should our net assets decline precipitously for some unforeseen reason). There can be no assurance that any of these alternatives would result in greater stockholder value than the proposed dissolution and liquidation of the Company. Moreover, any alternative we select may have unanticipated negative consequences, and we will face a number of risks, including: •We expect to continue incurring net losses from our continuing operations, and our cash resources will continue to diminish as a result; •If stockholders do not approve the proposed dissolution of the Company, there can be no assurance that the holders of our common stock, including one or more of the holders of 5% or more of our common stock, will not sell their shares and thereby potentially impair our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards by causing an "ownership change" (as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the "Code"); and •We may continue to incur expenses associated with being a public reporting company, including ongoing SEC reporting obligations. These expenses would accelerate the depletion of our existing cash resources. We may not be able to receive reasonable value when selling or otherwise monetizing our assets, including our investment in FATV. The value that stockholders ultimately realize upon the liquidation of the Company is dependent in part on the monetization of certain assets, the most substantial of which is our investment in FATV. At December 31, 2013, we valued this investment at approximately $17.6 million. However, this investment is illiquid and not subject to rapid monetization. We expect that some or all of the assets in which FATV is invested will experience a "liquidity event" (i.e., there will be a disposition of the assets generating cash distributions to FATV's investors, including the Company), but the timing of any such liquidity event is uncertain, and the value realized for any of the investment assets is similarly uncertain. In the event we instead attempt to sell this asset, we may not be able to find a buyer. In addition, it may be difficult to obtain a favorable return when attempting to 6 Table of Contents sell this investment in connection with the liquidation and dissolution of the Company. Because we are seeking to consummate the liquidation, we may not realize as much value for this investment as we might have if we had been able to sell this investment as a going concern. We may not realize cash or any other liquid asset from these investments in the near future, and the amounts we do realize, if any, may be far less than the value we ascribe to these assets now. The timing of liquidating payments and the total value stockholders receive upon liquidation is subject to many variables and risks, many of which will not be known at the time of the stockholder vote. After we file our certificate of dissolution, we intend to make liquidating cash distributions to our stockholders, which will reflect "hold-backs," or "reserves," for creditor claims. The amount and timing of these distributions will be at the discretion of the Board. The distribution of our assets to stockholders may be delayed for a number of reasons. For example, one or more of our creditors might seek an injunction against our making the proposed distributions to stockholders under the terms of the proposed dissolution and liquidation. The amounts distributed to stockholders will depend upon various factors and risks, including the proceeds received from the monetization of non-cash assets, the timing of receipt of those proceeds and the amount of our actual and potential liabilities. If our liabilities prove to be greater than anticipated, additional claims are made, or legal action is brought against us by creditors or others, planned distributions to stockholders could be delayed or reduced, or there could be nothing remaining available to distribute to stockholders. Stockholders could be held liable to creditors, up to the amount actually distributed to such stockholder in dissolution. If the Company's dissolution is approved by our stockholders, we expect to file a Certificate of Dissolution with the Delaware Secretary of State dissolving the Company. Pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL"), we will continue to exist for three years after our dissolution or for such longer period as the Delaware Court of Chancery shall direct, for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits against us and enabling us gradually to close our business, to dispose of our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our stockholders any remaining assets. Under applicable law, in the event we fail to create during this three-year period an adequate reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities (and otherwise do not have sufficient assets for payment of our expenses and liabilities), each stockholder who receives a liquidating distribution could be held liable for payment to our creditors of such stockholder's pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such stockholder in dissolution. This means that a stockholder could be required to return all liquidating distributions previously made to such stockholder and receive nothing from us under the dissolution and liquidation. Moreover, in the event a stockholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a stockholder incurring a net tax cost if the stockholder's repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. There can be no guarantee that the reserves established by us will be adequate to cover all such expenses and liabilities. We may not be able to retain two of our executive officers, whom we believe are essential to our day-to-day operations and to the completion of our proposed dissolution and liquidation. On October 18, 2013, we entered into key employee retention agreements with each of Ms. Patricia Arciero-Craig, General Counsel and Secretary, and Mr. Bryan Edmiston, Controller. These retention agreements expire on November 30, 2014. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain either or both of Ms. Arciero-Craig or Mr. Edmiston, and the loss of either or both individuals could significantly hinder our day-to-day operations as well as our ability to complete the proposed dissolution of the Company in an orderly and efficient manner. Our continued listing on NASDAQ is uncertain. We received a letter from NASDAQ requesting certain information, pursuant to NASDAQ's discretionary authority under Listing Rule 5250(a)(1), regarding the Company's ongoing business in light of its prior disclosures that it had exited its 7 Table of Contents Investment Banking and Fixed Income businesses and had no meaningful revenue-producing operations. We have discussed the matter with NASDAQ and provided the requested information. NASDAQ has indicated to us in our most recent discussions that it does not currently plan on taking any action that would lead to our common stock being delisted. However, NASDAQ has broad discretion in interpreting its listing eligibility rules, and there can be no guarantee that NASDAQ will not take action to terminate our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock is delisted from NASDAQ, a market for our common stock may not develop in the over-the-counter market or otherwise. The delisting of our common stock could adversely affect the trading activity, liquidity and price of our common stock, decrease analyst coverage, investor demand and available information concerning trading prices and volume of our common stock, make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock and potentially impair our ability to enter into certain strategic transactions. Risks Specific to our Company The disclosures below describe risks related to our business that we will continue to face, at least to some extent, regardless of whether the proposed dissolution and liquidation is implemented. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional considerations not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition or operating results could be materially and adversely affected, the value of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. In addition, in reviewing the financial statements, data and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, readers are cautioned that, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, no adjustments have been made to the financial statements and data contained herein as a result of the dissolution proposal. Recent developments have adversely affected the Company, and the future of the Company remains highly uncertain. As discussed above under Item 1—"Business" the Company currently has no meaningful revenue-producing operations. Given the Company's condition, we cannot predict when, or if, we will be able to generate revenues or become profitable. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate any strategic transactions or reinvest our assets in profitable operations if we do not proceed with the dissolution and liquidation as proposed, and it is possible that we will nevertheless need to wind down our business and ultimately, cease operations. We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from any strategic transaction. To the extent that we consummate a strategic transaction, such as a merger or sale of the Company, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. We might not be able to complete any announced transaction, and even if completed, the transaction might not result in enhanced value to our stockholders. A merger may involve the issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock, which would dilute our stockholders' ownership of our firm, or we may borrow funds or use cash on hand, which may impact our funding and liquidity. In the event the Company experiences an ownership change under Internal Revenue Code Section 382, the Company's net operating losses (estimated to be $159 million on pre-tax basis at December 31, 2013) would be fully impaired, reduced nearly to zero. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a transaction. If we consummate a strategic transaction but are unable to successfully navigate any risks and uncertainties, we may not be able to capture the maximum value of such transaction for stockholders, and the Company may be further adversely affected. We have a history of losses and may not return to profitability in the near future or at all. We have incurred losses in recent years, including net losses of approximately $99.5 million, $77.7 million and $82.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We cannot predict 8 Table of Contents with certainty when or if we will be able to reduce or reverse these losses, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Our assets include illiquid investments, which we may not be able to monetize at their recorded values in the near term or at all. We have investments in securities that are not publicly traded, principally FATV, which is therefore subject to an inherent liquidity risk. At December 31, 2013, FATV was carried at $17.6 million, or 18.3%, of our total assets. (Refer to Note 10 within the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.) This investment is susceptible to changes in the financial condition or prospects of the companies underlying these investments. We expect that some or all of the assets in which FATV is invested will experience a "liquidity event" (i.e., there will be a disposition of the assets generating cash distributions to FATV's investors, including the Company), the timing of any such liquidity event is uncertain, and the value realized for any of the investment assets is similarly uncertain. Even if this investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. If we choose or are required to accelerate an exit in this investment, we may realize substantially less in proceeds than if we had monetized the investment through the harvesting of the underlying portfolio companies. Our infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our financial, accounting or other data processing systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer financial loss and impairment to our liquidity, as well as, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, our operations may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports us and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties, whether due to fire, other natural disaster, power or communications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could potentially jeopardize information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be required to expend additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. Moreover, we have experienced a dramatic decline in personnel levels in 2013 as a result of exiting our previous business lines. This has included terminating many administrative personnel in accounting, regulatory compliance, legal, information technology and other functions. Without some degree of personnel redundancy, we are more exposed to business disruptions and potential liabilities resulting from unexpected departures of personnel. Our exposure to legal liability is significant. Damages that we may be required to pay could materially adversely affect our financial position and/or our results of operations. Due to the nature of the Company's previous business operations, the Company and its subsidiaries have been exposed to risks associated with a variety of legal proceedings and claims. These include litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings initiated by private parties and arising from underwriting, financial advisory, securities trading or other transactional activities, client account activities, mortgage lending, 9 Table of Contents employment matters and stockholder claims. Third parties who assert claims may do so for monetary damages that are substantial, particularly relative to the Company's financial position. These proceedings and claims typically involve associated legal costs incurred by the Company in connection with defending against these matters, which could be significant. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. We have been in the past, and are currently, subject to a variety of litigation, most of which we consider to be routine. Risks inherent in our prior business activities include potential liability under securities, mortgage lending or other laws. We are also at risk for employment-based claims alleging discrimination, harassment, wrongful discharge or breach of an employment agreement or other contractual arrangement, among other things, and seeking recoupment of compensation claimed to be owed (whether for cash or forfeited equity awards), and other damages, including demands for payment by each of our former Chief Executive Officer and former Chief Operating Officer for payments under their retention plan agreements, as described below. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In August 2012, the Company adopted the Senior Management Compensation and Retention Plan ("Retention Plan"). Our former Chief Executive Officer and former Chief Operating Officer, each of whom had entered into an agreement with the Company under the Retention Plan, were terminated as employees by the Company in May 2013. Each of them has made a demand for payment of severance payments under certain "change in control" provisions in his respective retention plan agreement, and following the Company's rejection of their demands, commenced an arbitration proceeding on September 17, 2013 before FINRA seeking money damages in an approximate amount of $7.9 million, vesting of unvested equity awards and other relief, all of which they claim are due as a result of their respective terminations. The Company has determined that no severance payments or other benefits based upon a "Change in Control" (as defined in the applicable agreements) are due to these former officers inasmuch as the Company has concluded that no "Change in Control" has occurred. We believe that these individuals' claims that a Change in Control has occurred are without merit. A FINRA hearing of the matter is currently expected to occur in the summer of 2014. Pursuant to his employment agreement, in the absence of a Change in Control, Mr. Hughes would have been entitled to a severance payment of $750,000 (not accrued at December 31, 2013), and pursuant to his Restricted Stock Award Agreement, Mr. Griff would have been entitled to vesting of 20,833 unvested shares of restricted stock, subject in each case to the execution and delivery within a specified time period (and non-revocation) of a release of claims against the Company and continued compliance with certain restrictive covenants. These conditions were not satisfied. No amounts in respect of Messrs. Hughes' and Griff's claims have been accrued as of December 31, 2013, and we consider all unvested equity awards previously held by them to have been forfeited. Our previous activities as underwriter on underwritings or as advisor for mergers and acquisitions and other transactions involved complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering "fairness opinions" in connection with mergers and other transactions. Those activities may have subjected us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including stockholders of our clients who could bring securities class action lawsuits against us. As a result of the foregoing factors, we have in the past, and are reasonably likely to in the future, incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. See also Part II, Item 1, "Legal Proceedings." 10 Table of Contents We may be required to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could increase the regulatory burden on us and could negatively affect the price and trading of our securities. We may be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "40 Act") and analogous state law. We do not propose to, nor do we hold ourselves out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and our Board of directors has passed a resolution to this effect. Nevertheless, if we are required to register as an investment company, either immediately or at some point in the future, there would be an increased regulatory burden on us which would negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny and enforcement activity over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability resulting from adverse regulatory actions. The financial services industry has experienced increased scrutiny and enforcement activity from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, FINRA, NYSE, NFA, NASDAQ, HUD, the state securities commission and state attorneys general. This regulatory environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations relating to our prior business activities in this area. We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations, examinations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our prior business activities, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Although no longer active, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are currently subject to both routine and unscheduled examinations and audits by FINRA while they remain registered as broker-dealers. These subsidiaries intend to submit Forms BDW to withdraw their registrations as broker-dealers from the SEC, self-regulatory organizations, and the states. Audits may result in any adverse findings by FINRA, and we may incur fines or other censure. The Company and its subsidiaries have received in the past, and while registered, may continue to receive in the future, inquiries and subpoenas from the SEC, FINRA, state securities regulators and other self-regulatory organizations. The Company does not always know the purpose behind these communications or the status or target of any related investigation. Some of these communications have, in the past, resulted in disciplinary actions which have sometimes included monetary sanctions, and citations for regulatory deficiencies. Substantial legal liability or regulatory action against us would likely have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. In connection with the sale of substantially all of the ClearPoint's assets to Homeward, we became subject to certain indemnification provisions, and retain the risk of loan putbacks and other related matters, for loans originated by ClearPoint existing prior to the closing of the Homeward Transaction. On February 14, 2013, the Company and certain of its affiliates, including ClearPoint, entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement ("Purchase Agreement") with Homeward. This transaction closed on February 22, 2013. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Homeward acquired substantially all of ClearPoint's assets and assumed certain liabilities of ClearPoint. The Purchase Agreement provides for customary indemnification provisions. In connection with the indemnification provisions, ClearPoint is required to maintain an escrow account of $5.0 million for a three-year period following the closing date, and the Parent has also provided for a guaranty of ClearPoint's indemnification obligations to Homeward, up to a maximum of an additional $2.5 million. Indemnity claims, if any, will be paid first from the escrow amount, and then, to the extent necessary, drawn upon the guaranty. If during the three-year period following the closing date, sums held in the escrow account are not available to satisfy indemnification claims, indemnity claims of Homeward will be paid under the guaranty up to a maximum of 11 Table of Contents $7.5 million. Any amounts paid under the guaranty will be released to the Company from the escrow account on a dollar-for-dollar basis (assuming funds are available). Outstanding claims which are expected to be paid from the escrow account in satisfaction of certain claims made by Homeward include (i) losses incurred in connection with two loan repurchase requests (currently estimated to be less than $0.1 million) and (ii) reimbursements of premiums received in connection with certain loans that refinanced within 180 days following the date of purchase by Homeward (approximately $0.1 million). In addition to the indemnification provisions related to the Homeward Transaction, in the ordinary course of business, ClearPoint also indemnified its other counterparties, against potential losses incurred by such parties including under its warehouse line agreements and loan sale agreements related to originated mortgage loans since inception (June 2008). Subsequent to the Homeward Transaction, ClearPoint paid approximately $0.1 million in satisfaction of its indemnification obligations under loan sale agreements related to losses incurred in connection with two repurchase requests from counterparties other than Homeward. ClearPoint maintains a reserve for the previously discussed loan repurchase and indemnification claims. At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 this reserve was approximately $0.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively, and is included within Accounts payable and accrued expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. Historical losses are not necessarily indicative of losses which may be incurred in the future. Our subsidiaries, on which we depend to fund our obligations, are subject to restrictions and requirements that could hinder their ability to conduct operations and make payments to us. We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to monitor and/or restrict the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. Gleacher Securities recently terminated its memberships associated with its prior self-clearing activities and is therefore no longer subject to FINRA Rule 4110(c)(2). Under this rule, Gleacher Securities was unable to make an unsecured advance or loan, pay a dividend or otherwise effect a similar distribution to the Parent and/or its affiliates in any rolling 35-calendar-day period, on a net basis, in excess of 10% of their "excess net capital," as defined under Rule 15c3-1 of the Exchange Act, without prior written FINRA approval. However, in particular, as registered broker-dealers, Gleacher Securities and Gleacher Partners must provide notice to FINRA and the SEC two days prior to any distributions that exceed in the aggregate in any 30 calendar day period, 30% of the broker-dealer's excess net capital. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. As previously mentioned, our broker-dealer subsidiaries intend to submit Forms BDW to withdraw their registrations as broker-dealers from the SEC, self-regulatory organizations, and the states. Withdrawal from registration becomes effective 60 days after the filing of Form BDW, unless a firm consents to a longer period or the SEC institutes a proceeding, delays or shortens the date of effectiveness, or otherwise imposes terms or conditions upon such withdrawal. If and when the withdrawals become effective, the rules relating to the withdrawal of capital will no longer apply. At December 31, 2013, our regulated broker-dealer subsidiaries held cash of approximately $32.1 million (of which $31.0 million was held at Gleacher Securities). In addition, because our interests in the Company's subsidiaries consist of equity interests, our rights may be subordinated to the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. Also, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which they are members. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of 12 Table of Contents net capital a broker-dealer must maintain. Any failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could impair their ability to conduct operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, agreements to which we are a party, laws and regulations to which we are subject could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions whose application could have the effect of deterring a takeover or other offer for our securities. Any such actions, together with provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Delaware law, could make efforts by stockholders to change our Board of Directors or management more difficult. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide: •for limitations on the personal liability of our directors to the Company and to our stockholders to the fullest extent permitted by law, which may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors for breach of their duty of care; •that special meetings of stockholders can be called only by our Chairman of the Board, by resolution of the Board of Directors, or by our Chief Executive Officer, President or Secretary (and do not provide our stockholders with the right to call a special meeting or to require the Board of Directors to call a special meeting); and •that subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock or any other series or class of stock set forth in our Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancy on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause or newly created directorships, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, and a director can be removed from office without cause only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock, voting together as a single class. Also, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless other criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights of our common stock, from, among other things, merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. In addition, our brokerage subsidiaries are heavily regulated, and some of our regulators require that they approve transactions, that could result in a change of control, as defined by the then-applicable rules of our regulators. So long as these subsidiaries remain registered broker-dealers, the requirement that this approval be obtained may prevent or delay transactions that would result in a change of control. Our stock price may fluctuate experience greater volatility. With the announcement of our intention to dissolve, our progress toward a planned dissolution and ultimate liquidation could become the subject of considerable speculation, especially regarding the timing and amounts of any liquidating distributions and the lingering possibility of an alternative transaction. Speculation, and market activity influenced by speculation, may bear little resemblance to the actual facts or value of the company. This could make it more difficult for you to sell your shares at a price approximating its inherent value or at all. Because MatlinPatterson FA Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("MatlinPatterson"), and Eric J. Gleacher each controls a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock, they can exert considerable influence over the Company. As of March 17, 2014, MatlinPatterson controlled approximately 29% of the voting power of our common stock and Mr. Eric J. Gleacher, our former 13 Table of Contents Chairman, controlled approximately 12% of the voting power of our common stock. Either MatlinPatterson or Mr. Gleacher, acting together or alone, can exert considerable influence over corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, it may be difficult for other investors to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. In addition, if any of our stockholders, including MatlinPatterson and Mr. Gleacher, that in the aggregate own a majority of our common stock choose to act together, they would be able to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on common stock. These stockholders might choose to take actions that are favorable to them but not to our other stockholders. Future sales or anticipated future sales of our common stock in the public market, by us, by MatlinPatterson or Mr. Gleacher, by our current or former employees or by others, could cause our stock price to decline. The sale or anticipated future sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the open market by MatlinPatterson, Mr. Gleacher or others, whether pursuant to a resale prospectus or pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Any such decline could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. We have granted rights to certain of our stockholders, with respect to registration under the Securities Act of the offer and sale of our common stock. These rights include both "demand" registration rights, which require us to file a registration statement if asked by such holders, as well as incidental, or "piggyback," registration rights granting the right to such holders to be included in a registration statement filed by us. As of March 17, 2014, there were approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock to which these rights pertain. These sales might impact the liquidity of our common stock making it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. In addition, a strategic transaction (in lieu of dissolution and liquidation), may entail issuing additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to purchase or receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to purchase or receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of, or an expectation of sales of, shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 