Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations face a variety of serious risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and in our other public reports. If any of the following risks actually occur, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary from what we projected and our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risk factors are intended to highlight factors that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. We have organized the risk factor discussion below around certain categories, although there is some overlap of specific risk factor disclosure between categories. The order of the categories set forth below, and the order of particular risk factors within each category, is not necessarily indicative of the likelihood of the occurrence of any of the risks described below or the magnitude of the effect on us in the event any such risks should occur. Risks Specific to our Company Recent developments have adversely affected our relations with customers and employees, and relations may worsen. We have experienced several events in the recent past that have adversely affected relations with both our clients and our employees. As discussed above under Item 1, "Business—Overview," uncertainties regarding the implications of our net losses and management and employee turnover have been aggravated by the absence of a strategic transaction, the departure of Mr. Gleacher, the departures of key personnel and a prospective turnover on our Board, resulting in further questions regarding the stability and strategic direction of the Company. For example, a number of our clients have reduced or suspended trading operations with us. Moreover, at least in part because of the perceived instability of our business, new investment banking mandates have dwindled. Employee morale has also been weakened. These uncertainties may exacerbate themselves by causing additional employees to resign or additional customers to reduce or suspend trading activities with us. The Company's ability to recruit new personnel, build new or strengthen existing customer relations and generally conduct business are also greatly impaired by these circumstances, which could result in further significant declines in the level of the Company's business operations despite the efforts of management to restore confidence and recruit personnel. We have a history of losses and may not return to profitability in the near future or at all. We have incurred losses in recent years, including net losses of approximately $77.7 million, $82.1 million and $20.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Moreover, the recent events described above have resulted in a further decline in our business operations and resulting revenue. This decline will result in significantly greater losses than we had previously anticipated. We cannot predict with certainty when or if we will be able to reduce or reverse these losses and return to profitable operations. If we are not successful in eliminating our recurring losses and achieving profitable operations, or are not able to consummate a strategic transaction, we would need to wind down our business and, ultimately, cease operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce or reverse our operating losses or consummate a strategic transaction. Our ability to hire and retain our senior professionals is critical to the success of our business. In order to operate our business successfully, we rely heavily on key professionals. Their personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagements. Any loss of professionals, particularly key senior professionals or groups of related professionals, could impair our ability to secure or successfully complete engagements, result in loss of sales and trading business, materially and adversely affect our revenues and make it more difficult to operate profitably. 10 Table of Contents In the past, we have lost investment banking, brokerage, research, and other senior professionals and executives. For example, in February 2013, approximately 20 professionals previously employed in our Credit Products division resigned and began working for a competitor. We also experienced approximately 70 departures in our MBS & Rates division since April 2012, which were subsequently replaced by the hiring of approximately 50 professionals. In addition, over the past three years, we have experienced significant turnover of senior management, including multiple chief executive and chief financial officers, as well as the heads of our divisions. The several events in the recent past discussed above under Item 1, "Business—Overview" have weakened employee morale, which may lead to additional resignations. Such turnover can result, and has resulted, in disruptions and inefficiencies in our business. As a result, we have experienced a significant decline in revenue in the first quarter of 2013, and we cannot predict when, or if, we will be able to reduce or reverse this decline in associated losses. Moreover, this type of turnover forces us to commit greater amounts of resources to recruiting. These factors have adversely impacted our stock price, our client relationships, our business and operating results, and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. We also encounter intense competition to recruit qualified employees. Companies with which we compete for employees include those in the investment banking industry as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds. At any time, there could be a shortage of qualified personnel whom we could hire. Recent adverse developments and publicity involving the Company have made hiring particularly challenging. These challenges may hinder our ability to expand or cause a backlog in our ability to conduct our business, including the handling of investment banking transactions and the processing of brokerage orders. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from period to period, which may impact our stock price. In recent years, we have incurred losses and experienced significant turnover, including among our senior management and business leaders of our operating segments, as well as a number of departures, generally, throughout the ranks of our organization. Recently, as discussed under Item 1, "Business—Overview," we have experienced several events that have adversely affected our business operations and resulted in a further deterioration of our financial results. We cannot predict when, or if, we will be able to reduce or reverse this decline in our results. In addition, variations in our financial results are also attributed in part to trading activity and the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. Our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the interest in the market for the products and services we trade and offer, as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. This risk may be intensified by focusing on companies in specific industries or sectors. For example, our investment banking segment focuses on companies in the real estate, leveraged finance, financial services, aerospace and defense, technology, media and telecom, paper and packaging, general industrial and financial sponsor coverage industries. Concentrating in a specific sector or industry exposes us to volatility in that area that may not affect the broader markets. In addition, our results of operations experience some seasonality, with the third quarter typically being less robust than other quarters, because of typical summer month activity slow-down in July and August of each year for our sales and trading operations, as well as the impact of the holiday season on fourth quarter operating results. Our business is subject to significant credit risk, and the financial difficulty of another prominent financial institution could adversely affect financial markets. In the normal course of our businesses, we are involved in the execution and settlement of various customer transactions and financing of various principal securities transactions. These activities are transacted on a cash or delivery-versus-payment basis and are subject to the risk of counterparty or customer nonperformance. Although transactions are generally collateralized by the underlying security or other securities, we still face the risks associated with changes in the market value of securities that we may be obligated to purchase or have 11 Table of Contents purchased in principal or riskless principal trades where a counterparty or customer fails to perform. We may also incur credit risk in our derivative transactions to the extent such transactions result in uncollateralized credit exposure to our counterparties. We seek to control the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and periodically monitoring credit limits, collateral and transaction levels. Our assets include illiquid investments in private equity funds, which we may not be able to monetize in the near term or at all. We have made principal investments in private equity funds and may make additional investments in future funds. These investments are typically made in securities that are not publicly traded and therefore are subject to an inherent liquidity risk. At December 31, 2012, $20.4 million of our total assets consisted of relatively illiquid private equity investments. (Refer to Note 10 within the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.) Our interests in these private equity funds are susceptible to changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in national or international economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions of countries in which investments are made. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of the investments through resale. Even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. If we choose or are required to accelerate an exit in one or more of these investments, we would likely realize substantially less in proceeds than if we had sold any such investment at a more opportune time. We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions and investments and personnel. To the extent that we make acquisitions or enter into business combinations, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. We might not be able to complete an announced business combination, and even if completed the acquisition or combination might not provide sufficient earnings power or other value to justify its cost. Moreover, we could experience expensive and time-consuming problems integrating the relevant operations, accounting and data processing systems, management controls, relationships with clients and business partners and other systems and operations of the acquired or combined business. In addition, acquisitions may involve the issuance of shares of our common stock, which would dilute our stockholders' ownership of our firm, or we may borrow funds or use cash on hand, which may impact our funding and liquidity. Furthermore, acquisitions entail a number of risks or other problems, including the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships, increased operating costs, exposure to unanticipated liabilities and difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. If we are not able to integrate acquisitions successfully, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Also, expansions or acquisitions divert our management's attention from our other operations. Our trading in mortgage backed securities exposes us to prepayment risk. The majority of our securities owned are related to our MBS & Rates division and are primarily comprised of agency mortgage backed securities. Our holdings in these securities are subject to prepayment risk, which have resulted and may continue to result in losses or lower returns than originally anticipated. The low interest rate environment and government initiatives to help underwater homeowners refinance their mortgages subject us to prepayment risk. In addition, other industry developments such as delinquent loan buy-backs at par, or modifications to mortgage loans, including those that may reduce the principal balance owed, could have an adverse impact on our trading revenues. Certain of our businesses focus principally on specific sectors of the economy. Deterioration in the business environment in these sectors generally or decline in the market for securities of companies within these sectors could materially and adversely affect our business. Our investment banking business focuses principally on the real estate, leveraged finance, financial services, aerospace and defense, technology, media and telecom, paper and packaging, general industrial and financial sponsor coverage industries. Volatility in the business environment in these sectors, or in the market for securities of companies within these sectors, could substantially affect our financial results and the market value of our 12 Table of Contents common stock. The market for securities in each of our target sectors may also be subject to industry-specific risks. Underwriting transactions, strategic advisory engagements and trading activities in our target sectors represent a significant portion of our business. This concentration exposes us to the risk of substantial declines in revenues in the event of downturns in these sectors of the economy. Any future downturns in our target sectors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss. We maintain securities trading positions primarily in our MBS & Rates division and may incur significant losses from these positions due to market fluctuations. For example, to the extent that we own securities, a downturn in the value of those securities would result in losses. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold securities we do not own, an upturn in value could expose us to potentially unlimited losses. We seek to minimize market risk associated with these positions by trading out of them as quickly as possible and/or through hedging strategies. Certain positions, however, may be held by us for longer periods of time while we are seeking buyers for those positions, thereby exposing us to greater risk of loss. The risk of loss is accentuated, both in terms of likelihood and amount, in times of market volatility such as experienced over the past few years. In addition, our hedging strategies may not successfully mitigate losses in our principal positions. If our hedging strategies are not successful, we could suffer significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated financial risk. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Our risk-hedging strategies also expose us to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform on their obligations. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. Although we review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to risk are not effective, we may incur significant losses. Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex and involve many different types of securities with a wide variety of terms. Our financial, accounting or other data processing systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties, including our customers, with which we conduct business, whether due to fire, other 13 Table of Contents natural disaster, power or communications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including New York, NY and Roseland, NJ, work in close proximity to each other. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer and we may not be able to implement successfully contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could potentially jeopardize our clients' or our counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of our clients, our counterparties or third parties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We seek to manage these risks through our Business Continuity Plan. See Item 1 under the heading "Business Continuity" for additional information. Our exposure to legal liability is significant. Damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. Due to the nature of the Company's business, the Company and its subsidiaries are exposed to risks associated with a variety of legal proceedings and claims. These include litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings initiated by private parties and arising from underwriting, financial advisory, securities trading or other transactional activities, client account activities, mortgage lending, employment matters and stockholder claims. Third parties who assert claims may do so for monetary damages that are substantial, particularly relative to the Company's financial position. These proceedings and claims typically involve associated legal costs incurred by the Company in connection with defending against these matters, which could be significant. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. We have been in the past, and are currently, subject to a variety of litigation arising from our business, most of which we consider to be routine. Risks in our business include potential liability under securities, mortgage lending or other laws. We are also subject to claims by employees alleging discrimination, harassment or wrongful discharge, among other things, and seeking recoupment of compensation claimed to be owed (whether for cash or forfeited equity awards), and other damages. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a brokerage and investment banking firm, we depend on our reputation to help attract and retain clients. As a result, an unsatisfied client could be more damaging to us than if we operated in other industries. Moreover, our role as underwriter on underwritings or as advisor for mergers and acquisitions and other transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering "fairness opinions" in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including stockholders of our clients who could bring securities class action lawsuits against us. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. See also—Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." 14 Table of Contents Risks Common to Companies in the Financial Services Industry Operating in the financial services industry exposes us to particular risks unlike those attendant to operating in other segments of the economy. We summarize the most significant of these risks below. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business in many ways. Our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings and are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic and geopolitical conditions generally, both in the U.S. and around the world. Ongoing events relating to the European debt crisis and the budget debates in Congress, combined with continuing uncertainties about the global economic outlook, have led to volatile global markets and challenging economic conditions. Market volatility can lead to unanticipated, severe and rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Market uncertainty and unfavorable economic conditions may also cause clients to curtail their investment activities or even cease doing business. Such adverse conditions could also negatively affect our ability to retain our clients and attract new clients. It is impossible to predict the long-term impact of this market and economic environment, whether it will persist or recur, or the extent to which our markets, products and businesses will be adversely affected. In addition, the passing and implementation of Dodd-Frank has and will continue to result in various programs, initiatives and actions being implemented in the U.S. and other markets in order to stabilize the markets, increase liquidity and restore investor confidence. It is unclear whether such initiatives will in fact be positive or negative for the financial markets over either the short or long-term. If the economic recovery remains weak and uncertain, our operations, including sales and trading and investment banking, could be negatively impacted by a reduction of trading volumes, continued tightening of spreads, fewer completed investment banking transactions, a reduced backlog and decreased size of transactions, and our diminished role in these businesses, resulting in reduced principal transactions and investment banking revenues. In the event of extreme market events, such as a recurrence of the global credit crisis, we could incur substantial loss on the value of our securities due to market volatility. Our business is also significantly affected by interest rates, which can change suddenly and unexpectedly. The Federal Reserve (the "Fed") continues to implement programs designed to further stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates low. However, the long-term impact of such programs, and the extent to which the Fed will continue these programs, remains uncertain. These programs, as well as other possible changes to the Fed's monetary policy, could significantly impact interest rates. An increase in interest rates could decrease the level of customer activity, increase our cost of funding, likely decrease new issues in the debt capital markets, decrease the value of securities owned by us and create a business environment in which mergers and acquisitions activity decreases. Any or all of these conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry and the markets in which we operate are subject to systemic risk that could adversely affect our business and results. Participants in the financial services industry and markets increasingly are closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, technology and other relationships. A significant adverse development with one participant (such as a bankruptcy or default) may spread to others and lead to significant concentrated or market-wide problems (such as defaults, liquidity problems or losses) for other participants, including the clearing organizations, clearing houses, banks, exchanges and other intermediaries with which we conduct business. This was evident during the credit crisis of 2008-2009, and the resulting events had a negative impact on many other industry participants. Dodd-Frank and other legislation, intended to prevent or minimize another financial crisis as a result of systemic risk, may not be effective in doing so. Systemic risk is inherently difficult to assess and quantify, and its form and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time and could have a negative impact on us. 15 Table of Contents The volume of anticipated investment banking transactions may differ from actual results. Our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the completion of a transaction. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that are not successfully completed. Furthermore, the completion of investment banking transactions for which we have been engaged is uncertain and beyond our control. For example, a client's transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client's or counterparty's business. If parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we earn little or no revenue but may incur significant expenses (for example, travel and legal expenses) associated with the transaction. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and third parties, many of which have no interest in, or are adverse to, the completion of a given transaction. The number of transactions for which we have been engaged is subject to change and is not necessarily indicative of future revenues. Financing and advisory services engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Even though we work to represent our clients at every stage of their lifecycle, we are typically retained on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets, mergers and acquisitions, or advisory engagements. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily predictive of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements and generate fees from the successful completion of those transactions, our business and results of operations will likely be adversely affected. Pricing pressures may negatively impact the revenues and profitability of our brokerage business. In recent years, we have experienced pricing pressures on commissions and trading margins. The Dodd-Frank legislation may result in further pricing pressures and even lower margins. We believe that pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to implement cost-reduction strategies, including reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions, spreads or other margins. Increases in capital commitments in our trading, underwriting and other businesses increases the potential for significant losses. Capital commitment needs in the capital markets industry may result in larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. Relative to many of our competitors, we have limited access to additional capital, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result, we may be forced to commit greater percentages of capital, relative to our competitors, to facilitate our business activities. Our underwriting activities may place our capital at risk. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell at anticipated price levels, securities we purchase as an underwriter. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. Increased competition, including from larger firms, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete directly with other investment firms, brokers and dealers, and commercial banks, many of which are much larger. In addition to competition from firms currently in the securities business, there has been increased competition from others offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and 16 Table of Contents products. We have experienced price competition in our MBS & Rates and Credit Products divisions, particularly in the form of compression in trading commissions and spreads. In addition, pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues. We will likely experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future, as competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. Many of our competitors in the brokerage and investment banking industries have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger client bases, greater name recognition, more professionals to serve their clients' needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with clients than we have. These larger and better-capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the brokerage and investment banking industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. For example, many of our larger competitors have in the past provided bridge lending and equity participation and otherwise committed their own capital to facilitate transactions. The ability to provide financing is an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and if this trend continues, it would adversely affect us competitively because we do not regularly provide such financing. Additionally, these broader, more robust investment banking and financial services platforms may be more appealing to investment banking professionals than our business, making it more difficult for us to recruit new employees and retain those we have. If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny and enforcement activity over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. The financial services industry has experienced increased scrutiny and enforcement activity from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, FINRA, NYSE, NFA, NASDAQ, HUD, the state securities commission and state attorneys general. This regulatory environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by Congress, individual state legislatures, the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets, such as the Dodd-Frank legislation, as well as proposals that have been made both domestically and internationally, including additional capital and liquidity requirements. For example, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Moreover, penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations, examinations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to routine audits by FINRA and the NFA. If these audits result in any adverse findings by FINRA or the NFA, we may incur fines or other censure. In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries receive inquiries and subpoenas from the SEC, state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations. The Company does not always know the purpose behind these communications or the status or target of any related investigation. The responses to these communications have in the past resulted in the Company and/or its subsidiaries 17 Table of Contents being cited for regulatory deficiencies, although to date these communications have not had a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts or perceived conflicts of interests. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Extensive regulation of public companies in the U.S. could reduce our revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business. Highly publicized financial scandals in past years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets and have prompted Congress and various regulatory agencies to significantly expand corporate governance, internal control over financial reporting and public disclosure requirements. In addition, the Dodd-Frank legislation is leading to more regulation of both public companies and the financial services industry. Any new corporate governance rules may divert a company's attention away from capital markets/investment banking transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our business. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Our cost of funds for borrowing, investment activities and capital raising are affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. and foreign governmental and banking authorities, changes to which are not within our control or wholly predictable. Such changes may also affect the value of the securities we hold. Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years. We also are exposed to the risk of employee misconduct. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information or inappropriate sales techniques or engaging in unauthorized trading or other business. Any of these events could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be fully effective. Risks Relating to our Liquidity and Access to Capital The financial services industry is characterized by transacting in very large sums of money. It is typical for companies like ours to finance their operations in part through credit lines and other short-term financing arrangements. This dynamic gives rise to serious risks in the event that we or another participant in this industry loses a source of financing or otherwise is required to satisfy a substantial payment obligation at a time when adequate capital is not otherwise available to it. The risk factors below describe many of the different varieties of this risk, some specific to us and others facing most or all participants in the financial services industry. For more information, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" herein for more information. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms. Recent failures of financial 18 Table of Contents institutions have often been directly attributable to a very sudden and unexpected need for large amounts of cash, which was not available. Liquidity is of particular importance to our trading business, and perceived liquidity issues may affect the willingness of our clients and counterparties to engage in brokerage transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we are unable to control, such as a general market disruption, negative views about the financial services industry generally or an operational problem that affects our trading clients, third parties or us. We currently do not have committed sources of borrowing through bank financing arrangements. We rely on cash and assets that have historically traded in readily active markets, such as our securities held in inventory, to collateralize and finance our operations generally and to maintain our margin requirements, particularly with our principal clearing firm, Pershing LLC. Our broker-dealer's inventory is financed by our clearing firm and periodically through repurchase agreements. The recent adverse events could result, at a minimum, in a reduction in the amount we are able to borrow with our clearing firm or through the repurchase agreements. Our ability to continue to draw on these forms of liquidity could also be terminated in their entirety. To the extent any such events were to occur, they would have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our sales and trading businesses, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company. In connection with the sale of substantially all of the Clear Point's assets to Homeward, we became subject to certain indemnification provisions, and retain the risk of loan putbacks and other related matters, for loans originated by ClearPoint existing prior to the closing of the Homeward Transaction. On February 14, 2013, the Company and certain of its affiliates, including ClearPoint, entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement ("Purchase Agreement") with Homeward. This transaction closed on February 22, 2013. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Homeward acquired substantially all of ClearPoint's assets and assumed certain liabilities of ClearPoint. The Purchase Agreement provides for customary indemnification provisions. In connection with the indemnification provisions, the Company is required to maintain an escrow account of $5.0 million for a three-year period following the closing date, and the Parent has also provided for a guarantee of ClearPoint's indemnification obligations to Homeward, up to a maximum of an additional $2.5 million. Indemnity claims, if any, will be paid first from the escrow amount, and then, to the extent necessary, drawn upon the guarantee. If during the three-year period following the closing date, the payment of sums from the escrow amount is not permitted, indemnity claims of Homeward will be paid under the guarantee, up to a maximum of $7.5 million. Any amounts paid under the guarantee will be released to the Company from the escrow amount on a dollar-for-dollar basis. ClearPoint is also subject to loan putback risk in connection with representations and warranties made to purchasers of mortgage loans originated prior to the Homeward Transaction. ClearPoint is required to indemnify its loan purchasers under certain circumstances and may be required to repurchase the loans under others. The Company believes its exposure under these indemnifications, under the most likely scenarios, will not have a material adverse impact on the Parent and/or its subsidiaries. This belief is based in large part on recent past experience, as well as the expectation of ClearPoint (or the Parent) ultimately receiving the proceeds from the sale of these loans to finance, or offset, any payments made to the parties to which the guaranties were provided. Regulatory capital requirements may impede our ability to conduct our business. Gleacher Securities and Gleacher Partners, our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which they are members. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain. Gleacher Securities is also subject to the customer reserve requirements in connection with its self-clearing activities associated with its Rates business, which requires a certain amount of cash or qualifying securities to be maintained in a segregated bank account. Any failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could impair our ability to conduct these related business activities. 19 Table of Contents We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to monitor and/or restrict the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. The most restrictive of these regulations is FINRA Rule 4110(c)(2). Under this rule, our broker-dealer subsidiaries may not make an unsecured advance or loan, pay a dividend or otherwise effect a similar distribution to the Parent and/or its affiliates in any rolling 35-calendar-day period, on a net basis, in excess of 10% of their excess "net capital," as defined under Rule 15c3-1 of the Exchange Act, without prior written FINRA approval. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. In addition, because our interests in the Company's subsidiaries consist of equity interests, our rights may be subordinated to the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock currently is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy certain requirements. On June 19, 2012, we received a letter from the listing qualifications department staff of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC notifying the Company that it was not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price per share required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) (the "Rule"). Under NASDAQ's rules, we had until December 17, 2012 to regain compliance with the Rule. We did not regain compliance at that time. On December 18, 2012, the Company received a delisting notification from NASDAQ that it had not regained compliance with the Rule during the applicable period and that the Company's common stock is therefore subject to delisting unless it requested a hearing with NASDAQ's Hearings Panel (the "Panel"). The Company requested a hearing with the Panel which was held on February 21, 2013. At the hearing, the Company presented its plan to regain compliance with the Rule, pursuant to which the Company intends to seek approval for a reverse stock split from stockholders at its 2013 annual stockholders' meeting. The Company requested that the Panel allow it to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market for an additional 180 calendar days from the date of the NASDAQ Staff's delisting notification, the maximum allowed under the NASDAQ Rules, while it executes its plan to implement a reverse stock split. On February 26, 2013, the Company received notice from NASDAQ informing the Company that the Panel had granted the Company's request to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market for an additional 180 calendar days, or until June 17, 2013, subject to the condition that on or before that date the Company shall have evidenced a closing bid price of $1.00 or more for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. The Panel stated that depending on particular facts and circumstances, it may, in its discretion, require that the Company evidence a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of ten consecutive trading days. The Panel also reserved the right to reconsider its decision based on any event, condition or circumstance that might make the Company's continued listing on NASDAQ inadvisable or unwarranted. While we are preparing for the Company's Annual Meeting, there can be no assurance that we will implement the reverse stock split or, even if implemented, that we will be able to regain compliance during the applicable time period set forth above or keep our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market and our trading price remained below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock also might become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which require broker-dealers to disclose additional information in connection with any trade involving a 20 Table of Contents stock defined as a "penny stock." The delisting of our common stock could adversely affect the trading activity, liquidity and price of our common stock, decrease analyst coverage and investor demand and information available concerning trading prices and volume of our common stock and make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, agreements to which we are a party, regulations to which we are subject and provisions of our equity incentive plans could delay or prevent a change in control of our company and entrench current management. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions whose application could have the effect of deterring a takeover or other offer for our securities. Any such actions, together with provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Delaware law and compensation arrangements with our employees, could make efforts by stockholders to change our Board of Directors or management more difficult. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide: •for limitations on the personal liability of our directors to the Company and to our stockholders to the fullest extent permitted by law, which may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors for breach of their duty of care; •that special meetings of stockholders can be called only by our Chairman of the Board, by resolution of the Board of Directors, or by our Chief Executive Officer, President or Secretary (and do not provide our stockholders with the right to call a special meeting or to require the Board of Directors to call a special meeting); and •that subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock or any other series or class of stock set forth in our Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancy on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause or newly created directorships, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, and a director can be removed from office without cause only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock, voting together as a single class. In addition, certain of the Company's compensation arrangements provide for payments or acceleration of equity vesting under certain circumstances involving a change of control of the Company. For example, we have agreements with four of our executive officers that would require us to make cash payments to these executives of approximately $10 million in the aggregate should their employment with the Company terminate under certain circumstances, including an acquisition of the Company or the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or a liquidation of the Company. These arrangements could make an acquisition of the Company more expensive, and therefore less attractive, to a potential acquirer. Also, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless other criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights of our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. In addition, our brokerage businesses are heavily regulated, and some of our regulators require that they approve transactions, that could result in a change of control, as defined by the then-applicable rules of our regulators. The requirement that this approval be obtained may prevent or delay transactions that would result in a change of control. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of several factors, including but not limited to, changes in revenues and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in the market price of our common stock due to factors that relate to the nature of our business generally, including but not limited to changes in our revenues and operating results. Our 21 Table of Contents business, by its nature, does not produce steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which causes fluctuations in our stock price that may be significant. Other factors that have affected, and may further affect, our stock price include the recent adverse events described above under Item 1, "Business—Overview," as well as changes in news related to economic or market events or conditions, changes in market conditions in the financial services industry, including developments in regulation affecting our business, departures of personnel, changes in our business strategies or operations, rumors about us or other participants in our industry, failure to meet the expectations of market analysts, changes in recommendations or outlook by market analysts, and aggressive short selling. Because MatlinPatterson FA Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("MatlinPatterson"), and Eric J. Gleacher each controls a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock, they can exert considerable influence over the Company. As of February 28, 2013, MatlinPatterson controlled approximately 29% of the voting power of our common stock and Mr. Gleacher controlled approximately 11% of the voting power of our common stock. Either MatlinPatterson or Mr. Gleacher, acting together or alone, can exert considerable influence over corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, it may be difficult for other investors to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. In addition, if any of our stockholders, including MatlinPatterson and Mr. Gleacher, that in the aggregate own a majority of our common stock choose to act together, they will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on common stock. These stockholders might choose to take actions that are favorable to them but not to our other stockholders. On February 23, 2013, four of the Company's independent directors notified the Company that they would not seek re-election at the Company's Annual Meeting. In a letter to the Company, these directors stated that they were aware that the opposition of MatlinPatterson and Mr. Gleacher to their re-election meant that it was a virtual certainty that they would not be re-elected. On the same day, the Company received a submission from MatlinPatterson proposing a slate of eight nominees for election to the Company's Board of Directors at the Company's Annual Meeting. Of these eight nominees, three are currently directors of the Company. Any influence that MatlinPatterson is able to exert over these persons (if elected) would increase MatlinPatterson's ability to impact the policies and business operations of the Company. Future sales or anticipated future sales of our common stock in the public market, by us, by MatlinPatterson or Mr. Gleacher, by management, by our employees or by others, could cause our stock price to decline. The sale or anticipated future sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the open market by MatlinPatterson, Mr. Gleacher or others, whether pursuant to a resale prospectus or pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Any such decline could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. We have granted to certain of our stockholders, rights with respect to registration under the Securities Act of the offer and sale of our common stock. These rights include both "demand" registration rights, which require us to file a registration statement if asked by such holders, as well as incidental, or "piggyback," registration rights granting the right to such holders to be included in a registration statement filed by us. As of February 28, 2013, there were approximately 50.0 million shares of our common stock to which these rights pertain. These sales might impact the liquidity of our common stock making it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we may in the future issue additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of, or an expectation of sales of, shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 