Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations face a variety of serious risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and in our other public reports. If any of the following risks actually occur, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary from what we projected and our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risk factors are intended to highlight factors that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. Company Risks Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business in many ways. Our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings and are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and around the world. Difficult market and economic conditions and geopolitical uncertainties have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business and profitability in many ways. The credit crisis of 2008 has resulted in various programs, initiatives and actions being implemented in the U.S. and other markets in order to stabilize the markets, increase liquidity and restore investor confidence. We have experienced increased volumes due to the return of liquidity to the markets as a result of these programs and initiatives. However, it is unclear whether such initiatives will in fact be positive or negative for the financial markets over either the short or long-term. In addition, unfavorable economic or market conditions, such as those experienced in 2008 and 2007, may significantly reduce the volume and size of capital-raising transactions and advisory engagements for acquisitions and dispositions, thereby reducing the demand for our investment banking services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. If the economic recovery is unsustainable, our investment banking revenue could be negatively impacted by a reduction of completed transactions, the backlog of transactions, the decreased size of transactions, and our diminished role in these transactions, resulting in reduced 8 Table of Contents underwriting placement and advisory fees. In the event of extreme market events, such as a recurrence of the global credit crisis, we could incur substantial risk of loss on the value of our securities due to market volatility. Our business is also significantly affected by interest rates, which can change suddenly and unexpectedly. For example, a significant increase in interest rates would decrease the level of customer activity, increase our cost of funding, likely decrease new issues in the debt capital markets, decrease the value of securities owned and create a business environment in which M&A activity decreases. Any of these results would increase our costs or decrease our revenues. The financial services industry and the markets in which we operate are subject to systemic risk that could adversely affect our business and results. Participants in the financial services industry and markets increasely are closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, technology and other relationships. A significant adverse development with one participant (such as a bankruptcy or default) may spread to others and lead to significant concentrated or market-wide problems (such as defaults, liquidity problems or losses) for other participants as was evident during 2008 following the demise of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers. The resulting events had a negative impact on many other industry participants. Systemic risk is inherently difficult to assess and quantify, and its form and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time and could have a negative impact on us. The volume of anticipated investment banking transactions may differ from actual results. Our investment banking revenue is typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. Furthermore, the completion of anticipated investment banking transactions in our pipeline is uncertain and beyond our control. For example, a client’s transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s or counterparty’s business. If parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we earn little or no revenue from the transaction and may incur significant expenses (for example, travel and legal expenses) associated with the transaction. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties, and the number of engagements we have at any given time (and any characterization or description of deal pipelines) is subject to change and may not necessarily result in future revenues. Financing and advisory services engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Even though we work to represent our clients at every stage of their lifecycle, we are typically retained on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or mergers and acquisitions transactions. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements and generate fees from the successful completion of those transactions, our business and results of operations will likely be adversely affected. We have incurred losses in recent periods and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses in recent periods. We recorded a net loss of $17.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, a net loss of $19.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and a net loss of $44.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We may incur losses and further declines in revenue in future periods. While we recorded net income for the year ending December 31, 2009, we may not be able to maintain profitability. If we incur additional losses and are unable to raise funds to finance those losses, our liquidity and ability to operate would be adversely affected. Our recent improvements in financial results may not be representative of future results. We have engaged in a restructuring of our business, which was substantially completed in 2008. In the past year, we have experienced significant improvements in our operating results. These improvements, we believe, have resulted from a combination of our restructuring efforts and market conditions favorable to our realigned business operations, including returning liquidity, a continuing low interest rate environment and increased 9 Table of Contents investor risk tolerance. We may not be able to maintain these profitable results, either because we fail to adequately capitalize on market conditions or because market conditions become adverse to our business model. We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions and investments and personnel. To the extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. In addition, acquisitions may involve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which may dilute our shareholders’ ownership of our firm, or the use of cash or borrowing capacity, which may impact our funding and liquidity following the acquisition. Furthermore, acquisitions could entail a number of risks, including problems with the effective integration of operations, inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships, increased operating costs, exposure to unanticipated liabilities and difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. For instance, in June 2009, we closed our acquisition of Gleacher Partners, Inc. Gleacher Partners has only been a part of our organization for a short period of time and we may not obtain the benefits and growth opportunities anticipated from this acquisition. We may also not be able to integrate successfully with any businesses we acquire in the future. If we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Also, expansions or acquisitions divert our management’s attention from our other operations. In connection with acquisitions, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets. At December 31, 2009, intangibles and goodwill represented approximately $125.0 million. If the acquired businesses do not perform as expected, we may need to record impairment charges against these intangible assets, which would reduce net income, possibly materially. Our ability to hire and retain our senior professionals is critical to the success of our business. In order to operate our business successfully, we rely heavily on our senior professionals. Their personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagements. In particular, Eric J. Gleacher, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Peter J. McNierney, our President and Chief Operating Officer, make important contributions to our business, both as to management and business-generation. Also, like others in this industry, we have key professionals responsible for a disproportionate portion of our clients and business. Any loss of professionals, particularly key senior professionals or groups of related professionals, could impair our ability to secure or successfully complete engagements, result in loss of sales and trading business, materially and adversely affect our revenues and make it more difficult to operate profitably. We encounter intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the investment banking industry as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds. In the past, we have lost investment banking, brokerage, research, and senior professionals and executives. For example, in February 2010, we announced the resignation of Lee Fensterstock, our then Chief Executive Officer, the loss of whom could result in at least a temporary disruption of our business operations. We could lose more personnel in the future. In the future, we may need to hire additional personnel. At that time, there could be a shortage of qualified personnel whom we could hire. This could hinder our ability to expand or cause a backlog in our ability to conduct our business, including the handling of investment banking transactions and the processing of brokerage orders. These personnel challenges could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms. Failures of financial institutions have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity, such as that experienced globally in recent years. Liquidity is of particular importance to our trading business, and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients’ and counterparties’ willingness to engage in brokerage transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption, negative views about the financial services industry generally or an operational problem that affects 10 Table of Contents our trading clients, third parties or us. We currently do not have committed sources of borrowing through bank financing arrangements. We rely on cash and assets that have historically been readily convertible into cash, such as our securities held in inventory, to finance our operations generally and to maintain our margin requirements, particularly with our principal clearing firm, Pershing LLC. Our ability to continue to access these and other forms of capital could be impaired due to circumstances beyond our control, such as a change in the value of our collateral, the willingness or ability of lenders to provide credit, and market disruptions or dislocations. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations and operate our business. In order to obtain funding to grow our business or fund operations in the event of future losses, we may seek to raise capital through the issuance and sale of our common stock or the incurrence of debt. The sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, would result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of debt may subject us to covenants restricting our business activities. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We have made substantial principal investments in our private equity funds and may make additional investments in future funds. These investments are typically made in securities that are not publicly traded and therefore are subject to an inherent liquidity risk. At December 31, 2009, $19.3 million of our total assets consisted of relatively illiquid private equity investments (see Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements). There is a risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in national or international economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions of countries in which investments are made. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of our investments through resale. Even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. Regulatory capital requirements may impede our ability to conduct our business. Broadpoint Capital, Broadpoint AmTech and Gleacher Partners, our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which they are members. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to conduct our core business as a brokerage firm. Pricing pressures may impair the revenues and profitability of our brokerage business. In recent years, we have experienced significant pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in debt and equity trading. In the fixed income markets, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. In the equity markets, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic, algorithmic and direct market access trading, as well as changes in soft dollar practice which has created additional downward pressure on trading margins. We believe that pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. Additionally, in 2008 several prominent financial institutions consolidated, merged or received substantial government assistance. Such events could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, or seeking to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. Certain of our businesses focus principally on specific sectors of the economy, and deterioration in the business environment in these sectors generally or decline in the market for securities of companies within these sectors could materially and adversely affect our business. The majority of our securities owned are related to our Descap business and are comprised of debt securities issued by U.S. government and federal agency obligations. Our holdings in federal agency obligations are subject to prepayment risk which may result in losses or lower returns than originally anticipated. The low interest rate environment and government 11 Table of Contents initiatives to help underwater homeowners refinance their mortgages subject us to prepayment risk. In addition, any future industry developments such as the announcement in February 2010 in which the Government Sponsored Entities (“GSEs”) stated their intention to buy back from its pools at par, substantially all loans 120 days or more delinquent, could have an impact on our trading revenues. Our equities business focuses principally on the technology, aerospace and defense and clean tech sectors. Volatility in the business environment in these sectors, or in the market for securities of companies within these sectors, could substantially affect our financial results and the market value of our common stock. The market for securities in each of our target sectors may also be subject to industry-specific risks. Underwriting transactions, strategic advisory engagements and trading activities in our target sectors represent a significant portion of our business. This concentration exposes us to the risk of substantial declines in revenues in the event of downturns in these sectors of the economy. Any future downturns in our target sectors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. In addition, because our interests in the Company’s subsidiaries consist of equity interests, our rights may be subordinated to the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. Markets have and may continue to experience periods of high volatility. Financial markets are susceptible to unanticipated, severe and rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity, such as the asset price deterioration in the subprime residential mortgage market. Volatile interest rates, falling property prices, and a significant increase in the number of subprime mortgages originated in prior years, contributed to dramatic increases in recent mortgage delinquencies and defaults and led to delinquencies among higher-risk, or subprime, borrowers in the United States. The widespread dispersion of credit risk related to mortgage delinquencies and defaults, through the securitization of mortgage-backed securities, sales of CDOs and the creation of structured investment vehicles, and the broad range of unregulated derivative products, caused banks to reduce their loans to each other or make them at higher interest rates. The economic impact of these problems spread and led to the most significant disruption of the financial markets since the Great Depression and what ultimately amounted to a complete shutdown of the credit markets. While markets have since begun to recover, global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be both volatile and challenging. It is impossible to predict the long-term impact of this financial disruption, or whether it will persist or recur, or to predict the extent to which our markets, products and businesses will be adversely affected. As a result, these conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increase in capital commitments in our trading, underwriting and other businesses increases the potential for significant losses. Until the onset of the recent financial disruption, the trend in capital markets had been toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. For example, in order to win business, investment banks increasingly committed to purchase large blocks of stock of publicly-traded issuers, instead of employing the more traditional marketed underwriting process, in which marketing was typically completed before an investment bank committed to purchase securities for resale. We believe that the wide-spread capital impairment of investment banks resulting from the financial dislocations experienced recently could reverse this trend. However, we cannot predict with certainty how the industry will evolve or the extent to which investment banks will continue to use their own capital as a competitive tool in winning business. As a result, we may be forced to commit greater amounts of capital to facilitate primarily client-driven business. Our underwriting activities may place our capital at risk. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards 12 Table of Contents regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. Our principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss. To facilitate client-trading activities, we maintain securities trading positions in our Descap business. For example, if one of our clients is seeking to acquire a significant position in a particular security, we may accumulate a position in that security prior to selling it to the client. Conversely, we may purchase a block of securities from a client before we have located purchasers for the entire block. We seek to minimize market risk associated with these positions by trading out of them as quickly as possible and/or through hedging strategies. Certain positions, however, may be held by us for longer periods of time while we are seeking buyers for those positions, thereby exposing us to greater risk of loss. We may incur significant losses from these positions due to market fluctuations and volatility. For example, to the extent that we own securities, a downturn in the value of those securities would result in losses from a decline in value. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold securities we do not own, an upturn in value could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to acquire the securities in a rising market. In addition, we may engage in hedging transactions and strategies that may not adequately mitigate losses in our principal positions. If the transactions and strategies are not successful, we could suffer significant losses. Moreover, taking such positions in times of significant volatility can lead to significant unrealized losses, which further impact our ability to borrow to finance such activities. The unprecedented volatility of the markets recently for both fixed income and equity securities, in combination with the credit crisis, caused several well established investment banks to fail or come close to failing. If these conditions continue, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from period to period, which may impact our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant periodic variations in our revenues and results of operations. The very significant variations over the past few years are attributable to our restructuring and the very significant changes in our business operations that resulted. On a “normalized” basis, these variations are attributed in part to trading activity and the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. Our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the interest in the market for the products and services we trade and offer, as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. This risk may be intensified by focusing on companies in specific industries or sectors. For example, our Broadpoint AmTech broker-dealer focuses on companies in the Technology, Aerospace and Defense, and Clean Tech sectors. Concentrating in a specific sector or industry exposes us to volatility in that area that may not affect the broader markets. In addition, our results of operations experience some seasonality, with the third quarter typically being less robust than other quarters, most likely because of a general business activity slow-down in July and August of each year. Increased competition, including from larger firms, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete directly with other investment firms, brokers and dealers, and commercial banks. In addition to competition from firms currently in the securities business, there has been increased competition from others offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations. Recent changes, such as financial institution consolidations and the government’s involvement with financial institutions through the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and other transactions, may provide a competitive advantage for some of our competitors. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses, particularly discounts in large block trades and trading commissions and spreads. In addition, pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple bookrunners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues. We believe we may experience 13 Table of Contents competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future, as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. Many of our competitors in the brokerage and investment banking industries have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger client bases, greater name recognition, more professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with clients than we have. These larger and better-capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the brokerage and investment banking industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. For example, many of our larger competitors have in the past provided “bridge” lending and equity participation and otherwise committed their own capital to facilitate transactions. The ability to provide financing had become, prior to the financial crisis, an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and if this trend continues, it would adversely affect us competitively because we do not provide such financing. Additionally, these broader, more robust investment banking and financial services platforms may be more appealing to investment banking professionals than our business, making it more difficult for us to attract new employees and retain those we have. If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated financial risk. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Our risk hedging strategies also expose us to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform on their obligations. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. In 2008, an unprecedented number of counterparties defaulted on obligations in the financial services community, although we were not directly affected by these defaults. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the variety of instruments, processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex and involve many different types of securities with a wide variety of terms. Our financial, accounting or other data processing systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events such as consolidation of our office space or events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. 14 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties, including our customers, with which we conduct business, whether due to fire, other natural disaster, power or communications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including New York City, NY, Greenwich, CT, and Roseland, NJ, work in close proximity to each other. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer and we may not be able to implement successfully contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could potentially jeopardize our, our clients’ or our counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. To be successful, we must profitably expand our business operations. We face numerous risks and uncertainties as we seek to expand. We seek growth in our business primarily from internal expansion and through acquisitions. If we are successful in expanding our business, there can be no assurance that our financial controls, the level and knowledge of our personnel, our operational abilities, our legal and compliance controls, our risk management procedures and our other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our business and our growth. The ineffectiveness of any of these controls or systems could adversely affect our business and prospects. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny and enforcement activity over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. The financial services industry has experienced increased scrutiny and enforcement activity from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, FINRA, the NYSE, NFA, NASDAQ, the state securities commission and state attorneys general. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the U.S. Congress, the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The Company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to routine audits by FINRA. If, in the course of these audits, any adverse findings are noted by FINRA, we may incur fines or other censure. Periodically, the Company and its subsidiaries also receive inquiries and subpoenas from the SEC, state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations. The Company does not always know the purpose behind these communications or the status or target of any related investigation. The responses to these communications have in the past resulted in the Company and/or its subsidiaries being cited for regulatory deficiencies, although to date these communications have not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have 15 Table of Contents material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. Events since early 2008 affecting the financial services industry and, more generally, the financial markets and the economy as a whole, have led to various proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry in the U.S. and other markets. In 2009, President Obama released draft legislation providing for a comprehensive restructuring of the regulation of financial services firms. Legislators have introduced other draft legislation that will affect the securities industry, including Senators Charles Schumer and Maria Cantwell’s Shareholders’ Bill of Rights Act of 2009. The House of Representatives recently passed the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009, which, among other things, calls for the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency having broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services; creates a new structure for resolving troubled or failed financial institutions; requires certain over-the-counter derivative transactions to be cleared in a central clearinghouse and/or effected on the exchange; revises the assessment base for the calculation of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments; and creates a structure to regulate systemically important financial companies, including providing regulators with the power to require such companies to sell or transfer assets and terminate activities if they determine that the size or scope of activities of the company pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the company or the financial stability of the United States. Other proposals have been made both domestically and internationally, including additional capital and liquidity requirements and limitations on size or types of activity in which banks may engage. It is not clear at this time which of these proposals will be finally enacted into law, what form they will take or what new proposals may be made, as the debate over financial reform continues in 2010. Any such proposals, to the extent they are adopted, could substantially change the way in which we operate, perhaps materially adversely. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts or perceived conflicts of interests. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Extensive regulation of public companies in the U.S. could reduce our revenue and otherwise adversely affect our business. Highly-publicized financial scandals in past years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and have prompted Congress, the SEC, FINRA, the NYSE, NFA and NASDAQ to significantly expand corporate governance, internal control over financial reporting and public disclosure requirements. The financial crisis of 2008 is likely to lead to more regulation of both public companies and the financial services industry. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these requirements, decide to forgo initial public offerings, or list their securities instead on non-U.S. securities exchanges, our equity underwriting business may be adversely affected. In addition, any new corporate governance rules may divert a company’s attention away from capital market transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we could be directly impacted, as a public company, by such changes or developments. Our business is subject to significant credit risk, and the financial difficulty of another prominent financial institution could adversely affect financial markets. In the normal course of our businesses, we are involved in the execution and settlement of various customer transactions and financing of various principal securities transactions. These activities are transacted on a cash, margin or delivery-versus-payment basis and are subject to the risk of counterparty or customer nonperformance. Although transactions are generally collateralized by the underlying security or other securities, we still face the risks associated with changes in the market value of securities that we may be obligated to purchase or have purchased in principal or riskless principal trades where a counterparty or customer fails to perform. During the recent unprecedented volatility of the financial markets, this risk greatly increased. We may also incur credit risk in our derivative 16 Table of Contents transactions to the extent such transactions result in uncollateralized credit exposure to our counterparties. We seek to control the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. In addition, the creditworthiness and financial well-being of many financial institutions may be interdependent because of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. The financial difficulty of one company, therefore, could result in further market illiquidity or financial difficulties with other institutions and may adversely affect the clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, exchanges and other intermediaries with which we conduct business. Such events, therefore, could adversely impact our business. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Our cost of funds for lending, investment activities and capital raising are affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. and foreign governmental and banking authorities, changes to which are not wholly predictable or within our control. Such changes may also affect the value of the securities we hold. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. Due to the nature of the Company’s business, the Company and its subsidiaries are exposed to risks associated with a variety of legal proceedings. These include litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings initiated by private parties and arising from underwriting, financial advisory or other transactional activities, client account activities and employment matters. Third parties who assert claims may do so for monetary damages that are substantial, particularly relative to the Company’s financial position. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. We have in the past, and are currently subject to a variety of litigation arising from our business, most of which we consider to be routine. Risks in our business include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for “fairness opinions” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of trading arrangements. We are also subject to claims by employees alleging discrimination or harassment, among other things, as well as claims arising from disputes with employees. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a brokerage and investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as underwriter to our clients on important underwritings or as advisor for mergers and acquisitions and other transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class action lawsuits against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. See also “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, or inappropriate sales techniques, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not 17 Table of Contents always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our businesses could be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among customers and investors due to difficult geopolitical or market conditions. Our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. Unfavorable economic or geopolitical conditions have and may continue to adversely affect customer and investor confidence, resulting in a substantial industry-wide decline in underwritings and financial advisory transactions. Additionally, market uncertainty and unfavorable economic conditions may result in fewer institutional clients with lesser amounts of assets to trade. In each case, this could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profits. Additionally, unfavorable returns on investment, whether due to general adverse market conditions or otherwise, could adversely affect our ability to retain clients and attract new clients. The impact of the current market and regulatory environment on trading customers may adversely affect our sales and trading commission revenues. A large number of our institutional investor sales and trading customers are also financial institutions, including hedge funds, banks, insurance companies and institutional money managers. The majority of transactions conducted with us relate to financial services companies. The current market environment may cause some of these companies to curtail their investment activities or even cease to do business, which may reduce our commissions. For example, a number of hedge funds have recently been experiencing significant investor requests to withdraw funds in addition to having to curtail certain investing activities as a result of regulatory limitations on short selling. Several hedge fund customers have announced their intention to close. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, agreements to which we are a party, regulations to which we are subject and provisions of our equity incentive plans could delay or prevent a change in control of our company and entrench current management. Our Board of Directors may, if it deems it advisable, take actions that have the effect of deterring a takeover or other offer for our securities. Any such actions, together with provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as New York law, could make more difficult efforts by shareholders to change our Board of Directors or management. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide: • for the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes, with staggered terms such that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year; • for limitations on the personal liability of our directors to the Company and to our shareholders to the fullest extent permitted by law, which may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and may discourage or deter shareholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors for breach of their duty of care; • that special meetings of shareholders can be called only by our President or Chief Executive Officer or by resolution of the Board of Directors and do not provide our shareholders with the right to call a special meeting or to require the Board of Directors to call a special meeting; and • that subject to rights of any series of preferred stock or any other series or class of stock set forth in our Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancy on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause or newly created directorships, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, and a director can be removed from office without cause only by a majority vote of the Board of Directors or by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock, voting together as a single class. 18 Table of Contents In addition, our brokerage businesses are heavily regulated, and some of our regulators require that they approve transactions which could result in a change of control, as defined by the then-applicable rules of our regulators. The requirement that this approval be obtained may prevent or delay transactions that would result in a change of control. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of several factors, including but not limited to, changes in revenues and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in the market price of our common stock due to factors that relate to the nature of our business, including but not limited to changes in our revenues and operating results. Our business, by its nature, does not produce steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which causes fluctuations in our stock price that may be significant. Other factors that have affected, and may further affect, our stock price include changes in news related to economic or market events or conditions, changes in market conditions in the financial services industry, including developments in regulation affecting our business, failure to meet the expectations of market analysts, changes in recommendations or outlook by market analysts, and aggressive short selling similar to that experienced in the financial industry in 2008. Future sales or anticipated future sales of our common stock in the public market, by us, by MatlinPatterson, by management, or by others, could cause our stock price to decline. We may in the future issue additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series, and therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of, or an expectation of sales of, shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. In addition, the sale or anticipated future sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the open market by MatlinPatterson or others, whether pursuant to a resale prospectus or pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Any such decline in our stock price could impair our ability to raise capital in the future through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. We have granted to several of our significant shareholders and certain others rights with respect to registration under the Securities Act of the offer and sale of our common stock. These rights include both “demand” rights, which require us to file a registration statement if asked by such holders, as well as incidental, or “piggyback,” rights granting the right to such holders to be included in a registration statement filed by us. As of February 28, 2010, there were approximately 52.5 million shares of our common stock to which these rights pertain. These sales might impact the liquidity of our common stock making it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We expect to retain all future earnings, if any, for investment in our business. Because MatlinPatterson FA Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“MatlinPatterson”) and Eric J. Gleacher, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chairman of our Board of Directors, each controls a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock, they can exert significant influence over the Company. As of February 28, 2010, MatlinPatterson controlled approximately 28 percent of the voting power of our common stock and Eric J. Gleacher controlled approximately 11 percent of the voting power of our common stock. Either MatlinPatterson or Mr. Gleacher, acting alone, can exert significant influence over corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. As a result, it may be difficult for other investors to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. 19 Table of Contents In addition, if any of our shareholders, including MatlinPatterson and Mr. Gleacher, that in the aggregate own a majority of our common stock choose to act together, they will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on common stock. Furthermore, they would have the power to prevent or cause a change in control, and could take other actions that might be favorable to them but not to our other shareholders. We are no longer a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. As a result, we are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements and we may be delisted if we fail to comply. From our recapitalization in 2007 until June 2009, we operated as a “controlled company,” which allowed us to elect to not comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Following the consummation of the Gleacher transaction on June 5, 2009, MatlinPatterson owned less than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, and therefore we ceased to be a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules. In order to comply with the NASDAQ corporate governance rules, we have appointed additional independent directors to our committees. Currently, our Audit Committee and Committee Directors and Corporate Governance are composed entirely of independent directors, and our Executive Compensation Committee is composed of a majority of independent directors. Our Executive Compensation Committee is composed of three independent directors and one director whom we consider not to be independent. Although NASDAQ rules generally require a compensation committee to be wholly independent, there is an exception, that may be claimed for up to two years, that we believe we fall under. Consequently, we believe we are fully compliant with the NASDAQ requirement related to the composition of our Executive Compensation Committee. We are actively working to be in compliance with the NASDAQ corporate governance requirement that a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors by the required phase-in date, but have not yet achieved that status. If we violate the NASDAQ requirements, we may be delisted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 