Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations face a variety of serious risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and in our other public reports. If any of the following risks actually occur, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary from what we projected and our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risk factors are intended to highlight factors that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. We have organized the risk factor discussion below around certain categories, although there is some overlap of specific risk factor disclosure between categories. The order of the categories set forth below, and the order of particular risk factors within each category, is not necessarily indicative of the likelihood of the occurrence of any of the risks described below or the magnitude of the effect on us in the event any such risks should occur. Risks Common to Companies in the Financial Services Industry Operating in the financial services industry exposes us to particular risks unlike those attendant to operating in other segments of the economy. We summarize the most significant of these risks below. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business in many ways. Our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings and are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic and geopolitical conditions generally, both in the U.S. and around the world. Recent events relating to the European debt crisis and the debt ceiling debates in Congress, combined with ongoing uncertainties about the global economic outlook, have led to volatile global markets and challenging economic conditions. Market volatility can lead to unanticipated, severe and rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Market uncertainty and unfavorable economic conditions may also cause clients to curtail their investment activities or even cease doing business. Such adverse conditions could also negatively affect our ability to retain our clients and attract new clients. It is impossible to predict the long-term impact of this market and economic environment, whether it will persist or recur, or the extent to which our markets, products and businesses will be adversely affected. The passing and implementation of Dodd-Frank has and will continue to result in various programs, initiatives and actions being implemented in the U.S. and other markets in order to stabilize the markets, increase liquidity and restore investor confidence. It is unclear whether such initiatives will in fact be positive or negative for the financial markets over either the short or long-term. If the economic recovery remains unstable, our operations, including sales and trading and investment banking could be negatively impacted by a reduction of trading volumes, continued tightening of spreads, fewer completed investment banking transactions, a reduced backlog and decreased size of transactions, and our diminished role in these businesses, resulting in reduced principal transactions and investment banking revenues. In the event of extreme market events, such as a recurrence of the global credit crisis, we could incur substantial loss on the value of our securities due to market volatility. In addition, the activities related to our residential mortgage banking initiative associated with our acquisition of ClearPoint, a residential non-depository mortgage lender, may also be impacted as a result of the influence of Dodd-Frank in re-shaping the mortgage origination industry. Our business is also significantly affected by interest rates, which can change suddenly and unexpectedly. The Federal Reserve ("Fed") continues to implement programs designed to further stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates low. However, the long-term impact of such programs remains uncertain. These programs, as well as other possible changes to the Fed's monetary policy, could significantly impact interest rates. An increase in interest rates could decrease the level of customer activity, increase our cost of funding, likely decrease new issues in the debt capital markets, 8 Table of Contents decrease the value of securities owned by us and create a business environment in which mergers and acquisitions activity decreases. In addition, an increase in interest rates could also result in lower mortgage loan origination volumes in our residential mortgage loan origination business. Any or all of these conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry and the markets in which we operate are subject to systemic risk that could adversely affect our business and results. Participants in the financial services industry and markets increasingly are closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, technology and other relationships. A significant adverse development with one participant (such as a bankruptcy or default) may spread to others and lead to significant concentrated or market-wide problems (such as defaults, liquidity problems or losses) for other participants. This was evident during the credit crisis of 2008-2009 and the resulting events had a negative impact on many other industry participants. While the Dodd-Frank legislation was passed with a primary purpose of avoiding another financial crisis as a result of systemic risk, it remains uncertain whether the legislation will be effective. In addition, the legislation may not be sufficient to mitigate financial market turmoil as a result of possible future unanticipated market bubbles. Systemic risk is inherently difficult to assess and quantify, and its form and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time and could have a negative impact on us. The volume of anticipated investment banking transactions may differ from actual results. Our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the completion of a transaction. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that are not successfully completed. Furthermore, the completion of investment banking transactions in our pipeline is uncertain and beyond our control. For example, a client's transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client's or counterparty's business. If parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we earn little or no revenue but may incur significant expenses (for example, travel and legal expenses) associated with the transaction. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and third parties many of which have no interest in, or are adverse to, the completion of a given transaction. The number of transactions for which we have been engaged is subject to change and is not necessarily indicative of future revenues. Financing and advisory services engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Even though we work to represent our clients at every stage of their lifecycle, we are typically retained on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets, mergers and acquisitions, or advisory engagements. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements and generate fees from the successful completion of those transactions, our business and results of operations will likely be adversely affected. Pricing pressures may negatively impact the revenues and profitability of our brokerage business as well as our residential mortgage lending business. In recent years, we have experienced pricing pressures on commissions and trading margins. Margins on the residential mortgage lending activities of ClearPoint also continue to compress in light of the recent challenging conditions in the mortgage industry, including litigations related to foreclosure and servicing practices brought against major participants in the market and less competition as certain of these participants have cut back or shut down their operation. The recent passing of the Dodd-Frank legislation may result in further pricing pressures and even lower margins. We believe that pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as 9 Table of Contents institutional investors continue to implement cost-reduction strategies, including reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions, spreads or other margins. Increase in capital commitments in our trading, underwriting and other businesses increases the potential for significant losses. Capital commitment needs in the capital markets industry may result in larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. For example, in order to win business, investment banks commit to purchase large blocks of stock of publicly-traded issuers, instead of employing the more traditional marketed underwriting process, in which marketing was typically completed before an investment bank committed to purchase securities for resale. Capital impairment of investment banks resulting from the financial dislocations experienced recently could reverse this trend. However, we cannot predict with certainty how the industry will evolve or the extent to which investment banks will continue to use their own capital as a competitive tool in winning business. Relative to many of our competitors, we have limited access to additional capital, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result, we may be forced to commit greater amounts of capital to facilitate our business activities. Our underwriting activities may place our capital at risk. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. Increased competition, including from larger firms, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete directly with other investment firms, brokers and dealers, and commercial banks, many of which are much larger. In addition to competition from firms currently in the securities business, there has been increased competition from others offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. We have experienced price competition in our MBS/ABS & Rates and Corporate Credit divisions, particularly in the form of compression in trading commissions and spreads. In addition, pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future, as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. Many of our competitors in the brokerage and investment banking industries have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger client bases, greater name recognition, more professionals to serve their clients' needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with clients than we have. These larger and better-capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the brokerage and investment banking industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. For example, many of our larger competitors have in the past provided bridge lending and equity participation and otherwise committed their own capital to facilitate transactions. The ability to provide financing is an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and if this trend continues, it would adversely affect us competitively because we do not regularly provide such financing. Additionally, these broader, more robust investment banking and financial services platforms may be more appealing to investment banking professionals than our business, making it more difficult for us to attract new employees and retain those we have. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny and enforcement activity over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. The financial services industry has experienced increased scrutiny and enforcement activity from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, FINRA, NYSE, NFA, NASDAQ, HUD, the state securities commission and state attorneys general. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by Congress, individual state legislatures, the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets, such as the Dodd-Frank legislation, as well as proposals that have been made both domestically and internationally, including additional capital and liquidity requirements. For example, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to routine audits by FINRA and the NFA. If these audits result in any adverse findings by FINRA or the NFA, we may incur fines or other censure. In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries receive inquiries and subpoenas from the SEC, state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations. The Company does not always know the purpose behind these communications or the status or target of any related investigation. The responses to these communications have in the past resulted in the Company and/or its subsidiaries being cited for regulatory deficiencies, although to date these communications have not had a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts or perceived conflicts of interests. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Extensive regulation of public companies in the U.S. could reduce our revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business. Highly publicized financial scandals in past years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and have prompted Congress and various regulatory agencies to significantly expand corporate governance, internal control over financial reporting and public disclosure requirements. In addition, the Dodd-Frank legislation is leading to more regulation of both public companies and the financial services industry. Any new corporate governance rules may divert a company's attention away from capital markets/investment banking transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. These factors, in addition to adopted or 11 Table of Contents proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we could be directly impacted, as a public company, by such changes or developments. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Our cost of funds for borrowing, investment activities and capital raising are affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. and foreign governmental and banking authorities, changes to which are not within our control or wholly predictable. Such changes may also affect the value of the securities we hold. Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years. We also are exposed to the risk of employee misconduct. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, or inappropriate sales techniques, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be fully effective. Risks Relating to our Liquidity and Access to Capital The financial services industry is characterized by transacting in very large sums of money. It is typical for companies like ours to finance their operations in part through credit lines and other short-term financing arrangements. This dynamic gives rise to serious risks in the event that we or another participant in this industry loses a source of financing or otherwise is required to satisfy a substantial payment obligation at a time when adequate capital is not available to it. The risk factors below describe many of the different varieties of this risk, some specific to us and others facing most or all participants in the financial services industry. For more information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources." Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms. Recent failures of financial institutions have often been directly attributable to a very sudden and unexpected need for large amounts of cash, which was not available. Liquidity is of particular importance to our trading business, and perceived liquidity issues may affect the willingness of our clients and counterparties to engage in brokerage transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we are unable to control, such as a general market disruption, negative views about the financial services industry generally or an operational problem that affects our trading clients, third parties or us. We currently do not have committed sources of borrowing through bank financing arrangements. We rely on cash and assets that have historically been readily convertible into cash, such as our securities held in inventory, to finance our operations generally and to maintain our margin requirements, particularly with our principal clearing firm, Pershing LLC. Our broker-dealer's inventory is financed by our clearing firm and periodically through repurchase agreements. The residential mortgage banking activities conducted by our ClearPoint subsidiary are financed through mortgage warehouse lines of credit, which include restrictive covenants that may result in limitations on such borrowings. Our ability to continue to access these and other forms of liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances beyond our control, such as a change in the value of our collateral, the willingness or ability of lenders to provide credit, and market disruptions or dislocations. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations and operate our business. In order to obtain funding to grow our business or fund operations in the event of future losses, we may seek to raise capital through the issuance and sale of our common stock or the incurrence of debt. The sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, could result in significant dilution to our stockholders, given the current low market price of our common stock. The incurrence of debt may 12 Table of Contents subject us to covenants restricting our business activities. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ClearPoint subsidiary has encountered recent liquidity constraints, and as a result we have guaranteed certain of ClearPoint's obligations. In recent months, ClearPoint has experienced liquidity constraints. These have resulted principally from the rapid expansion of ClearPoint's business coupled with an unanticipated slow-down in loan purchases made by one of ClearPoint's principal loan purchasers. These factors have combined to lengthen the period of time during which ClearPoint's loan originations have persisted on its warehouse credit lines. As further discussed under "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Liquidity and Capital Resources," if ClearPoint does not sell loans it originates from funds advanced under its warehouse lines of credit within certain periods of time, the lenders can incrementally "curtail," or reduce, such advances. If and when curtailments are made, ClearPoint is required to repay the curtailed amounts to the lenders prior to receiving any proceeds from the sale of the loans. ClearPoint's recent liquidity constraints have been compounded by curtailment payments it has been required to make after its loan originations dwelled for longer periods of time on its warehouse lines. In order to facilitate the February 2012 purchase by Citibank of approximately $56 million of loans originated by ClearPoint (thereby reducing curtailment risk and making available additional capacity under the warehouse lines), the Parent guaranteed certain of ClearPoint's obligations relating to the Citibank purchase. In general, ClearPoint may be obligated to repurchase certain loans if certain conditions regarding documentation, underwriting and similar matters are not resolved favorably within 30 days of the purchase (subject to extensions). Also, if any loan with unresolved conditions falls into borrower default (defined as any payment more than 30 days past due), Citibank may require ClearPoint to repurchase such loan. The Parent guaranteed payment to Citibank for any required repurchase if ClearPoint does not itself make such repurchase. As of March 16, 2012, the conditions relating to $12.5 million of these loans had been favorably resolved. In addition, the Parent has guaranteed certain ClearPoint obligations relating to potential curtailment payments to two of its warehouse lenders. These guaranties, relate to two pools of loans—those in the warehouse on or about February 29, 2012 (the "legacy loans"), and new loans funded by the warehouse lenders thereafter (the "new loans"). The legacy loans had an initial maximum exposure of $114 million, assuming 100% curtailment, and without giving effect to the realizable value of the loans. The curtailment obligations with respect to a loan increase incrementally based on the period of time the loan persists on the warehouse line, with 100% curtailment required if the loan has not been sold 90 days after funding. As of March 16, 2012 approximately $51.6 million of these legacy loans had been sold to third parties. In connection with waivers provided by these lenders in March 2012 regarding defaults under their respective warehouse lines (as further discussed within Note 29 "Subsequent Events" within the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form-10K), the Parent's exposure to new loans under these guaranties increased, and currently ranges from 5% to 100% of, in general, the lesser of the market value or the principal amount of such loans, depending on the length of time such loans persist on the warehouse line, with 100% curtailment of the amount advanced required 90 days after funding. Total exposure at March 16, 2012 assuming 100% curtailment and without giving effect to the realizable value of the related loans, was $49.5 million. Loans funded by ClearPoint since its acquisition on January 3, 2011 through March 16, 2012 totaled approximately $2.1 billion. Of these loans, approximately $20.8 million (1%) experienced a full curtailment and approximately $5.3 million of these loans have not yet been sold. At March 16, 2012, there were approximately $136.0 million loans aged less than 30 days on the warehouse lines and approximately $1.9 million of loans within 10 days of full curtailment. While full curtailment is a possibility, the Parent would seek to recoup any required payments under the guaranties through the proceeds from the sale of the associated mortgage loans. However, if payments become due to the 13 Table of Contents lenders or Citibank at a time when the related loans cannot be sold quickly for an amount approximating their full principal amount, or at all, whether as a result of a dislocation in the financial markets (especially those markets for residential mortgage loans or securities backed by residential mortgage loans), purchaser delays or otherwise, both ClearPoint and the Parent could face a liquidity shortfall and may not be able to perform as required under the agreements, and/or could incur losses from the sale of the loans at prices below the market value of the loans in order to meet these obligations. Due to the fact that Citibank must internally review ClearPoint's responses to the various conditions, we are not in complete control of the rate at which the conditions on the loans are satisfied and as a result cannot assure you that all loans will be cleared when and as required. As a result, these obligations, depending upon their magnitude, could have a material and adverse effect on the Parent's and/or its subsidiaries financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a more detailed description of these matters. Our residential mortgage lending business currently relies on a limited number of warehouse lines of credit, each of which expires relatively soon. As of December 31, 2011, ClearPoint had access to three warehouse lines of credit with a total capacity of $250 million and a total committed capacity of $100 million. One of these lines was scheduled to expire on March 10, 2012. The lender elected not to renew the line and agreed instead to a 120-day extension. ClearPoint may make requests for funding under this line for the first 60 days of the extension, with the available amount which ClearPoint may request decreasing, ultimately to zero at the sixtieth day. However, the lender is not committed to agree to any particular funding request. ClearPoint must repay all amounts outstanding under this line upon expiration of the line (as extended). At March 16, 2012, ClearPoint had advances of approximately $56.4 million outstanding under this line and during the period January 1, 2012 through March 16, 2012 has sold loans off this line at an average pace of $2.4 million per day. ClearPoint is currently limiting the use of this warehouse line for future fundings, but as mentioned above, does have the availability to make requests for funding under this line for the first 60 days of the extension. There can be no assurance that the rate at which ClearPoint sells loans off the line continues at the same rate as prior to March 16, 2012. ClearPoint's two other warehouse lines expire in September 2012, and one, in the amount of $100 million, can be terminated at will by the lender on 90-days' notice. These lines are discretionary facilities and, as such neither lender under these lines is committed to fund any particular financing request. If ClearPoint is unable to replace borrowing capacity when warehouse lines expire or the lenders do not continue to fund requests, it will be required to reduce its loan origination activities, and may not be able to satisfy its unfunded loan commitments. See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a more detailed description of these matters. If ClearPoint is unable to sell the loans financed with the extended warehouse line, it would face a variety of potential adverse financial repercussions. Selling the loans financed under the extended warehouse line on a timely basis and at a price approximating their face value is critical to ClearPoint. If it is unable to do so, and is unable to otherwise finance its payment obligations under the extended warehouse line, it could incur significant losses, may not be able to satisfy its unfunded loan commitments, and could be in default under that warehouse line, which would cause a "cross default" under ClearPoint's other warehouse lines. This would give the lenders under those warehouse lines the right to terminate those facilities and require immediate payment of all amounts then advanced to ClearPoint. If ClearPoint is unable to satisfy its payment obligations under the extended warehouse line, it is highly unlikely that it would be able to satisfy its obligations under the other warehouse lines if the lenders require that the amounts outstanding be paid immediately. See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a more detailed description of these matters. 14 Table of Contents ClearPoint's warehouse credit lines contain restrictive covenants and repayment provisions that could adversely affect its business. ClearPoint's warehouse lines of credit contain various covenants, which, among other things, require ClearPoint to maintain: •a minimum tangible net worth ratio, •a maximum leverage ratio, •certain levels of profits/losses, and •a minimum level of liquid assets. If ClearPoint fails to comply with these covenants, the lenders could declare the credit lines to be in default and require the payment of all amounts then outstanding under the lines. Also, the applicable agreements contain "cross default" provisions, so that a default under one agreement triggers a default under the others. In October 2011, ClearPoint breached certain of these covenants, for which its warehouse line lenders have provided waivers. Concurrent with the extension of the extended warehouse line described above, the lender issued a notice of default of certain of ClearPoint's financial covenants relating to ClearPoint's liquidity from October 2011 to March 2012 and levels of profits/losses in February 2012, along with a simultaneous waiver, but required more restrictive curtailment provisions and financing terms. In February 2012, ClearPoint was also in default of covenants related to liquidity and profits/losses. These defaults resulted in cross-defaults under each other warehouse line. ClearPoint obtained waivers from each of the lenders covering these defaults and cross-defaults. In connection with waivers granted by two of the lenders, the Parent's exposure under its curtailment guaranties increased to range from 5% to 100% of the lesser of, in general, the market value or the principal amount of such loans, depending on the length of time such loans persist on the warehouse line. As listed above, ClearPoint is required to maintain certain levels of profits/losses to remain in compliance under its warehouse lines. ClearPoint has incurred losses since its acquisition and is engaged in a remediation plan that will, at least temporarily, make it probable that ClearPoint will not achieve profitability levels that satisfy its financial covenants. Assuming ClearPoint is unable to right size its business in a manner that achieves profitability, and if it is unable to amend the profitability covenants, it will breach these covenants in future periods. If ClearPoint is unable to comply with the terms of its warehouse credit lines, these lines could be terminated, potentially resulting in the acceleration of all amounts due under the lines, as well as the incurrence of losses and/or liability for ClearPoint and the Parent (under its guaranties). See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a more detailed description of these matters. ClearPoint relies on a limited number of investors to purchase its loan originations. Currently, ClearPoint sells loans to a limited number of loan purchasers which exposes it to several risks, principally those related to its warehouse lines. If investors do not purchase ClearPoint loan originations at the pace anticipated, loans in the warehouse would age more than expected, potentially requiring curtailment payment obligations. Also, ClearPoint would have less borrowing capacity, which could adversely impact ClearPoint's ability to satisfy its unfunded loan commitments and/or decrease its ability to originate new loans. Either of these results could materially and adversely affect ClearPoint, and significant curtailment payments may require payments by the Parent under the guaranties described above. While significant curtailment payments are a possibility, during the period January 1, 2012 through March 16, 2012, the maximum amount of cash held by the lenders pursuant to curtailments was approximately $13.1 million (and would have been approximately $17.4 million under the terms of the current curtailment schedules). 15 Table of Contents If ClearPoint is unable to satisfy its obligations under its unfunded loan commitments, it could be subject to adverse private-party and regulatory exposure. ClearPoint has no committed sources of financing. If its current warehouse line lenders refuse to accept requests by ClearPoint for funding, and it is unable to find alternative sources of financing to replace the reduced borrowing capacity upon the expiration of one of its warehouse lines, it may not be able to satisfy its unfunded loan commitments. In such an event, ClearPoint would be in breach under these commitments and could be held liable for significant damages. Moreover, failure to fund these commitments would violate consumer protection laws and regulations in the states in which ClearPoint operates, subjecting it to the risk of state-imposed fines, penalties and other censures. ClearPoint is subject to the risk of loan putbacks. ClearPoint is subject to loan putback risk in connection with representations and warranties made to purchasers of its originated mortgage loans. ClearPoint is required to indemnify its loan purchasers under certain circumstances and may be required to repurchase the loans under others. ClearPoint is indemnified for certain mortgage lending activities arising prior to its acquisition by the Company on January 3, 2011. Regulatory capital requirements may impede our ability to conduct our business. Gleacher Securities and Gleacher Partners, our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which they are members. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain. Gleacher Securities is also subject to the customer reserve requirements in connection with its self-clearing activities associated with its Rates business, which requires a certain amount of cash or qualifying securities to be maintained in a segregated bank account. In addition, ClearPoint, a wholly owned subsidiary is subject to the HUD minimum net worth requirements imposed by state and federal regulatory agencies. Any failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could impair our ability to conduct these related business activities. We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to monitor and/or restrict the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. ClearPoint is also limited in its ability to pay dividends or satisfy intercompany obligations under the contractual terms of its secured borrowing facilities. In addition, because our interests in the Company's subsidiaries consist of equity interests, our rights may be subordinated to the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. Other Risks Specific to Our Business In addition to the business risks described above, we are subject to a variety of risks specific to our business, as described below. Our business is subject to significant credit risk, and the financial difficulty of another prominent financial institution could adversely affect financial markets. In the normal course of our businesses, we are involved in the execution and settlement of various customer transactions and financing of various principal securities transactions. These activities are transacted on a cash or delivery-versus-payment basis and are subject to the risk of counterparty or customer nonperformance. Although transactions are generally collateralized by the underlying security or other securities, we still face the risks associated with changes in the market value of securities that we may be obligated to purchase or have purchased in principal or riskless principal trades where a counterparty or customer fails to perform. We may also incur credit risk in our derivative transactions to the extent such transactions result in 16 Table of Contents uncollateralized credit exposure to our counterparties. We seek to control the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and periodically monitoring credit limits, collateral and transaction levels. In addition, the creditworthiness and financial well-being of many financial institutions may be interdependent because of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. The financial difficulty of one company, therefore, could result in further market illiquidity or financial difficulties with other institutions and may adversely affect the clearing organizations, clearing houses, banks, exchanges and other intermediaries with which we conduct business. Such events, therefore, could adversely impact our business. Our assets include illiquid investments in private equity funds, which we may not be able to monetize in the near term or at all. We have made principal investments in private equity funds and may make additional investments in future funds. These investments are typically made in securities that are not publicly traded and therefore are subject to an inherent liquidity risk. At December 31, 2011, $18.3 million of our total assets consisted of relatively illiquid private equity investments. (Refer to Note 10 within the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.) Our interests in these private equity funds are susceptible to changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in national or international economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions of countries in which investments are made. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of the investments through resale. Even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully implement our new strategic plan. In August 2011, we announced the implementation of a new strategic plan. Our new strategic plan is designed to maximize revenue and rationalize expenses through a number of new initiatives. We expect to achieve substantial benefit from the implementation of our new strategic plan, but we cannot guarantee that we will obtain these benefits. If we are unable to successfully execute the elements of our strategic plan, our revenues, operating results and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we successfully implement our plan, there is no assurance that our revenues, operating results and profitability will improve. We have incurred losses in recent periods and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses in recent periods. While we recorded net income for the year ended December 31, 2009, we have recorded a net loss of $82.1 million and $20.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The incurrence of losses in future periods could result in an impairment of our deferred tax assets (approximately $30.8 million at December 31, 2011) as their realization is ultimately dependent upon the Company's ability to produce sufficient future taxable income prior to expiration. In addition, if we incur additional losses and are unable to raise funds to finance those losses, our liquidity and ability to operate would be adversely affected. We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions and investments and personnel. To the extent that we make acquisitions or enter into business combinations, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. The acquisition or combination might not provide sufficient earnings power or other value to justify its cost. Moreover, we could experience expensive and time consuming problems integrating the relevant operations, accounting and data processing systems, management controls, relationships with clients and business partners and other systems and operations of the acquired or combined business. In addition, acquisitions may involve the issuance of shares of our common stock, which would dilute our stockholders' ownership of our firm, or we may borrow funds or use cash on hand, which may impact our funding and liquidity. Furthermore, acquisitions entail a number of risks or other problems, including the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships, increased operating costs, exposure to unanticipated liabilities and difficulties in realizing projected 17 Table of Contents efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. If we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Also, expansions or acquisitions divert our management's attention from our other operations. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded goodwill and intangible impairment charges of $80.2 million in connection with our realignment of our investment banking division and $14.3 million as a result of exiting the Equities business, which is now a discontinued operation. (Refer to Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 26 within the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.) These intangibles resulted from the Gleacher Partners, Inc. and American Technology Holdings, Inc. acquisitions, respectively, and the impairment charges reflect underperformance of the acquired businesses. At December 31, 2011, our remaining intangible assets and goodwill was approximately $25.4 million. If the businesses to which these assets are allocated do not perform as expected, we may need to record additional impairment charges related to these assets, which would reduce net income, possibly materially. Our ability to hire and retain our senior professionals is critical to the success of our business. In order to operate our business successfully, we rely heavily on key professionals. Their personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagements. In our industry, it is not uncommon for large groups of professionals in a particular business unit to depart simultaneously, especially if one or more key senior members of that unit are recruited by other firms or terminated. Any loss of professionals, particularly key senior professionals or groups of related professionals, could impair our ability to secure or successfully complete engagements, result in loss of sales and trading business, materially and adversely affect our revenues and make it more difficult to operate profitably. Over the past three years, we have experienced significant turnover of senior management, including multiple chief executive and chief operating officers. Such turnover can result, and has resulted, in temporary disruptions and inefficiencies in our business as we attempt to integrate new senior management within the Company. Senior management turnover could also adversely impact our stock price, our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. We encounter intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the investment banking industry as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds. In the past, we have lost investment banking, brokerage, research, and other senior professionals and executives and we could lose more personnel in the future. We may also need to hire additional personnel. At that time, there could be a shortage of qualified personnel whom we could hire. This could hinder our ability to expand or cause a backlog in our ability to conduct our business, including the handling of investment banking transactions and the processing of brokerage orders. These personnel challenges could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our trading in mortgage backed securities exposes us to prepayment risk. The majority of our securities owned are related to our MBS/ABS & Rates division and are primarily comprised of agency mortgage backed securities. Our holdings in these securities are subject to prepayment risk, which have resulted and may continue to result in losses or lower returns than originally anticipated. The low interest rate environment and government initiatives to help underwater homeowners refinance their mortgages subject us to prepayment risk. In addition, other industry developments such as delinquent loan buy backs at par, or modifications to mortgage loans, including those that may reduce the principal balance owed, could have an adverse impact on our trading revenues. Certain of our businesses focus principally on specific sectors of the economy, and deterioration in the business environment in these sectors generally or decline in the market for securities of companies within these sectors could materially and adversely affect our business. Our investment banking business focuses principally on the aerospace and defense, general industrials, real estate, technology, media and 18 Table of Contents telecom, and sponsor coverage industries. Volatility in the business environment in these sectors, or in the market for securities of companies within these sectors, could substantially affect our financial results and the market value of our common stock. The market for securities in each of our target sectors may also be subject to industry-specific risks. Underwriting transactions, strategic advisory engagements and trading activities in our target sectors represent a significant portion of our business. This concentration exposes us to the risk of substantial declines in revenues in the event of downturns in these sectors of the economy. Any future downturns in our target sectors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss. We maintain securities trading positions primarily in our MBS/ABS & Rates division and may incur significant losses from these positions due to market fluctuations. For example, to the extent that we own securities, a downturn in the value of those securities would result in losses from a decline in value. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold securities we do not own, an upturn in value could expose us to potentially unlimited losses. We seek to minimize market risk associated with these positions by trading out of them as quickly as possible and/or through hedging strategies. Certain positions, however, may be held by us for longer periods of time while we are seeking buyers for those positions, thereby exposing us to greater risk of loss. The risk of loss is accentuated, both in terms of likelihood and amount, in times of market volatility such as experienced over the past few years. In addition, our hedging strategies may not successfully mitigate losses in our principal positions. If our hedging strategies are not successful, we could suffer significant losses. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from period to period, which may impact our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant periodic variations in our revenues and results of operations. The variations over the past few years are attributable to the current economic conditions, continued investment in our business to achieve desired scale, as well as our recent realignment of our investment banking division and our decision to exit the Equities business in August 2011. In addition, these variations are also attributed in part to trading activity and the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. Our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the interest in the market for the products and services we trade and offer, as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. This risk may be intensified by focusing on companies in specific industries or sectors. For example, our investment banking segment focuses on companies in the aerospace and defense, general industrials, real estate, technology, media and telecom, and sponsor coverage industries. Concentrating in a specific sector or industry exposes us to volatility in that area that may not affect the broader markets. In addition, our results of operations experience some seasonality, with the third quarter typically being less robust than other quarters, because of typical summer month activity slow-down in July and August of each year for our sales and trading operations, as well as the impact of the holiday season on fourth quarter activity for both our sales and trading operations and ClearPoint. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated financial risk. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Our risk-hedging strategies also expose us to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform on their obligations. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. Although we periodically review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other 19 Table of Contents institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the variety of instruments, processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur significant losses. Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex and involve many different types of securities with a wide variety of terms. Our financial, accounting or other data processing systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties, including our customers, with which we conduct business, whether due to fire, other natural disaster, power or communications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including New York, NY and Roseland, NJ, work in close proximity to each other. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer and we may not be able to implement successfully contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could potentially jeopardize our clients' or our counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of our clients, our counterparties or third parties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We seek to manage these risks through our Business Continuity Plan. See Item 1 under the heading "Business Continuity" for additional information. Our business strategy includes expansion of our business operations. We face numerous risks and uncertainties as we seek to expand. We seek growth in our business primarily from internal expansion and through opportunistic acquisitions of attractive targets. If we are successful in expanding our business, there can be no assurance that our financial controls, the level and knowledge of our personnel, our operational abilities, our legal and compliance controls, our risk management procedures and our other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our business and our growth. For example, the rapid growth of our ClearPoint business contributed significantly to the liquidity problems 20 Table of Contents described above under "Risks Relating to our Liquidity and Access to Capital." The ineffectiveness of any of the controls or systems described above could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. Due to the nature of the Company's business, the Company and its subsidiaries are exposed to risks associated with a variety of legal proceedings. These include litigations, arbitrations and other proceedings initiated by private parties and arising from underwriting, financial advisory, securities trading or other transactional activities, client account activities and employment matters. Third parties who assert claims may do so for monetary damages that are substantial, particularly relative to the Company's financial position. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. We have been in the past, and are currently, subject to a variety of litigation arising from our business, most of which we consider to be routine. Risks in our business include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for "fairness opinions" and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of trading arrangements. We are also subject to claims by employees alleging discrimination, harassment or wrongful discharge, among other things, and seeking recoupment of compensation claimed (whether for cash or forfeited equity awards) and other damages. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a brokerage and investment banking firm, we depend on our reputation to help attract and retain clients. As a result, an unsatisfied client could be more damaging to us than if we operated in other industries. Moreover, our role as underwriter on underwritings or as advisor for mergers and acquisitions and other transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering "fairness opinions" in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including stockholders of our clients who could bring securities class action lawsuits against us. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. See also—Item 3—"Legal Proceedings." Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, agreements to which we are a party, regulations to which we are subject and provisions of our equity incentive plans could delay or prevent a change in control of our company and entrench current management. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions whose application could have the effect of deterring a takeover or other offer for our securities. Any such actions, together with provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Delaware law, could make more difficult, efforts by stockholders to change our Board of Directors or management. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide: •for limitations on the personal liability of our directors to the Company and to our stockholders to the fullest extent permitted by law, which may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors for breach of their duty of care; 21 Table of Contents •that special meetings of stockholders can be called only by our Chairman of the Board, by resolution of the Board of Directors, or by our Chief Executive Officer, President or Secretary (and do not provide our stockholders with the right to call a special meeting or to require the Board of Directors to call a special meeting); and •that subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock or any other series or class of stock set forth in our Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancy on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause or newly created directorships, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, and a director can be removed from office without cause only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock, voting together as a single class. In addition, certain of the Company's compensation arrangements provide for payments or acceleration of equity vesting under certain circumstances involving a change of control of the Company. These arrangements could make an acquisition of the Company more expensive, and therefore less attractive, to a potential acquirer. Also, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless other criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights of our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. In addition, our brokerage businesses are heavily regulated, and some of our regulators require that they approve transactions, which could result in a change of control, as defined by the then-applicable rules of our regulators. The requirement that this approval be obtained may prevent or delay transactions that would result in a change of control. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of several factors, including but not limited to, changes in revenues and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in the market price of our common stock due to factors that relate to the nature of our business, including but not limited to changes in our revenues and operating results. Our business, by its nature, does not produce steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which causes fluctuations in our stock price that may be significant. Other factors that have affected, and may further affect, our stock price include changes in news related to economic or market events or conditions, changes in market conditions in the financial services industry, including developments in regulation affecting our business, failure to meet the expectations of market analysts, changes in recommendations or outlook by market analysts, and aggressive short selling similar to that experienced in the financial industry in 2008. Because MatlinPatterson FA Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("MatlinPatterson") and Eric J. Gleacher, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, each controls a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock, they can exert considerable influence over the Company. As of February 29, 2012, MatlinPatterson controlled approximately 28% of the voting power of our common stock and Eric J. Gleacher controlled approximately 11% of the voting power of our common stock. Either MatlinPatterson or Mr. Gleacher, acting together or alone, can exert considerable influence over corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, it may be difficult for other investors to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. In addition, if any of our stockholders, including MatlinPatterson and Mr. Gleacher, that in the aggregate own a majority of our common stock choose to act together, they will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of 22 Table of Contents any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on common stock. These stockholders might choose to take actions that are favorable to them but not to our other stockholders. Future sales or anticipated future sales of our common stock in the public market, by us, by MatlinPatterson, by management, by our employees or by others, could cause our stock price to decline. We may in the future issue additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of, or an expectation of sales of, shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. In addition, the sale or anticipated future sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the open market by MatlinPatterson, Mr. Gleacher or others, whether pursuant to a resale prospectus or pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Any such decline could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. We have granted to certain of our stockholders, rights with respect to registration under the Securities Act of the offer and sale of our common stock. These rights include both "demand" registration rights, which require us to file a registration statement if asked by such holders, as well as incidental, or "piggyback," registration rights granting the right to such holders to be included in a registration statement filed by us. As of February 29, 2012, there were approximately 51.0 million shares of our common stock and outstanding warrants to which these rights pertain. These sales might impact the liquidity of our common stock making it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 23 Table of Contents 