Item 1A. Risk Factors This document includes statements that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as “may”, “will”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, and “continue” or similar words. You should consider all statements other than historical information or current facts to be forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements may contain projections regarding our revenues, earnings, operations, and other financial projections, and may include statements of our future performance, strategies and objectives. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to accurately predict or control that may cause our actual results to differ, possibly materially, from the expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those discussed as a result of various factors. Such factors include, among others, market risk, credit risk and operating risk. These and other risks are set forth in greater detail below and elsewhere in this document. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update any of our forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below in addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risk factors are intended to highlight some factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. Company Risks Difficult market conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our business in many ways. Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the U.S and elsewhere around the world. Difficult market and economic conditions and geopolitical uncertainties have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business and profitability in many ways. Such conditions have materially and adversely changed over the prior fiscal year to unprecedented levels, characterized by a major lack of liquidity, substantially volatile and decreased asset values in nearly all asset classes, and a significant reduction in consumer and investor confidence. Currently, and as of the close of fiscal year 2008, the U.S. and the global economy are all in a recession. Many companies in a broad range of industries are in serious financial jeopardy due to the lack of consumer spending and business activity, and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Such conditions have also changed the broader landscape of the financial services industry, causing several industry leading institutions to fail or merge their businesses. Despite the various initiatives and actions that the U.S. and other governments and banks have implemented and taken during 2008, asset values and consumer and investor confidence continue to decline, and the liquidity crisis remains in existence. The result of such conditions, among others, could be to limit our access to sources of funding as well as an increase in the cost of obtaining such funding, and could limit our ability to engage in certain activities. Such effects likely will continue until market conditions substantially improve. Weakness in the equity and fixed income markets and diminished trading volume of securities could adversely impact our sales and trading business. Industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and mergers and acquisitions also would likely have an adverse effect on our revenues and prospects. In addition, reductions in the trading prices for equity securities also tend to reduce the dollar value of investment banking transactions, such as underwriting and mergers and acquisitions transactions, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn from these transactions. Our revenues would likely decline in such circumstances and, if we were unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our profit margin would erode. In addition, in the event of extreme market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. 8 Table of Contents We have incurred losses in recent periods and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses in recent periods. We recorded a net loss of $17.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and a net loss of $19.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. In recent years, we have experienced declines in revenues generated by certain of our key segments, including Equities and Other. We may incur losses and further declines in revenue in future periods. If we continue to incur losses and we are unable to raise funds to finance those losses, they could have a significant effect on our liquidity as well as our ability to operate. In addition, we may incur significant expenses if we expand our underwriting and trading businesses or engage in strategic acquisitions and investments. Accordingly, we will need to increase our revenues at a rate greater than our expenses to achieve and maintain profitability. If our revenues do not increase sufficiently, or we are unable to manage our expenses, we will not achieve and maintain profitability in future periods. We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. In addition, because our interests in the firm’s subsidiaries consist of equity interests, our rights may be subordinated to the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. We may experience further writedowns of our securities and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. The volatility and lack of liquidity in the market has made it increasingly difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations based on then-current information may require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities in future periods. In addition, when such securities are sold it may be at a price materially lower than the current fair value. Such events may also have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. Our ability to hire and retain our senior professionals is critical to the success of our business. In order to operate our business successfully, we rely heavily on our senior professionals. Their personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagements. We encounter intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the investment banking industry as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds. In the past, we have lost investment banking, brokerage, research, and senior professionals. We could lose more in the future. Any loss of professionals, particularly key senior professionals or groups of related professionals, could impair our ability to secure or successfully complete engagements, materially and adversely affect our revenues and make it more difficult to return to profitability. In the future, we may need to hire additional personnel. At that time, there could be a shortage of qualified and, in some cases, licensed personnel whom we could hire. This could hinder our ability to expand or cause a backlog in our ability to conduct our business, including the handling of investment banking transactions and the processing of brokerage orders. These personnel challenges could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms. Failures of financial institutions have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity, such as the liquidity crisis that currently exists in the U.S. and global economy. Liquidity is of particular importance to our trading business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients and counterparties’ willingness to engage in brokerage transactions with us. Our liquidity has been impaired by the current widening of credit spreads and significant decline in availability of credit, and could be further impaired due to other circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption, negative views about the financial services industry generally or an operational problem that affects our trading clients, third parties or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. We rely on cash and assets that have historically been readily convertible into cash such as our securities held in inventory to finance our operations generally and to maintain our margin requirements, particularly with our 9 Table of Contents clearing firms, Ridge Clearing Outsource Solutions, Inc. (“Ridge”), JP Morgan Clearing Corp. (“JP Morgan”), and Pershing LLC (“Pershing”). Our ability to continue to access these and other forms of capital could be impaired due to circumstances beyond our control such as a dramatic change in the value of our collateral, the willingness or ability of lenders to provide credit, and market disruptions or dislocations, generally. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations and operate our business. In order to obtain funding to grow our business or fund operations in the event of continuing losses, we may seek to raise capital through issuance and sale of our common stock or the incurrence of additional debt. The sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, would result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of debt may subject us to covenants restricting our business activities. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our venture capital business and investment portfolio may also create liquidity risk due to increased levels of investments in high-risk, illiquid assets. We have made substantial principal investments in our private equity funds and may make additional investments in future funds, which are typically made in securities that are not publicly traded. There is a significant risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in national or international economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions of countries in which investments are made. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of our investments through resale. Even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. At December 31, 2008, $15.4 million of our total assets consisted of relatively illiquid private equity investments (see Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). Capital requirements may impede our ability to conduct our business. Broadpoint Capital and Broadpoint AmTech, our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which they are members. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to conduct our core business as a brokerage firm. Pricing and other competitive pressures may impair the revenues and profitability of our brokerage business. In recent years, we have experienced significant pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in debt and equity trading. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. In the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic, algorithmic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. The trend toward using alternative trading systems is continuing to grow, which may result in decreased commission and trading revenue, reduce our participation in the trading markets and our ability to access market information, and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. As a result of pressure from institutional clients to alter “soft dollar” practices and SEC rulemaking in the soft dollar area, some institutions are entering into arrangements that separate (or “unbundle”) payments for research products or services from sales commissions. These arrangements, both in the form of lower commission rates and commission sharing agreements, have increased the competitive pressures on sales commissions and have affected the value our clients place on high-quality research. Additional pressure on sales and trading revenue may impair the profitability of our brokerage business. Moreover, our inability to reach agreement regarding the terms of unbundling arrangements with institutional clients who are actively seeking such arrangements could result in the loss of those clients, which would likely reduce our institutional commissions. We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. Additionally, in 2008 several prominent financial institutions consolidated, merged or received substantial government assistance. Such events could result in our 10 Table of Contents competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, or seeking to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. Certain of our businesses focus principally on specific sectors of the economy, and a deterioration in the business environment in these sectors generally or decline in the market for securities of companies within these sectors could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, our equity business focuses principally on the sectors of the economy we cover. Therefore, volatility in the business environment in these sectors generally, or in the market for securities of companies within these sectors particularly, could substantially affect our financial results and the market value of our common stock. The market for securities in each of our target sectors may also be subject to industry-specific risks. Underwriting transactions, strategic advisory engagements and related trading activities in our target sectors represent a significant portion of our businesses. This concentration exposes us to the risk of substantial declines in revenues in the event of downturns in these sectors of the economy and any future downturns in our target sectors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Markets have and may continue to experience periods of high volatility. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity, such as the asset price deterioration in the subprime residential mortgage market. Higher interest rates during the first half of 2007 continuing through 2008, falling property prices throughout the year and a significant increase in the number of subprime mortgages originated in 2005 and 2006 contributed to dramatic increases in mortgage delinquencies and defaults in 2007 and 2008 and led to delinquencies among higher-risk, or subprime, borrowers in the United States. The widespread dispersion of credit risk related to mortgage delinquencies and defaults through the securitization of mortgage-backed securities, sales of collateralized debt obligations and the creation of structured investment vehicles and the broad range of unregulated derivative products, caused banks to reduce their loans to each other or make them at higher interest rates. During the second half of 2007 and 2008, the economic impact of these problems spread and led to the most significant disruption of the financial markets since the great depression, and ultimately what amounted to a complete shutdown of the credit markets. Counterparties and other financial institutions failed in unprecedented fashion. It is impossible to predict how long these conditions will continue, whether they will continue to deteriorate and to know the extent to which our markets, products and businesses will be adversely affected. As a result, these conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increase in capital commitments in our trading, underwriting and other businesses increases the potential for significant losses. The trend in capital markets is toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. For example, in order to win business, investment banks are increasingly committing to purchase large blocks of stock from publicly-traded issuers or their significant shareholders, instead of the more traditional marketed underwriting process, in which marketing was typically completed before an investment bank committed to purchase securities for resale. As a result, we may be subject to increased risk as we commit greater amounts of capital to facilitate primarily client-driven business. Furthermore, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. We may enter into transactions in which we commit our own capital as part of our trading business. The number and size of these transactions may materially affect our results of operations in a given period. We may also incur significant losses from our trading activities due to market fluctuations and volatility from quarter to quarter. We maintain trading positions in the fixed income and equity markets to facilitate client-trading activities. To the extent that we own security positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those securities or in those markets could result in losses from a decline in value. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold securities we do not own in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to acquire the securities in a rising market. Moreover, taking such positions in times of significant volatility can lead to significant unrealized losses, which further impact our ability to borrow to finance such activities. The unprecedented volatility of the markets for both fixed income and equity securities in the fourth quarter of 2008, in combination with the credit crisis, caused 11 Table of Contents several well established investment banks to fail or come close to failing. If these conditions continue our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from trading in which we act as principal. The Company may incur trading losses relating to the purchase, sale or short sale of corporate and asset-backed fixed income securities and equity securities for our own account and from other principal trading. In any period, we may experience losses as a result of price declines, lack of trading volume, and illiquidity. From time to time, we may engage in a large block trade in a single security or maintain large position concentrations in a single security, securities of a single issuer, or securities of issuers engaged in a specific industry. For example, in 2008 we held securities of the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). In general, any downward price movement in these securities could result in a reduction of our revenues and profits. In addition, we may engage in hedging transactions and strategies that may not properly mitigate losses in our principal positions. If the transactions and strategies are not successful, we could suffer significant losses. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from period to period, which may impact our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant periodic variations in our revenues and results of operations. These variations may be attributed in part to trading related losses and the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the interest in the market for the products we trade, as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. This risk may be intensified by our focus on growth companies in the healthcare, energy and technology sectors and mortgage asset backed securities, as the market for these securities has experienced significant variations in the number and size of offerings as well as the secondary trading volume and prices of newly issued securities. Because of recent difficult market conditions, more companies considering initiating the process of an initial public offering are exploring merger and acquisition exit opportunities. As a result, we are unlikely to achieve steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which could in turn adversely affect our stock price. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If we violate the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be delisted. To maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market, we must meet certain financial and liquidity criteria. One of these criteria requires that we maintain a minimum bid price per share of $1.00. We currently meet the listing standards for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. The last reported sale price of our common stock on March 5, 2009 was $2.30 per share. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuation as a result of periodic variations in our revenues and results of operations. If we violate The NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements, we may be delisted. We face strong competition from larger firms. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses, in particular discounts in large block trades and trading commissions and spreads. In addition, pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book runners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future, as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. Many of our competitors in the brokerage and investment banking industries have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with clients than we have. These larger and better-capitalized competitors may be better able to 12 Table of Contents respond to changes in the brokerage and investment banking industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. The scale of our competitors has increased in recent years as a result of substantial consolidation among companies in the brokerage and investment banking industries. In addition, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired underwriting or financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors and, because we do not provide such financing, we may be unable to compete as effectively for clients in a significant part of the brokerage and investment banking market. Additionally, these broader, more robust investment banking and financial services platforms may be more appealing to investment banking professionals than our business, making it more difficult for us to attract new employees and retain those we have. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Our risk hedging strategies also expose us to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform on their obligations. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. 2008 saw a number of counterparties default on obligations in the financial services community that was unprecedented in recent times. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the variety of instruments, processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. Our financial, accounting or other data processing systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business, whether due to fire, other natural disaster, power or communications failure, act of 13 Table of Contents terrorism or war or otherwise. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including Greenwich CT, New York City NY, and Roseland NJ, work in close proximity to each other. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer and we may not be able to implement successfully contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or our counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. To be successful, we must profitably expand our business operations. We face numerous risks and uncertainties as we seek to expand. We seek the growth in our business primarily from internal expansion and through acquisitions and strategic partnering. If we are successful in expanding our business, there can be no assurance that our financial controls, the level and knowledge of our personnel, our operational abilities, our legal and compliance controls and our other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our business and our growth. The ineffectiveness of any of these controls or systems could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions in investments and personnel. We currently expect to grow through acquisitions and through strategic investments as well as through internal expansion. To the extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. In addition, acquisitions may involve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which may dilute our shareholders’ ownership of our firm. Furthermore, acquisitions could entail a number of risks including problems with the effective integration of operations, inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships, increased operating costs, exposure to unanticipated liabilities and difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. There is no assurance that any of our recent acquisitions or any business we acquire in the future will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Finally, expansions or acquisitions have required and may in the future requires significant managerial attentions, which may be diverted from our other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. Because MatlinPatterson FA Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“MatlinPatterson”), controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. As of March 4, 2008, MatlinPatterson controls approximately 54% of the voting power of our common stock. For as long as MatlinPatterson beneficially owns more than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, it will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors, call a special meeting of shareholders at which our directors may be removed with or without cause and determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on common stock. MatlinPatterson currently has and will have the power to prevent or cause a change in control, and could take other actions that might be favorable to MatlinPatterson but not to our other shareholders. 14 Table of Contents Because MatlinPatterson beneficially owns a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules and, as a result, we are not subject to all of the Nasdaq corporate governance requirements. Because MatlinPatterson controls more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. Under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, a controlled company may elect not to comply with certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements, including requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Because we have taken advantage of the controlled company exemption to certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements, our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq corporate governance requirements. Future sales or anticipated future sales of our common stock in the public market, by us, by MatlinPatterson or by others, could cause our stock price to decline. The sale by us of a significant number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the sale or anticipated future sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the open market by MatlinPatterson or others, whether pursuant to a resale prospectus or pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Any such decline in our stock price could impair our ability to raise capital in the future through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. Our pending acquisition of Gleacher Partners Inc. is subject to a variety of conditions and may not be completed. On March 3, 2009, we announced that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire Gleacher Partners Inc., an internationally recognized financial advisory boutique known for advising companies in mergers and acquisitions and restructurings. Completion of this merger is subject to a variety of conditions, many of which are outside of our control. See Part II — Item 9b. Other Information. We believe that the completion of this merger will confer substantial benefits on us. However, we may not ultimately complete this transaction or obtain the anticipated benefits. Risks Related to Our Industry Our businesses could be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among customers and investors due to difficult geopolitical or market conditions. Our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. Unfavorable economic or geopolitical conditions have and may continue to adversely affect customer and investor confidence, resulting in a substantial industry-wide decline in underwritings and financial advisory transactions. Additionally, market uncertainty and unfavorable economic conditions may result in fewer institutional clients with lesser amounts of assets to trade. In each case this could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profits. Additionally, unfavorable returns on investment, whether due to general adverse market conditions or otherwise, could adversely affect our ability to retain clients and attract new clients. Financial difficulty of another prominent financial institution could adversely affect financial markets. The creditworthiness and financial well-being of many financial institutions may be interdependent because of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. The financial difficulty of one company, therefore, could result in further market illiquidity or financial difficulties with other institutions and may adversely affect the clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, exchanges and other intermediaries with which we conduct business. Such events, therefore, could adversely impact our business. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny and enforcement activity over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. The industry has experienced increased scrutiny and enforcement activity from a variety of regulators, 15 Table of Contents including the SEC, FINRA (formerly NASD), NASDAQ, the state securities commission and state attorneys general. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other United States or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or actual or perceived conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Extensive regulation of public companies in the U.S. could reduce our revenue and otherwise adversely affect our business. Highly-publicized financial scandals in recent years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and have prompted Congress, the SEC, the NYSE and NASDAQ to significantly expand corporate governance and public disclosure requirements, and more such regulation of both public companies and the financial services industry is considered likely at this time. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these new requirements, decide to forgo initial public offerings, or list their securities instead on non-U.S. securities exchanges, our equity underwriting business may be adversely affected. In addition, provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the corporate governance rules imposed by self-regulatory organizations have diverted many companies’ attention away from capital market transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. In particular, companies that are or are planning to be public are incurring significant expenses in complying with the SEC and accounting standards relating to internal control over financial reporting, and companies that disclose material weaknesses in such controls under the new standards may have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to significant credit risk. In the normal course of our businesses, we are involved in the execution, settlement and financing of various customer and principal securities transactions. These activities are transacted on a cash, margin or delivery-versus-payment basis and are subject to the risk of counterparty or customer nonperformance. Although transactions are generally collateralized by the underlying security or other securities, we still face the risks associated with changes in the market value of securities that we may be obligated to purchase securities or have purchased in principal or riskless principal trades where a counterparty or customer fails to perform. During the recent unprecedented volatility of the financial markets this risk has been greatly increased. We may also incur credit risk in our derivative transactions to the extent such transactions result in uncollateralized credit exposure to our counterparties. We seek to control the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Our cost of funds for lending, investment activities and capital raising are affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. and foreign governmental and banking authorities, changes to which are not wholly predictable or within our control. Such changes may also affect the value of the securities we hold. 16 Table of Contents Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for “fairness opinions” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of trading arrangements. We are also subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a brokerage and investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as underwriter to our clients on important underwritings or as advisor for mergers and acquisitions and other transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. We are subject to claims and litigations in the ordinary course of our business. For information regarding certain pending claims see Part I — Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our Company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases, and we may suffer significant reputational harm for any misconduct by our employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 