ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risk factors listed below, in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report, could affect the business and future results of the Company. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to our Indebtedness: Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At February 28, 2011, our total indebtedness was $331.0 million, and our shareholders’ deficit was $189.7 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to generally adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because some of our debt is at variable rates of interest; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our Credit Agreement, our ability to borrow additional funds. 17 Table of Contents If we cannot continue to comply with the financial covenants in our debt instruments, or obtain waivers or other relief from our lenders, we may default, which could result in loss of our sources of liquidity and acceleration of our indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and the instrument governing such indebtedness contains restrictive financial covenants. Our ability to comply with the covenants in the Credit Agreement will depend upon our future performance and various other factors, such as business, competitive, technological, legislative and regulatory factors, some of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain compliance with all of these covenants. In that event, we would need to seek an amendment to the Credit Agreement, or would need to refinance our senior secured credit facility. Under amendments to the Credit Agreement, certain covenants have been modified or suspended, but more stringent covenant requirements are scheduled to resume in late 2012. There can be no assurance that we can obtain future amendments or waivers of the Credit Agreement, or refinance our senior secured credit facility and, even if so, it is likely that such relief would only last for a specified period, potentially necessitating additional amendments, waivers or refinancings in the future. In the event that we do not maintain compliance with the covenants under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could declare an event of default, subject to applicable notice and cure provisions, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial position. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Our lenders have taken security interests in substantially all of our consolidated assets. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may be forced to liquidate certain assets to repay all or part of the senior secured credit facility, and we cannot be assured that sufficient assets will remain for us to continue our business operations after we have paid all of the borrowings under the senior secured credit facility. Our ability to liquidate assets is affected by the regulatory restrictions associated with radio stations, including FCC licensing, which may make the market for these assets less liquid and increase the chances that these assets will be liquidated at a significant loss. The terms of our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our direct and indirect subsidiaries may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or to take some actions. Our Credit Agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock, incur liens, pay dividends, enter into asset purchase or sale transactions, merge or consolidate with another company, dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or make certain other payments or investments. These restrictions currently limit our ability to grow our business through acquisitions and could limit our ability to respond to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs. They also could restrict our corporate activities in other ways. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. To service our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to pay dividends and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our businesses might not generate sufficient cash flow from operations. We might not be able to complete future offerings, and future borrowings might not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Risks Related to our Business Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by weak economic conditions and instability in financial markets. We believe that advertising is a discretionary business expense. Spending on advertising tends to decline disproportionately during an economic recession or downturn as compared to other types of business spending. Consequently, a downturn in the United States economy generally has an adverse effect on our advertising revenue and, therefore, our results of operations. A recession or downturn in the economy of any individual geographic market, particularly a major market such as Los Angeles or New York, also generally has a significant effect on us. The recent recession in the global economy negatively impacted our results of operations. While economic conditions appear to be improving, we can not ensure that our results of operations won’t be negatively impacted by future economic downturns or by delays in economic recovery. Even with a recovery from the recent recession in the economy, an individual business sector (such as the automotive industry) that tends to spend more on advertising than other sectors might be forced to maintain a reduced level of advertising expenditures if that sector experiences a slower recovery than the economy in general, or might reduce its advertising expenditures further if additional downturns occur. If that sector’s spending represents a significant portion of our advertising revenues, any reduction in its advertising expenditures may affect our revenue. 18 Table of Contents We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations or other types of media. We operate in highly competitive industries. Our radio stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations and station groups, as well as with other media. Shifts in population, demographics, audience tastes, consumer use of technology and forms of media and other factors beyond our control could cause us to lose market share. Any adverse change in a particular market, or adverse change in the relative market positions of the stations located in a particular market, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or ratings, could require increased promotion or other expenses in that market, and could adversely affect our revenue in other markets. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. These companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. Our radio stations may not be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenue in the face of such competition. We routinely conduct market research to review the competitive position of our stations in their respective markets. If we determine that a station could improve its operating performance by serving a different demographic within its market, we may change the format of that station. Our competitors may respond to our actions by more aggressive promotions of their stations or by replacing the format we vacate, limiting our options if we do not achieve expected results with our new format. From time to time, other stations may change their format or programming, a new station may adopt a format to compete directly with our stations for audiences and advertisers, or stations might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. These tactics could result in lower ratings and advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for us. Any failure by us to respond, or to respond as quickly as our competitors, could also have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Because of the competitive factors we face, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. Our domestic radio operations are heavily concentrated in the New York and Los Angeles markets. Our radio operations in New York and Los Angeles, including the LMA fee we receive from GRC, account for approximately 45% of our domestic radio revenues. Our results from operations can be materially affected by decreased ratings or resulting revenues in either one of these markets. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry in order to remain competitive. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and the emergence of competition from new technologies and services. We cannot assure that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Various media technologies and services that have been developed or introduced include: • satellite-delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous niche formats; • audio programming by cable systems, direct-broadcast satellite systems, personal communications systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; • personal digital audio devices (e.g., audio via Wi-Fi, mobile phones, iPods®, iPhones®, WiMAX, the Internet and MP3 players); • in-band on-channel digital radio (i.e., HD digital radio), which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; and • low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets. New media has resulted in fragmentation in the advertising market, but we cannot predict the effect, if any, that additional competition arising from new technologies may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot ensure that our investments in HD digital radio and other technologies will produce the desired returns. 19 Table of Contents Our business depends on maintaining our licenses with the FCC. We could be prevented from operating a radio station if we fail to maintain its license. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing regulation. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of FCC licenses. The filing of petitions or complaints against FCC licensees could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant, its consent to the assignment of licenses to or from an FCC licensee or the transfer of control of an FCC licensee. In certain circumstances, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies will operate to impose limitations on alien ownership and voting of our common stock. There can be no assurance that there will be no changes in the current regulatory scheme, the imposition of additional regulations or the creation of new regulatory agencies, which changes could restrict or curtail our ability to acquire, operate and dispose of stations or, in general, to compete profitably with other operators of radio and other media properties. Each of our domestic radio stations operates pursuant to one or more licenses issued by the FCC. Under FCC rules, radio licenses are granted for a term of eight years. Our licenses expire at various times through June 2014. Although we will apply to renew these licenses, third parties may challenge our renewal applications. While we are not aware of facts or circumstances that would prevent us from having our current licenses renewed, there can be no assurance that the licenses will be renewed or that renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our business and operations. Failure to obtain the renewal of any of our broadcast licenses may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, if we or any of our officers, directors or significant stockholders materially violates the FCC’s rules and regulations or the Communications Act, is convicted of a felony or is found to have engaged in unlawful anticompetitive conduct or fraud upon another government agency, the FCC may, in response to a petition from a third party or on its own initiative, in its discretion, commence a proceeding to impose sanctions upon us which could involve the imposition of monetary fines, the revocation of our broadcast licenses or other sanctions. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the applicable radio station only after we had exhausted all rights to administrative and judicial review without success. The FCC has engaged in vigorous enforcement of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition on the broadcast of indecent material because of the FCC’s broad definition of such material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. Congress has dramatically increased the penalties for broadcasting obscene, indecent or profane programming and broadcasters can potentially face license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on indecency, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. As a result of these developments, we have implemented certain measures that are designed to reduce the risk of broadcasting indecent material in violation of the FCC’s rules. These and other future modifications to our programming in an effort to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on our competitive position. Any changes in current FCC ownership regulations may negatively impact our ability to compete or otherwise harm our business operations. The FCC is required to review all of its broadcast ownership rules every four years and to repeal or modify any of its rules that are no longer “necessary in the public interest.” We cannot predict the impact of these reviews on our business or their effect on our ability to acquire broadcast stations in the future or to continue to own and freely transfer stations that we have already acquired. In 2003, we acquired a controlling interest in five FM stations and one AM station in the Austin, Texas market. Under ownership regulations released after the date of our acquisition, it appears that we would be permitted to own or control only four FM stations in the Austin market (ownership of one AM station would continue to be allowed). The new rules do not require divestiture of existing non-conforming station combinations, but do provide that such clusters may be transferred only to defined small business entities or to buyers that commit to selling any excess stations to such entities within one year. Consequently, if we wish to sell our interest in the Austin stations, we will have to either sell to an entity that meets those FCC requirements or exclude at least one FM station from the transaction. 20 Table of Contents Changes in current Federal regulations could adversely affect our business operations. Congress and the FCC have under consideration, and may in the future consider and adopt, new laws, regulations and policies that could, directly or indirectly, affect the profitability of our broadcast stations. In particular, Congress is considering a revocation of radio’s exemption from paying royalties to performing artists for use of their recordings (radio already pays a royalty to songwriters). A requirement to pay additional royalties could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. Our business strategy and our ability to operate profitably depend on the continued services of our key employees, the loss of whom could materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and certain key employees. Although our executive officers are typically under employment agreements, their managerial, technical and other services would be difficult to replace if we lose the services of one or more of them or other key personnel. Our business could be seriously harmed if one of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise competes directly or indirectly against us. Our radio stations employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts of syndicated radio programs with significant loyal audiences in their respective broadcast areas. These on-air personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a station and, thus, the ability of the station to sell advertising. These individuals may not remain with our radio stations and may not retain their audiences. Future operation of our business may require significant additional capital. The continued development, growth and operation of our businesses may require substantial capital. In particular, additional acquisitions may require large amounts of capital. We intend to fund our growth, including acquisitions, if any, with cash generated from operations, borrowings under our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement, dated November 2, 2006, as further amended on March 3, 2009, August 19, 2009 and March 29, 2011 (the “Credit Agreement”), and proceeds from future issuances of debt and equity, both public and private. Currently, the Credit Agreement substantially limits our ability to make acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional debt or equity financing is subject to market conditions, our financial condition and other factors. If we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms when needed, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our current and future operations are subject to certain risks that are unique to operating in a foreign country. We currently have international operations in Slovakia and Bulgaria. Therefore, we are exposed to risks inherent in international business operations. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include the following: • changing regulatory or taxation policies, including changes in tax policies that have been proposed by the Obama Administration related to foreign earnings; • currency exchange risks; • changes in diplomatic relations or hostility from local populations; • seizure of our property by the government or restrictions on our ability to transfer our property or earnings out of the foreign country; • potential instability of foreign governments, which might result in losses against which we are not insured; and • difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems. Broadcast licenses in many foreign countries do not necessarily confer the same renewal expectancy as U.S. radio stations broadcast licenses. While we believe that we have reasonable prospects for securing extensions of our remaining international broadcast licenses, we cannot be sure that such extensions will be granted or that the terms and conditions of such extensions will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations. For instance, on October 28, 2009, the Hungarian National Radio and Television Board (ORTT) announced that it was awarding to another bidder the national radio license then held by our majority-owned subsidiary, Slager. Slager ceased broadcasting effective November 19, 2009. We continue to explore Hungarian, European Union, and international arbitration forums as we believe the award of the license by the ORTT to the other bidder violated Hungarian law and various bilateral investment treaties. 21 Table of Contents Exchange rates may cause future losses in our international operations. Because we own assets in foreign countries and derive revenue from our international operations, we may incur currency translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the United States dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. We have incurred losses over the past three years and we may incur future losses. We have reported net losses in our consolidated statement of operations over the past three years predominately due to the recording of non-cash impairment charges related to FCC licenses and goodwill. As of February 28, 2011, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprise 75% of our total assets. If events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of the FCC licenses and goodwill below the amount reflected on the balance sheet, we may be required to recognize impairment charges, which may be material, in future periods. Our failure to comply under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the period ended August 31, 2009, the Company discovered a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. As disclosed in our Form 10-Q Report for the period ended November 30, 2009, we remediated the material weakness. As such, as of November 30, 2009, based upon the controls evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls were once again effective to provide reasonable assurance that information relating to Emmis that is required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In future periods, there are no assurances that we will not have additional material weaknesses that would be required to be reported or that we will be able to comply with the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404. A reported material weakness or the failure to meet the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This loss of confidence could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Our operating results have been and may again be adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism and natural catastrophes. Acts of war and terrorism against the United States, and the country’s response to such acts, may negatively affect the U.S. advertising market, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline due to advertising cancellations, delays or defaults in payment for advertising time, and other factors. In addition, these events may have other negative effects on our business, the nature and duration of which we cannot predict. For example, after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, we decided that the public interest would be best served by the presentation of continuous commercial-free coverage of the unfolding events on our stations. This temporary policy had a material adverse effect on our advertising revenues and operating results for the month of September 2001. Future events like those of September 11, 2001 may cause us to adopt similar policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our advertising revenues and operating results. Additionally, the attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001 resulted in the destruction of the transmitter facilities that were located there. Although we had no transmitter facilities located at the World Trade Center, broadcasters that had facilities located in the destroyed buildings experienced temporary disruptions in their ability to broadcast. Since we tend to locate transmission facilities for stations serving urban areas on tall buildings or other significant structures, such as the Empire State Building in New York, further terrorist attacks or other disasters could cause similar disruptions in our broadcasts in the areas affected. If these disruptions occur, we may not be able to locate adequate replacement facilities in a cost-effective or timely manner or at all. Failure to remedy disruptions caused by terrorist attacks or other disasters and any resulting degradation in signal coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Similarly, hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, wild fires and other natural disasters can have a material adverse effect on our operations in any given market. While we generally carry property insurance covering such catastrophes, we cannot be sure that the proceeds from such insurance will be sufficient to offset the costs of rebuilding or repairing our property or the lost income. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock: One shareholder controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock, and his interest may conflict with those of investors. As of May 2, 2011, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, Jeffrey H. Smulyan, beneficially owned shares representing approximately 64% of the outstanding combined voting power of all classes of our common stock, as calculated pursuant to Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act. He therefore is in a position to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of directors. Our common stock may cease to be listed on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (Nasdaq) Global Select Market. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “EMMS.” We may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which require, among other things, a minimum closing price of our common stock and a minimum market capitalization. In the past, we have received written deficiency notices from The Nasdaq Stock Market advising us that the closing bid price of our Class A common stock did not meet the continued listing requirements pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). In each of these instances, we were able to satisfy the requirements for continued listing by maintaining a closing bid price equal to or in excess of $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting from that market, and we might or might not be eligible to list our shares on another Nasdaq market. Any such delisting of our common stock could also cause our 6.25% Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, which is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “EMMSP,” to also be delisted. A delisting of our stock from the Nasdaq Global Select Market could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our stock. The difficulties associated with any attempt to gain control of our company could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. Jeffrey H. Smulyan has substantial influence over the decision as to whether a change in control will occur for our company. There are also provisions contained in our articles of incorporation, by-laws and Indiana law that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Emmis. In addition, FCC approval for transfers of control of FCC licenses and assignments of FCC licenses are required. These restrictions and limitations could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 