ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risk factors listed below, in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report, could affect the business and future results of the Company. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to our Business The global economic crisis has affected our business and we cannot predict its future impact. Our revenues continue to be impacted by economic trends that have caused a general downturn in the advertising sector. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility and disruption. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for many companies, including us. If economic trends continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a further adverse effect, which may be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to access capital. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations or other types of media. We operate in highly competitive industries. Our radio stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations and station groups, as well as with other media. Shifts in population, demographics, audience tastes, consumer use of technology and forms of media and other factors beyond our control could cause us to lose market share. Any adverse change in a particular market, or adverse change in the relative market positions of the stations located in a particular market, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or ratings, could require increased promotion or other expenses in that market, and could adversely affect our revenue in other markets. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. These companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. Our radio stations may not be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenue in the face of such competition. We routinely conduct market research to review the competitive position of our stations in their respective markets. If we determine that a station could improve its operating performance by serving a different demographic within its market, we may change the format of that station. Our competitors may respond to our actions by more aggressive promotions of their stations or by replacing the format we vacate, limiting our options if we do not achieve expected results with our new format. From time to time, other stations may change their format or programming, a new station may adopt a format to compete directly with our stations for audiences and advertisers, or stations might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. These tactics could result in lower ratings and advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for 16 Table of Contents us. Any failure by us to respond, or to respond as quickly as our competitors, could also have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Arbitron Inc., the supplier of ratings data for United States radio markets, has developed technology to passively collect data for its ratings service. The Portable People MeterTM is a small, pager-sized device that does not require any active manipulation by the end user and is capable of automatically measuring radio, television, Internet, satellite radio and satellite television signals that are encoded for the service by the broadcaster. Our New York, Los Angeles and Chicago market ratings are being measured by the PPMTM. In each market, there has been a compression in the relative ratings of all stations in the market, enhancing the competitive pressure within the market for advertising dollars. In addition, ratings for certain stations when measured by the PPMTM as opposed to the traditional diary methodology can be materially different. PPMTM based ratings are scheduled to be introduced in all of our other markets, other than Terre Haute which will remain a diary ratings market, by Spring 2010. Because of the competitive factors we face and the introduction of the PPMTM, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. Our domestic radio operations are heavily concentrated in the New York and Los Angeles markets. Our radio operations in New York and Los Angeles account for approximately 50% of our domestic radio revenues. Our results from operations can be materially affected by a downturn in operations in either one of these markets. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry in order to remain competitive. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and the emergence of competition from new technologies and services. We cannot assure that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Various media technologies and services have been developed or introduced in the recent years include: - satellite-delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous niche formats; - audio programming by cable systems, direct-broadcast satellite systems, personal communications systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; - personal digital audio devices (e.g., audio via Wi-Fi, mobile phones, iPods®, iPhones®, WiMAX, the Internet and MP3 players); - in-band on-channel digital radio (i.e., HD digital radio), which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; and - low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets. New media has resulted in fragmentation in the advertising market, but we cannot predict the effect, if any, that additional competition arising from new technologies may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot ensure that our investments in HD digital radio and other technologies will produce the desired returns. Our business depends on maintaining our licenses with the FCC. We could be prevented from operating a radio station if we fail to maintain its license. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing regulation. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of FCC licenses. The filing of petitions or complaints against FCC licensees could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant, its consent to the assignment of licenses to or from an FCC licensee or the transfer of control of an FCC licensee. In certain circumstances, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies will operate to impose limitations on alien ownership and voting of our common stock. There can be no assurance that there will be no changes in the current regulatory scheme, the imposition of additional regulations or the creation of new regulatory agencies, which changes could restrict or curtail our ability to acquire, operate and dispose of stations or, in general, to compete profitably with other operators of radio and other media properties. 17 Table of Contents Each of our radio stations operates pursuant to one or more licenses issued by the FCC. Under FCC rules, radio licenses are granted for a term of eight years. Our licenses expire at various times through June 2014. Although we will apply to renew these licenses, third parties may challenge our renewal applications. While we are not aware of facts or circumstances that would prevent us from having our current licenses renewed, there can be no assurance that the licenses will be renewed or that renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our business and operations. Failure to obtain the renewal of any of our broadcast licenses may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, if we or any of our officers, directors or significant stockholders materially violates the FCC’s rules and regulations or the Communications Act, is convicted of a felony or is found to have engaged in unlawful anticompetitive conduct or fraud upon another government agency, the FCC may, in response to a petition from a third party or on its own initiative, in its discretion, commence a proceeding to impose sanctions upon us which could involve the imposition of monetary fines, the revocation of our broadcast licenses or other sanctions. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the applicable radio station only after we had exhausted all rights to administrative and judicial review without success. The FCC has begun more vigorous enforcement of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition on the broadcast of indecent material because of the FCC’s broad definition of such material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. Congress has dramatically increased the penalties for broadcasting obscene, indecent or profane programming and broadcasters can potentially face license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on indecency, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. As a result of these developments, we have implemented certain measures that are designed to reduce the risk of broadcasting indecent material in violation of the FCC’s rules. These and other future modifications to our programming in an effort to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on our competitive position. Any changes in current FCC ownership regulations may negatively impact our ability to compete or otherwise harm our business operations. The FCC is required to review all of its broadcast ownership rules every four years and to repeal or modify any of its rules that are no longer “necessary in the public interest.” We cannot predict the impact of these reviews on our business or their effect on our ability to acquire broadcast stations in the future or to continue to own and freely transfer stations that we have already acquired. In 2003, we acquired a controlling interest in five FM stations and one AM station in the Austin, Texas market. Under ownership regulations released after the date of our acquisition, it appears that we would be permitted to own or control only four FM stations in the Austin market (ownership of one AM station would continue to be allowed). The new rules do not require divestiture of existing non-conforming station combinations, but do provide that such clusters may be transferred only to defined small business entities or to buyers that commit to selling any excess stations to such entities within one year. Consequently, if we wish to sell our interest in the Austin stations, we will have to either sell to an entity that meets those FCC requirements or exclude at least one FM station from the transaction. Changes in current Federal regulations could adversely affect our business operations. Congress and the FCC have under consideration, and may in the future consider and adopt, new laws, regulations and policies that could, directly or indirectly, affect the profitability of our broadcast stations. In particular, Congress is considering a revocation of radio’s exemption from paying royalties to performing artists for use of their recordings (radio already pays a royalty to songwriters). A requirement to pay additional royalties could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. Our business strategy and our ability to operate profitably depend on the continued services of our key employees, the loss of whom could materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and certain key employees. Although our executive officers are typically under employment agreements, their managerial, 18 Table of Contents technical and other services would be difficult to replace if we lose the services of one or more of them or other key personnel. Our business could be seriously harmed if one of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise competes directly or indirectly against us. Our radio stations employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts of syndicated radio programs with significant loyal audiences in their respective broadcast areas. These on-air personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a station and, thus, the ability of the station to sell advertising. These individuals may not remain with our radio stations and may not retain their audiences. Recently, the Company reduced salaries of most employees in a cost reduction effort. Most of our employees with employment agreements voluntarily participated in the salary reduction. These salary reductions may make it more difficult to retain our key employees. Future operation of our business may require significant additional capital. The continued development, growth and operation of our businesses may require substantial capital. In particular, additional acquisitions may require large amounts of capital. We intend to fund our growth, including acquisitions, if any, with cash generated from operations, borrowings under our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement, dated November 2, 2006, as further amended on March 3, 2009 (the “Credit Agreement”) and proceeds from future issuances of debt and equity, both public and private. Our ability to raise additional debt or equity financing is subject to market conditions, our financial condition and other factors. If we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms when needed, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our current and future operations are subject to certain risks that are unique to operating in a foreign country. We currently have several international operations, including operations in Hungary, Slovakia, Belgium and Bulgaria. Therefore, we are exposed to risks inherent in international business operations. The risks of doing business in foreign countries include the following: - changing regulatory or taxation policies, including changes in tax policies that have been proposed by the Obama Administration related to foreign earnings; - currency exchange risks; - changes in diplomatic relations or hostility from local populations; - seizure of our property by the government or restrictions on our ability to transfer our property or earnings out of the foreign country; - potential instability of foreign governments, which might result in losses against which we are not insured; and - difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems. Broadcast licenses in many foreign countries do not generally confer the same renewal expectancy as U.S. radio stations’ broadcast licenses. For instance, Hungarian broadcast law is silent as to the treatment of broadcast licenses after the expiration of the first license renewal period. While we believe we have reasonable prospects for securing additional extensions of our Hungarian broadcast licenses after the expiration of our first license renewal period in November 2009, we cannot assure that such extensions will be granted or that the terms and conditions of such extensions will not have a material adverse effect on our Hungarian operations. Exchange rates may cause future losses in our international operations. Because we own assets in foreign countries and derive revenue from our international operations, we may incur currency translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the United States dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. We have incurred losses over the past two years and we may incur future losses. We have reported net losses in our consolidated statement of operations over the past two years as a result of recording non-cash write-downs of our FCC licenses and goodwill. In fiscal 2009, we recorded impairments related to our FCC licenses and goodwill of $362.8 million. As of February 28, 2009, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprise 71% of our total assets. If 19 Table of Contents events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of the FCC licenses and goodwill below the amount reflected on the balance sheet, we may be required to recognize impairment charges, which may be material, in future periods. Our failure to comply under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We have undergone a comprehensive effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This effort included documenting and testing our internal controls. As of February 28, 2009, we did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. In future years, there are no assurances that we will not have material weaknesses that would be required to be reported or that we will be able to comply with the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404. A reported material weakness or the failure to meet the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This loss of confidence could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Our operating results have been and may again be adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism and natural catastrophes. Acts of war and terrorism against the United States, and the country’s response to such acts, may negatively affect the U.S. advertising market, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline due to advertising cancellations, delays or defaults in payment for advertising time, and other factors. In addition, these events may have other negative effects on our business, the nature and duration of which we cannot predict. For example, after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, we decided that the public interest would be best served by the presentation of continuous commercial-free coverage of the unfolding events on our stations. This temporary policy had a material adverse effect on our advertising revenues and operating results for the month of September 2001. Future events like those of September 11, 2001 may cause us to adopt similar policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our advertising revenues and operating results. Additionally, the attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001 resulted in the destruction of the transmitter facilities that were located there. Although we had no transmitter facilities located at the World Trade Center, broadcasters that had facilities located in the destroyed buildings experienced temporary disruptions in their ability to broadcast. Since we tend to locate transmission facilities for stations serving urban areas on tall buildings or other significant structures, such as the Empire State Building in New York, further terrorist attacks or other disasters could cause similar disruptions in our broadcasts in the areas affected. If these disruptions occur, we may not be able to locate adequate replacement facilities in a cost-effective or timely manner or at all. Failure to remedy disruptions caused by terrorist attacks or other disasters and any resulting degradation in signal coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Similarly, hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, wild fires and other natural disasters can have a material adverse effect on our operations in any given market. While we generally carry property insurance covering such catastrophes, we cannot assure that the proceeds from such insurance will be sufficient to offset the costs of rebuilding or repairing our property or the lost income. Risks Related to our Indebtedness: Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At February 28, 2009, our total indebtedness was $422.4 million, and our shareholders’ deficit was $28.6 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could: - make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; - increase our vulnerability to generally adverse economic and industry conditions; - require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; - result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because some of our debt is at variable rates of interest; - limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; 20 Table of Contents - place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and - limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our Credit Agreement, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. A continued worsening of the economy could negatively impact our ability to meet our cash needs and our ability to maintain compliance with our debt covenants. Based on our most recent projections, we believe the Company can meet its liquidity needs and maintain compliance through February 28, 2010 with financial covenants in our Credit Agreement, including: (1) Consolidated Total Funded Debt to Consolidated Operating Cash Flow (each as defined in our Credit Agreement) of 6 times; and (2) Consolidated Operating Cash Flow to Consolidated Fixed Charges (each as defined in our Credit Agreement) of 1.25 times. However, if our revenues are significantly less than planned due to difficult market conditions or for other reasons, our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants in our Credit Agreement would become increasingly difficult without remedial measures. Such measures may include further operating cost and capital expenditure reductions and additional de-leveraging actions. If these measures are unsuccessful, we would attempt to negotiate less restrictive covenants through an amendment or waivers of covenant compliance with our lenders, which could result in higher interest costs, additional fees and reduced borrowing capacity. If the Company cannot maintain compliance with its debt covenants, there is no assurance we would be able to negotiate amendment relief or waivers of covenant compliance with our lenders. Failure to comply with our debt covenants and failure to negotiate a favorable amendment or waivers of covenant compliance could result in the acceleration of the maturity of all our outstanding debt, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Consolidated Total Funded Debt to Consolidated Operating Cash Flow ratio required by the Credit Agreement changes to 5.5 times on May 31, 2010, 5 times on February 28, 2011, 4.5 times on November 30, 2011 and 4 times for all periods after May 31, 2012. The Company has projected compliance through February 28, 2010. Projections beyond fiscal 2010 are too speculative to assess future compliance for such years. The terms of our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our direct and indirect subsidiaries may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or to take some actions. Our Credit Agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock, incur liens, pay dividends, enter into asset sale transactions, merge or consolidate with another company, dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or make certain other payments or investments. These restrictions currently limit our ability to grow our business through acquisitions and could limit our ability to respond to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs. They also could restrict our corporate activities in other ways. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. To service our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to pay dividends and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our businesses might not generate sufficient cash flow from operations. We might not be able to complete future offerings, and future borrowings might not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our corporate debt rating was recently downgraded, and we could suffer further downgrades. On a continuing basis, credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investor Services (“Moody’s”) evaluate our debt. On April 27, 2009 Moody’s downgraded our corporate family rating to Caa2 from Caa1 and reiterated its rating outlook as negative. The ratings downgrade reflected concerns regarding continued internal operating challenges at our New York and Los Angeles stations and belief that our credit metrics will likely deteriorate in the face of a further slowdown in the economy. On April 14, 2009, S&P downgraded our corporate family rating to CCC+ from B+ and said its rating outlook is negative. S&P cited 21 Table of Contents concerns regarding our ability to comply with financial covenants in our Credit Agreement in light of weak operating performance and the potential for a covenant violation in fiscal 2010 if trends do not improve. Our Credit Agreement does not require that we maintain a minimum credit rating, so actions such as these by the credit rating agencies do not necessarily have an immediate impact on our cost of debt or liquidity. However, a lower credit rating may translate to higher borrowing costs in the future if we were to further amend or refinance our Credit Agreement. Risks Related to our Common Stock: One shareholder controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock, and his interest may conflict with those of investors. As of April 30, 2009, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, Jeffrey H. Smulyan, beneficially owned shares representing approximately 70.5% of the outstanding combined voting power of all classes of our common stock, as calculated pursuant to Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act. He therefore is in a position to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of directors. Our common stock may cease to be listed on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (NASDAQ) Global Select Market. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol “EMMS.” We may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ, which require, among other things, a minimum closing price of our common stock and a minimum market capitalization. The NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the minimum closing price and minimum market capitalization requirements through July 20, 2009. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of the NASDAQ for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. A delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock. The difficulties associated with any attempt to gain control of our company could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. Jeffrey H. Smulyan has substantial influence over the decision as to whether a change in control will occur for our Company. There are also provisions contained in our articles of incorporation, by-laws and Indiana law that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company. In addition, FCC approval for transfers of control of FCC licenses and assignments of FCC licenses are required. These restrictions and limitations could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 