ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our Common Shares involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company or otherwise associated with an investment in our Common Shares. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, and have attempted to include all material risk factors. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Business of Vista Gold Vista Gold is a "passive foreign investment company" for U.S. tax purposes, which can have a materially adverse effect on a U.S. shareholder's economic return on investment in our Common Shares. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, Vista Gold was classified as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") under section 1297 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008, and likely will be a PFIC in subsequent taxable years until it has significant operating income. Classification of a corporation as a PFIC is a tax attribute which may have a material adverse effect on a U.S. shareholder's economic return. Whether, and to what extent, there will be a material adverse effect depends to a very large extent on whether a U.S. shareholder makes certain elections in timely fashion. These elections are discussed herein under "Part II—Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations". Each U.S. investor in our Common Shares is urged to review that discussion and consult an independent U.S. tax adviser, because the PFIC rules are complex. Feasibility study results and preliminary assessment results are based on estimates that are subject to uncertainty. Feasibility studies are used to determine the economic viability of a deposit, as are pre-feasibility studies and preliminary assessments. Feasibility studies are the most detailed and reflect a higher level of confidence in the reported capital and operating costs. Generally accepted levels of confidence are plus or minus 15% for feasibility studies, plus or minus 25-30% for pre-feasibility studies and plus or minus 35-40% for preliminary assessments. These levels reflect the levels of confidence that exist at the time the study is completed. While these studies are based on the best information available to us for the level of study, we cannot be certain that actual costs will not significantly exceed the estimated cost. While Vista incorporates what it believes is an appropriate contingency factor in cost estimates to account for this uncertainty, there can be no assurance that the contingency factor is adequate. The economic viability of a deposit is based on many factors that are subject to uncertainty. Many factors are involved in the determination of the economic viability of a deposit, including the achievement of satisfactory mineral reserve estimates, the level of estimated metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating cost estimates and estimates of future gold prices. Resource estimates are based on the assay results of many intervals from many drill holes and the interpolation of those results between holes. There is no certainty that metallurgical recoveries obtained in bench scale or pilot plant scale tests will be achieved in commercial operations. Capital and operating cost estimates are based upon many factors, including anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the orebody, ground and mining conditions, expected recovery rates of the gold from the ore and anticipated environmental and regulatory compliance costs. Each of these factors involves uncertainties and as a result, we cannot give any assurance that our development or exploration projects will become operating mines. Further, it may take many years from the initial phase of drilling before production is possible and, during that time, the economic feasibility of exploiting a discovery may change as the result of changing commodity and supply costs. If a mine is developed, actual operating results may differ from those anticipated in a feasibility study. There may be delays in commencement of construction on the Paredones Amarillos Gold Project. Delays in commencement of construction could result from delays in receiving the required governmental permits including the Change of Land Use and Temporary Occupation (for the life of the project) permits, or 13 from factors such as availability and performance of engineering and construction contractors, suppliers and consultants, availability of required equipment and receipt of required governmental approvals. Any delay in the performance of any one or more of the contractors, suppliers, consultants or other persons on which we depend, or lack of availability of required equipment, or delay or failure to receive required governmental approvals, could delay or prevent commencement of construction on the Paredones Amarillos gold project. There can be no assurance whether or when construction at the Paredones Amarillos gold project will commence or that the necessary personnel, equipment or supplies will be available to us if and when construction is commenced. If we are unable to acquire permits to mine the property, then we will have no reserves under U.S. Industry Guide 7. The final status of our required governmental permits for the Paredones Amarillos Gold Project could negatively impact our mineral reserves. We have not yet received our required governmental permits for the Paredones Amarillos gold project. We decided to apply for a new CSUF and have presented an application for a TOP for the use of the federal land which overlies the Paredones Amarillos deposit. The TOP is a necessary pre-requisite for the CUSF application. We have not yet received the TOP, which was expected by the end of 2008. Communications that our advisors have had with the office of the General Director of Mines of the Ministry of Economy (the department responsible for awarding the TOP) indicate that the approval process is proceeding normally, but at a slower pace than expected. However, there are many variables and uncertainties involved throughout the TOP and CSUF approval process and approval is not guaranteed. If we are unable to secure a TOP and CSUF, Mexican law will prohibit us from mining the Paredones Amarillos gold project and, accordingly, we will have no reserves at Paredones Amarillos under SEC Industry Guide 7. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. We anticipate that costs at our projects including the Paredones Amarillos gold project, Mt. Todd gold project and our Awak Mas gold project as well as other properties that we may explore or develop, will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any significant location could have a significant effect on our profitability. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and development operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. We cannot be certain that our acquisition, exploration and development activities will be commercially successful. We currently have no properties that produce gold in commercial quantities. Substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties, to establish mineral reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. We cannot be assured that any mineral reserves or mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) acquired or discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. The price of gold is subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect the realizable value of our assets and potential future results of operations and cash flow. Our principal assets are mineral reserves and mineralized material. We intend to attempt to acquire additional properties containing mineral reserves and mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines). The price that we pay to acquire these properties will be, in large part, influenced by the price of gold at the time of the acquisition. Our potential future revenues are expected to be, in large part, derived from the mining and 14 sale of gold from these properties or from the outright sale or joint venture of some of these properties. The value of these mineral reserves and mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines), and the value of any potential gold production there from, will vary in proportion to variations in gold prices. The price of gold has fluctuated widely, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including, but not limited to, international, economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, central bank activities, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns and speculative activities. The effect of these factors on the price of gold, and therefore the economic viability of any of our projects, cannot accurately be predicted. Any drop in the price of gold would adversely affect our asset values, cash flows, potential revenues and profits. Mining exploration, development and operating activities are inherently hazardous. Mineral exploration involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed any liability insurance policy limits. It is also possible that the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or, we could elect not to be insured against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event, we could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Calculations of mineral reserves and of mineralized material are estimates only, subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore, and recoverability of metal in the mining process. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves and corresponding grades dedicated to future production. Until mineral reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of mineral reserves and ore may vary depending on metal prices. Estimates of mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) are subject to uncertainty as well. The estimating of mineral reserves and mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) is a subjective process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quantity and quality of available data and the assumptions used and judgments made in interpreting engineering and geological information. There is significant uncertainty in any reserve or mineralized material estimate (estimate of mineral resources under Canadian guidelines), and the actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of mining a deposit may differ materially from our estimates. Estimated mineral reserves or mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) may have to be recalculated based on changes in metal prices, further exploration or development activity or actual production experience. This could materially and adversely affect estimates of the volume or grade of mineralization, estimated recovery rates or other important factors that influence estimates of mineral reserves or mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines). Any material change in the quantity of mineral reserves, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. Our exploration and development operations are subject to environmental regulations, which could result in our incurring additional costs and operational delays. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is evolving in some countries or jurisdictions in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our projects. We are currently subject to U.S. federal and state government environmental regulations with respect to our properties in Idaho and California in the United States. We are also currently subject to environmental regulations with respect to our properties in Mexico, Australia and Indonesia. 15 U.S. Federal Laws The U.S. Bureau of Land Management requires that mining operations on lands subject to its regulation obtain an approved plan of operations subject to environmental impact evaluation under the National Environmental Policy Act. Any significant modifications to the plan of operations may require the completion of an environmental assessment or Environmental Impact Statement ("EIS)" prior to approval. Mining companies must post a bond or other surety to guarantee the cost of post-mining reclamation. These requirements could add significant additional cost and delays to any mining project we undertake. Under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, mining companies may incur costs for generating, transporting, treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste, as well as for closure and post-closure maintenance once they have completed mining activities on a property. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, storage facilities, and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Federal Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. Permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA"), imposes strict, joint and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. Those liable groups include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities which release hazardous substances into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time the disposal of the hazardous substances occurred. This liability could include the cost of removal or remediation of the release and damages for injury to the surrounding property. We cannot predict the potential for future CERCLA liability with respect to our U.S. properties. Idaho Laws Permitting a mining operation, such as Yellow Pine, located on patented mining claims within a National Forest in Idaho would require obtaining various Federal, State and local permits under the coordination of the Idaho joint review process. Mining projects require the establishment and presentation of environmental baseline conditions for air, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural, historical, geological, geotechnical, geochemical, soil and socioeconomic parameters. An EIS would be required for any mining activities proposed on public lands. Permits would also be required for storm-water discharge; wetland disturbance (dredge and fill); surface mining; cyanide use, transport and storage; air quality; dam safety (for water storage and/or tailing storage); septic and sewage; water rights appropriation; and possibly others. In addition, compliance must be demonstrated with the Endangered Species Act and the National Historical Preservation Act consultation process. Possible county zoning and building permits and authorization may be required. Baseline environmental conditions are the basis by which direct and indirect project-related impacts are evaluated and by which potential mitigation measures are proposed. If our project is found to significantly adversely impact any of these baseline conditions, we could incur significant costs to correct the adverse impact, or might have to delay the start of production. California Laws A new mining operation in California, such as the Long Valley gold project, which is on federal unpatented mining claims within a National Forest, requires various federal, state and local permits. Mining projects require the establishment and presentation of environmental baseline conditions for air, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural, historical, geological, geotechnical, geochemical, soil, and socioeconomic parameters. An EIS would be required for any mining activities proposed on public lands. Also required would be a Plan of Operations/Reclamation Plan, and permits for waste-water discharge and wetland disturbance (dredge and fill); a county mining plan and reclamation plan; a county mining operations permit; special use permits from the U.S. Forest Service; and possibly others. In addition, compliance must be demonstrated with the Endangered Species Act and the National Historical Preservation Act consultation process. Possible county zoning and building permits and authorization may be required. Baseline environmental conditions are the basis by which direct and indirect project-related impacts are evaluated and by which potential mitigation measures are proposed. If our project is found to significantly adversely impact any of these baseline conditions, we could 16 incur significant costs to correct the adverse impact, or delay the start of production. In addition, on December 12, 2002, California adopted a "backfilling law" requiring open-pit surface mining operations for metallic minerals to back-fill the mines. While we have determined that the geometry of our Long Valley gold project would lend itself to compliance with this law, future adverse changes to this law could have a corresponding adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations, for example, by requiring changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. Mexico Laws We are required under Mexican laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before the Paredones Amarillos or Guadalupe de los Reyes gold projects can be developed and mined. Since the passage of Mexico's 1988 General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection, a sophisticated system for environmental regulation has evolved. In addition, the North American Free Trade Agreement requirements for regulatory standards in Mexico equivalent to those of the United States and Canada have obligated the Mexican government to continue further development of environmental regulation. Most regulatory programs are implemented by various divisions of the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources of Mexico ("SEMARNAT"). While we believe that we have or will be able to obtain on a timely basis the necessary permits to place the Paredones Amarillos gold project into production, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire updates to necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis. See discussions of Paredones Amarillos permit status under "Part II—Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other". Likewise, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire the necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis to place the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold project into production. Delays in acquiring any permit, authorization or updates could increase the development cost of the Paredones Amarillos gold project or the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold project, or delay the start of production. The most significant environmental permitting requirements, as they relate to the Paredones Amarillos and the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold projects are developing reports on environmental impacts; regulation and permitting of discharges to air, water and land; new source performance standards for specific air and water pollutant emitting sources; solid and hazardous waste management regulations; developing risk assessment reports; developing evacuation plans; and monitoring inventories of hazardous materials. If the Paredones Amarillos or the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold projects are found to not be in compliance with any of these requirements, we could incur significant compliance costs, or might have to delay the start of production. Australia Laws Mineral projects in the Northern Territory are subject to Northern Territory laws and regulations regarding environmental matters and the discharge of hazardous wastes and materials. As with all mining projects, the Mt. Todd gold project would be expected to have a variety of environmental impacts should development proceed. We are required under Australian laws and regulations (federal, state and territorial) to acquire permits and other authorizations before the Mt. Todd gold project can be developed and mined. In Australia, environmental legislation plays a significant role in the mining industry. Various environmental documents such as the EIS over the Mt. Todd gold project, covering studies on, inter alia, air, water, pollution, hazardous and toxic wastes, reclamation of mining area, etc. must be prepared and submitted to the Mining and Petroleum Authorizations and Evaluation Division of the Department of Primary Industries, Fisheries and Mines of the Northern Territory government for approval. The preparations of the EIS and related documents and other relevant environmental licenses would involve incurrence of time and costs and there is no assurance that those approvals/licenses can be obtained in a timely manner. The Northern Territory government also has administrative discretion not to approve the EIS documents or grant the required environmental licenses (including any renewal or extensions of such documents). We have entered into an agreement with the Northern Territory relating to environmental and rehabilitation issues. We must also comply with Aboriginal heritage legislation requirements which require heritage survey work to be undertaken prior to the commencement of mining operations. All these conditions may result in the occurrence of significant production costs and delay the production activity of the Mt. Todd gold project. 17 These conditions could frustrate investors seeking certainty in their investments, and as a result we may incur costs and time to manage any issues which may arise and that could possibly affect the overall mining activity of the Mt. Todd gold project. Indonesia Laws We are required under Indonesian laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before our current Indonesian mining project, the Awak Mas gold project, can be developed and mined. In Indonesia, environmental legislation plays a significant role in the mining industry. Various environmental documents such as the analysis of environmental impact ("AMDAL") concerning the Awak Mas gold project, covering studies on, inter alia, air, water, land, pollution, hazardous and toxic wastes and reclamation of mining area, must be prepared and submitted to the Ministry of Environment for approval. In addition, we are also required to submit periodical environmental reports to the relevant environmental government agencies pursuant to the AMDAL and other required environmental licenses (e.g. license for tailing waste). The preparation of AMDAL documents and other relevant environmental license documents involves incurrence of time and costs and there is no assurance that those approvals/licenses can be obtained in a timely manner. The Indonesian government also has administrative discretion not to approve AMDAL documents or grant the required environmental licenses (including any renewal or extensions of such documents). All these conditions may delay the production activity of the Awak Mas gold project. Failure to meet all of the requirements with respect to the above environmental documents, licensing and report submissions could cause us to be subject to administrative and criminal sanctions as well as fines. In extreme cases, the administrative sanctions can also be imposed in the form of revocation of our business license and the contract of work that we have with the Indonesian government. As well, from time to time the implementation of the regional autonomy law in Indonesia can cause uncertainty as to the existence and applicability of national and regional regulations (including in the environmental sector). Often regional regulations are in conflict with higher regulations that apply nationally. As a result we may incur cost and time to manage any issues which may arise and that could possibly affect the overall mining activity of the Awak Mas gold project. Disposal of Amayapampa Gold Project Our receipt of future payments in connection with our disposal of the Amayapampa gold project is subject to uncertainty. In April 2008, we announced the disposal of our wholly-owned subsidiary Vista Gold (Antigua) Corp. ("Vista Gold Antigua") to Republic. Vista Gold Antigua indirectly held our interest in the Amayapampa gold project in Bolivia. See "Part I—Financial Information—Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other—Disposal of Amayapampa gold project". Under the terms of the transaction, Republic has agreed to pay Vista $3.0 million in three payments of $1.0 million. The first of these payments is due and payable upon the start of commercial production (as defined in the purchase and sale agreement, see "Exhibit 10.39") at Amayapampa followed by $1.0 million payments on each of the first and second anniversaries of the start of commercial production. In addition, Republic has agreed to pay Vista a net smelter return royalty on the gold produced by or on behalf of Republic from the Amayapampa gold project in varying percentages depending on the price of gold per ounce. The Amayapampa gold project is not currently in production and we cannot assure that it will ever become a producing mine or, if production is commenced at the mine, the timing and amounts for any such production. Further, having disposed of the Amayapampa gold project, Vista will have no control over the development of this project. Depending on whether and when production commences at Amayapampa and levels of production achieved, receipt by of Vista of the future payments contemplated by the purchase and sale agreement for the Amayapampa gold project is subject to uncertainty. Finally a number of legal proceedings have been initiated in Bolivia with respect to the ownership interests in the mining concessions comprising the Amayapampa gold project. Although Vista Gold is not a party to these proceedings, if these challenges are successful, then Vista Gold may lose its royalty and payment stream described above. 18 Leverage as a result of our outstanding convertible notes may harm our financial condition and results of operations. On March 7, 2008, we announced the closing of a private placement in which we issued $30 million in aggregate principal amount of the Notes. The Notes are convertible into Common Shares of Vista Gold at the option of the holder at a conversion price of $6.00 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including if our Common Shares are trading on the NYSE Amex at less than $5.00 on March 4, 2009, or we issue Common Shares, or securities convertible into Common Shares, at a price of less than $6.00 during the term of the Notes, subject to a minimum conversion price of $4.80. Pursuant to the terms of the Notes, on March 4, 2009, the conversion price of the Notes was automatically adjusted from $6.00 per share to $4.80 per share. As a result of the adjustment, 6.25 million Common Shares are issuable upon conversion of the Notes. Prior to the adjustment 5 million Common Shares were issuable upon the conversion of the Notes. Upon conversion of the Notes, existing shareholders will suffer immediate dilution in their capital interest in Vista Gold. Further, the market price of our Common Shares could decline as a result of the conversion of the Notes and the sale into the market of the Common Shares underlying the Notes. These factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of Common Shares. The Notes bear interest at a rate of 10% per annum (calculated and payable semi-annually in arrears) and will mature on March 4, 2011. Our obligations under the Notes are guaranteed by our Mexican subsidiary, Minera Paredones Amarillos S.A. de C.V., and the guarantee is secured by the personal property and real property associated with the Paredones Amarillos gold project. Our level and the terms of our indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation that it: •will require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations, if any, to the payment of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities; •could increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and •depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future ability to generate funds, including through operating cash flows, which will be subject to the potential development of certain of our properties into producing mines, metal prices, prevailing economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we cannot raise sufficient funds or our cash flows were to prove inadequate to meet our debt service and other obligations in the future, we may be required, among other things: •to obtain additional financing in the debt or equity markets; •to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or •to sell selected assets. We cannot assure you that such measures will be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operation, and additional financings, borrowings or refinancings, or proceeds of asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet our obligations, including payments on the Notes. See "—Recent market events and conditions" and "—General economic conditions". We face intense competition in the mining industry. The mining industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we 19 consider acceptable. We also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. If we are unable to successfully compete for qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended. We compete with other gold companies for capital. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, our exploration and development programs may be jeopardized or we may not be able to acquire, develop or operate gold projects. We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms. The exploration and development of our properties, specifically the construction of mining facilities and commencement of mining operations, require substantial additional financing. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from each of our properties. We will have to raise additional funds from external sources in order to maintain and advance our existing property positions and to acquire new gold projects. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms and, if additional financing is not available, we may have to substantially reduce or cease our operations. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies. C. Thomas Ogryzlo is the President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of Polaris Geothermal Inc. and is a director of Birim Goldfields Inc. and Baja Mining Corp. Michael B. Richings, who is also our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is a director of Allied Nevada Gold Corp., which holds interests in mining properties. John Clark is a director of Alberta Clipper Energy Inc. (a Canadian oil and gas exploration and production company) and Chief Financial Officer and a director of Polaris Geothermal Inc. W. Durand Eppler is director of Allied Nevada Gold Corp. and Augusta Resource Corporation, and a director and non-executive chairman of NEMI Northern Energy & Mining Inc. Tracy Stevenson is the non-executive chairman of Quaterra Resources Inc. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. In the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict at a meeting of the directors of the company in question and to abstain from voting for or against approval of any matter in which such director may have a conflict. In appropriate cases, the company in question will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. In accordance with the laws of the Yukon Territory, the directors of all Yukon Territory companies are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of a company for which they serve as a director. There may be challenges to our title in our mineral properties. There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. If there are title defects with respect to any of our properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert management's time from ongoing exploration and development programs. Our property interests in Mexico and Indonesia are subject to risks from political and economic instability in those countries. We have property interests in Mexico and Indonesia which may be affected by risks associated with political or economic instability in those countries. The risks include, but are not limited to: military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, labor instability or militancy, mineral title irregularities and high rates of inflation. In addition, changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Mexico or Indonesia may adversely affect our business. We may be affected in varying degrees by government regulation with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. 20 Our financial position and results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency values. Because we have mining exploration and evaluation operations in North and South America and in Australia and Indonesia, we are subject to foreign currency fluctuations, which may materially affect our financial position and results. We do not engage in currency hedging to offset any risk of currency fluctuations. We measure and report our financial results in U.S. dollars. We have mining projects in Mexico, Australia and Indonesia, and we are looking for other projects elsewhere in the world. Economic conditions and monetary policies in these countries can result in severe currency fluctuations. Currently all our material transactions in Mexico, Australia and Indonesia are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if we were to begin commercial operations in any of these or other countries, it is possible that material transactions incurred in the local currency, such as engagement of local contractors for major projects, will be settled at a U.S. dollar value that is different from the U.S. dollar value of the transaction at the time it was incurred. This could have the effect of undermining profits from operations in that country. Future sales of our Common Shares in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our Common Shares and our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our Common Shares or securities exchangeable, convertible or exercisable for Common Shares in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our Common Shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. In March 2008, we announced the closing of a private placement in which we issued $30 million in aggregate principal amount the Notes. (See "Leverage as a result of our outstanding convertible notes may harm our financial condition and results of operations" above.) The Notes are convertible into Common Shares at the option of the holder at a conversion price of $6.00 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including if our Common Shares are trading on the NYSE Amex at less than $5.00 on March 4, 2009, or we issue Common Shares, or securities into Common Shares, at a price of less than $6.00 during the term of the Notes, subject to a minimum conversion price of $4.80. Pursuant to the terms of the Notes, on March 4, 2009, the conversion price of the Notes was automatically adjusted from $6.00 per share to $4.80 per share. As a result of the adjustment, 6.25 million Common Shares are issuable upon conversion of the Notes. Prior to the adjustment 5 million Common Shares were issuable upon the conversion of the Notes. Shareholders would suffer dilution upon the conversion of the Notes into our Common Shares. For example, if all $30 million of outstanding Notes were converted at the minimum conversion price of $4.80, this would result in the issuance of an additional 6,250,000 Common Shares, or 18.1% of our issued and outstanding Common Shares on March 10, 2009, upon conversion of the Notes. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of Common Shares or securities exchangeable, convertible or exercisable for Common Shares or the availability of Common Shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our Common Shares. It may be difficult to enforce judgments or bring actions outside the United States against us and certain of our directors and officers. Vista Gold is a Canadian corporation and certain of its directors and officers are neither citizens nor residents of the United States. A substantial part of the assets of several of these persons, and of Vista Gold, are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for an investor: •to enforce in courts outside the United States judgments obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws against these persons and Vista Gold; or •to bring in courts outside the United States an original action to enforce liabilities based upon United States federal securities laws against these persons and Vista Gold. Recent market events and conditions In 2007 and into 2008, the U.S. credit markets began to experience serious disruption due to a deterioration in residential property values, defaults and delinquencies in the residential mortgage market (particularly, sub-prime and non-prime mortgages) and a decline in the credit quality of mortgage backed securities. These 21 problems led to a slow-down in residential housing market transactions, declining housing prices, delinquencies in non-mortgage consumer credit and a general decline in consumer confidence. These conditions continued and worsened in 2008, causing a loss of confidence in the broader U.S. and global credit and financial markets and resulting in the collapse of, and government intervention in, major banks, financial institutions and insurers and creating a climate of greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Notwithstanding various actions by the U.S. and foreign governments, concerns about the general condition of the capital markets, financial instruments, banks, investment banks, insurers and other financial institutions caused the broader credit markets to further deteriorate and stock markets to decline substantially. In addition, general economic indicators have deteriorated, including declining consumer sentiment, increased unemployment and declining economic growth and uncertainty about corporate earnings. These unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for Vista Gold to obtain, or increase its cost of obtaining, capital and financing for its operations. Vista Gold's access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to it or at all. General economic conditions The recent unprecedented events in global financial markets have had a profound impact on the global economy. Many industries, including the gold mining industry, are impacted by these market conditions. Some of the key impacts of the current financial market turmoil include contraction in credit markets resulting in a widening of credit risk, devaluations and high volatility in global equity, commodity, foreign exchange and precious metal markets, and a lack of market liquidity. A continued or worsened slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to, consumer spending, employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates, and tax rates may adversely affect Vista Gold's growth and profitability. Specifically: •The global credit/liquidity crisis could impact the cost and availability of financing and our overall liquidity; •the volatility of gold prices may impact our revenues, profits and cash flow; •volatile energy prices, commodity and consumables prices and currency exchange rates impact potential production costs; and •the devaluation and volatility of global stock markets impacts the valuation of our equity securities These factors could have a material adverse effect on Vista Gold's financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 22 