ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company or otherwise associated with an investment in our securities. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, and have attempted to include all material risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We cannot be certain that our acquisition, exploration and development activities will be commercially successful or that any transaction we enter into will maximize the realization of the market value of our assets. We currently have no properties that produce gold in commercial quantities. Substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties, to establish mineral reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. We cannot be assured that any mineral reserves or mineral resources acquired or discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. In addition, we have entered, may in the future enter, into agreements with third parties to realize the market value of certain of our 16 assets. There is no assurance that transactions resulting from such agreements will maximize or realize the market value of our assets. We have no history of producing metals from our current mineral properties and limited recent experience with producing mines; there can be no assurance that we will successfully establish mining operations or profitably produce precious metals. We have no history of producing metals from our current mineral properties. We do not produce gold and do not currently generate operating earnings. While we seek to move the Mt. Todd and Concordia gold projects into production, such efforts will be subject to all of the risks associated with establishing new mining operations and business enterprises, including: •the timing and cost, which are considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities; •the ability to find sufficient gold reserves to support a profitable mining operation; •the availability and costs of skilled labor and mining equipment; •compliance with environmental and other governmental approval and permit requirements; •the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities; •potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups, local groups or local inhabitants that may delay or prevent development activities; and •potential increases in construction and operating costs due to changes in the cost of labor, fuel, power, materials and supplies. The costs, timing and complexities of mine construction and development may be increased by the remote location of our properties. It is common in new mining operations to experience unexpected problems and delays during construction, development and mine start-up. In addition, management of Vista will need to be expanded. This could result in delays in the commencement of mineral production and increased costs of production. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our activities will result in profitable mining operations or that we will successfully establish mining operations. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses in all periods since inception, except for the year ended December 31, 2011, and may incur net losses in the future. We reported the following earnings/(losses) from operations during each of the following periods: •approximately $50,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011; •approximately ($20,000) for the year ended December 31, 2010; and •approximately ($6,000) for the year ended December 31, 2009. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $265,000 as at December 31, 2011 and $315,000 and $295,000 as at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. We expect to continue to incur losses unless and until such time as one of our properties enters into commercial production and generates sufficient revenues to fund continuing operations. We have committed and plan to continue to commit substantial capital and other resources to the ongoing development of the Mt. Todd gold project. The amount and timing of future expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the progress of ongoing development and operations, permitting matters, the timing of development, 17 the costs of production, the commercial viability of production and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure investors that we will ever achieve profitability. Feasibility study results and preliminary assessment results are based on estimates that are subject to uncertainty. Feasibility studies are used to determine the economic viability of a deposit, as are pre-feasibility studies and preliminary assessments. Feasibility studies are the most detailed and reflect a higher level of confidence in the reported capital and operating costs. Generally accepted levels of confidence are plus or minus 15% for feasibility studies, plus or minus 25-30% for pre-feasibility studies and plus or minus 35-40% for preliminary assessments. These levels reflect the levels of confidence that exist at the time the study is completed. While these studies are based on the best information available to us for the level of study, we cannot be certain that actual costs will not significantly exceed the estimated cost. While we incorporate what we believe is an appropriate contingency factor in cost estimates to account for this uncertainty, there can be no assurance that the contingency factor is adequate. The economic viability of a mineral deposit is based on many factors that are subject to uncertainty. Many factors are involved in the determination of the economic viability of a mineral deposit, including the achievement of satisfactory mineral reserve estimates, the level of estimated metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating cost estimates and estimates of future gold prices. Resource estimates are based on the assay results of many intervals from many drill holes and the interpolation of those results between holes. Mineral reserve estimates may be materially affected by metallurgical, environmental, permitting, legal title, socio-economic factors, marketing, political and other factors. There is no certainty that metallurgical recoveries obtained in bench scale or pilot plant scale tests will be achieved in commercial operations. Capital and operating cost estimates are based upon many factors, including anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the orebody, ground and mining conditions, expected recovery rates of the gold from the ore and anticipated environmental and regulatory compliance costs. Each of these factors involves uncertainties, and as a result, we cannot give any assurance that our development or exploration projects will become operating mines. Further, it may take many years from the initial phase of drilling before production is possible, and during that time, the economic feasibility of exploiting a discovery may change as the result of changing commodity and supply costs. If a mine is developed, actual operating results may differ from those anticipated in a feasibility study. We require certain governmental authorizations and permits for our business, including our development plans and operating activities. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions to our business if we cannot obtain, renew or maintain the necessary authorizations and permits. A major risk inherent in our business is the requirement to obtain authorizations and permits from governmental authorities. Delays in obtaining authorizations or permits, failure to obtain an authorization or permit or receipt of an authorization or permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop one or more of our gold projects, including, but not limited to, the Mt. Todd gold project. The failure to obtain necessary permits could result in an impairment and write down of the carrying value of our projects. As we proceed with development at the Mt. Todd gold project, we may experience delays in the commencement of construction due to delays in receiving any required permits. There can be no assurance whether or when construction at the Mt. Todd gold project will commence. If we are unable to acquire the necessary permits for construction and mining at the Mt. Todd gold project, then we will not have mineral reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 or NI 43-101, which could result in an impairment and write down of the carrying value of the project. We are awaiting receipt of certain permits needed before construction can begin at the Concordia gold project. We continue to experience delays in the commencement of construction on the Concordia gold project due to delays in receiving the required permits. There can be no assurance whether or when construction at the Concordia gold project will commence. If we (whether ourselves or through Invecture as part of Invecutre's 18 exercise of the Earn-in Right) are unable to acquire the required permits to mine the Concordia gold project, then the Concordia gold project will not have mineral reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 or NI 43-101, which could result in an impairment and write down of the carrying value of the project. Potential development at the Mt. Todd gold project depends, in part, on obtaining a positive definitive feasibility study. We have engaged independent consultants to prepare a definitive feasibility study on the Mt. Todd gold project. There can be no assurance that the results of the definitive feasibility study will be positive or that such study will be completed when expected. If the results of the definitive feasibility study are positive, we may be unable to raise additional capital required to construct a mine at the Mt. Todd gold project (see "We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms" below). There may be delays in commencement of construction on the Mt. Todd gold project. Delays in commencement of construction could result from delays in receiving the required governmental permits or from factors such as availability and performance of engineering and construction contractors, suppliers and consultants; availability of required equipment and receipt of required governmental approvals. Any delay in the performance of any one or more of the contractors, suppliers, consultants or other persons on which we depend, or lack of availability of required equipment, or delay or failure to receive required governmental approvals, could delay or prevent commencement of construction at the Mt. Todd gold project. There can be no assurance whether or when construction at the Mt. Todd gold project will commence or that the necessary personnel, equipment or supplies will be available to us if and when construction is commenced. If we are unable to acquire permits to mine the property, then we will have no reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and NI 43-101, which could result in an impairment and write down of the carrying value of the project. There may be delays in commencement of construction on the Concordia gold project. Delays in commencement of construction could result from delays in receiving the required governmental permits, including permits related to the construction of the desalination plant, pipeline, power line; or widening of the public access road; or from factors such as availability and performance of engineering and construction contractors, suppliers and consultants, availability of required equipment and receipt of required governmental approvals. Any delay in the performance of any one or more of the contractors, suppliers, consultants, Invecture or other persons on which we depend, or lack of availability of required equipment, or delay or failure to receive required governmental approvals, could delay or prevent commencement of construction at the Concordia gold project. There can be no assurance whether or when construction at the Concordia gold project will commence or that the necessary personnel, equipment or supplies will be available if and when construction is commenced. If we (whether ourselves or through Invecture as part of Invecture's exercise of the Earn-in Right) are unable to acquire permits to mine the property, then we will have no reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and NI 43-101, which could result in an impairment and write down of the carrying value of the project. Failure to secure permits for the Mt. Todd gold project could negatively impact our mineral reserves. We have not received all of the governmental permits for the Mt. Todd gold project. There are many variables and uncertainties involved throughout the permitting process and approval is not guaranteed. If we are unable to secure all necessary permits, Australian law will prohibit us from mining the Mt. Todd gold project and, accordingly, we will have no reserves at the Mt. Todd gold project under SEC Industry Guide 7 and NI 43-101, which could result in an impairment and write down of the carrying value of the project. There may be delays in obtaining the CUSF or a failure in obtaining the CUSF for the Concordia gold project, which could negatively impact the Company's mineral reserves. Our initial CUSF application was dismissed on administrative grounds by SEMARNAT. Specifically, SEMARNAT dismissed the CUSF application, without a review of its substantive merit, for the alleged failure by our Mexican subsidiary, Desarrollos Zapal S.A. de C.V., to provide certain information and satisfy procedural 19 requirements. We are currently working to clarify SEMARNAT's specific requirements. We (whether ourselves or through Invecture as part of Invecture's exercise of the Earn-in Right) intend to make the appropriate amendments and re-file a new CUSF application. The CUSF is required before we can commence construction of the Concordia gold project. Amending and resubmitting the CUSF application for review by SEMARNAT will cause unknown delays in the commencement of the Concordia gold project. There are many variables and uncertainties involved throughout the CUSF application approval process, which could further delay the application and therefore further delay commencement of the Concordia gold project. If we are unable to secure a CUSF, Mexican law will prohibit us from mining the Concordia gold project and, accordingly, we will have no reserves at the Concordia gold project under SEC Industry Guide 7 and NI 43-101, which could result in an impairment and write down of the carrying value of the project. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. We anticipate that costs at our projects, including the Mt. Todd gold project, Guadalupe de Los Reyes gold/silver project, Concordia gold project and Awak Mas gold project, as well as other properties that we may explore or develop, will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the mineral deposit. In addition, costs are affected by the costs of labor and the price of commodities such as fuel and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any project could have a significant effect on our profitability and could result in an impairment charge. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and development operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. Joint ventures and other partnerships in relation to our properties may expose us to risks. We have entered into, and may enter into, joint ventures or other partnership arrangements with other parties in relation to the exploration, development and production of properties in which we have an interest. Joint ventures can often require unanimous approval of the parties to the joint venture or their representatives for certain fundamental decisions, such as an increase or reduction of registered capital, merger, division, dissolution, amendments of constating documents and the pledge of joint venture assets, which means that each joint venture party may have a veto right with respect to such decisions, which could lead to a deadlock in the operations of the joint venture or partnership. Further, we may be unable to exert control over strategic decisions made in respect of such properties. Any failure of such other companies to meet their obligations to us or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties' respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the joint ventures or their properties and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, cash flows and the price of our securities. We rely on third parties to fulfill their obligations under agreements, which may not be successful, and non-managed projects may not comply with our standards or meet our objectives. We have entered into agreements with Awak Mas Holdings Pty. ("Awak Mas Holdings") pursuant to which Awak Mas Holdings has an option to acquire up to an 80% beneficial interest in the Awak Mas gold project. In addition, we have granted Invecture the right to earn a 60% interest in the Concordia gold project. We may enter into similar arrangements with respect to our properties in the future. Awak Mas Holdings currently operates the Awak Mas gold project and Invecture currently operates the Concordia gold project. Although we have sought to protect our interests in relation to our arrangements with Awak Mas Holdings and Invecture, these transactions necessarily involve special risks. Whether or not we hold majority interest or maintain operational control in the projects we hold an interest in, our partners may (i) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with or opposed to ours; (ii) exercise veto rights so as to block actions that 20 we believe to be in the best interests of the project; (iii) take action contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to our investments; or (iv) as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture, option, earn-in right or other agreements, such as contributing capital for the expansion or maintenance of projects. Where projects and operations are controlled and managed by our partners, we may provide expertise and advice, but we have limited control with respect to compliance with our standards and objectives. Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls could adversely affect the value of the related non-managed projects and operations and, by association, damage our reputation and thereby harm our operations, value of assets and access to new assets. In addition, the exploration and development of our projects (including Awak Mas and Concordia gold projects) require substantial additional financing. If Awak Mas Holdings, Invecture or any of our other partners are unable to satisfy the funding obligations under their respective agreements with us, we will have to raise funds from external sources in order to maintain and advance its projects. See "We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms". Acquisitions and integration issues may expose us to risks. Our business strategy includes making targeted acquisitions. Any acquisition that we make may be of a significant size, may change the scale of our business and operations, and may expose us to new geographic, political, operating, financial and geological risks. Our success in our acquisition activities depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for any such acquisition and integrate the acquired operations successfully with our operations. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks. For example, there may be significant decreases in commodity prices after we have committed to complete the transaction and have established the purchase price or exchange ratio; a material mineral deposit may prove to be below expectations; we may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realizing anticipated synergies and maximizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise and maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls across the organization; the integration of the acquired business or assets may disrupt our ongoing business and our relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and contractors; and the acquired business or assets may have unknown liabilities that may be significant. If we choose to use equity securities as consideration for such an acquisition, existing shareholders may suffer dilution. Alternatively, we may choose to finance any such acquisition with our existing resources. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. The issuance of additional Common Shares may negatively impact the trading price of our securities. We have issued equity securities in the past and may continue to issue equity securities to finance our activities in the future, including to finance future acquisitions, or as consideration for acquisitions of businesses or assets. In addition, outstanding options, restricted stock units, warrants and broker warrants to purchase Common Shares may be exercised, resulting in the issuance of additional Common Shares. The issuance by us of additional Common Shares would result in dilution to our shareholders, and even the perception that such an issuance may occur could have a negative impact on the trading price of our securities. The price of our securities may fluctuate and may result in losses to investors. The trading price of Common Shares has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations, which may result in losses to investors. The high and low intraday sale prices of Common Shares, respectively, on the NYSE AMEX were $3.38 and $1.16 in 2009; $3.45 and $1.30 in 2010 and $4.59 and $2.39 in 2011 and on the TSX were C$3.63 and C$1.40 in 2009; C$3.59 and C$1.33 in 2010 and C$4.55 and C$2.40 in 2011. The high and low intraday sales prices of Common Shares, respectively, on the NYSE AMEX were $3.46 and $3.34 and on the TSX were C$3.41 and C$3.31 on March 12, 2012. The trading price of the Listed Warrants may be subject to large fluctuations, which may result in losses to investors. The high and low intraday sale prices of the Listed Warrants, respectively, on the TSX were C$0.70 and C$0.65 on March 12, 2012. The trading price of the 21 Common Shares and Listed Warrants may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: •material events in our business; •trends in the gold mining industry and the markets in which we operate; •changes in the price of gold; •changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; •acquisitions and financings; •global and regional political and economic conditions and other factors; •general stock market conditions; •the operating and share performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and •purchase or sales of blocks of the Common Shares or warrants. This volatility may adversely impact the price of the Common Shares or warrants regardless of our operating performance. We have never declared dividends. We have never declared or paid any dividends on the Common Shares. Currently, we intend to retain our earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of the business and do not expect to pay dividends or to make any other distributions in the future, which may limit the way in which investors may realize any returns on their investment. We cannot be certain that the market price of securities held by us will be sustained or increased. Our investments in securities of other public companies (including our investment in Midas Gold) are subject to volatility in the share prices of such companies. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for any of the subject shares is sustainable. The trading prices of the subject shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors beyond our control, including success (or failure) of exploration and development activities, quarterly variations in the subject companies' results of operations, changes in earnings (if any), estimates made by analysts, conditions in the industry of such companies and macroeconomic developments in North America and globally, currency fluctuations and market perceptions of the mining industry. Such market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our investments and the value that we could realize on such investments. Our continuing historical reclamation obligations at the Mt. Todd gold project and our reclamation requirements on our other properties could require significant additional expenditures. We could be responsible for the reclamation obligations related to previous disturbances located on all of its properties, including the Mt. Todd gold project. The Mt. Todd site was not reclaimed when the original mine closed, and as a result, the dumps and heap leach pad require ongoing care and maintenance. We provide that care and maintenance, but will not be responsible for the environmental liability resulting from previous operations until we make the decision to re-open the mine and have received the appropriate permits. The reclamation obligations of the historic operations involve substantially the same areas that we would be required to reclaim if we were to undertake a proposed operation on the property. The obligation therefore would not necessarily involve a substantially greater obligation than we would assume for our own proposed operations. The award of the permits to us would require an agreement by us to provide a bond in a form satisfactory to the Northern Territory Government that would cover the expense of the reclamation of the property. The 22 satisfaction of any bonding requirements and continuing or future reclamation obligations on our properties will require a significant amount of capital. There is a risk that we will be unable to fund these historical and future reclamation requirements, and further, that the regulatory authorities may increase reclamation and bonding requirements to such a degree that it would not be commercially reasonable to continue exploration or development activities on such properties, including at the Mt. Todd gold project. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, cash flows and the price of our securities. Historical production of gold at our Mt. Todd gold project may not be indicative of the potential for future development or revenue. The Mt. Todd gold project was an operating mine in the late 1990's. Based on a review of project files, we believe that approximately 27.1 million short tons grading 0.031 gold ounces per ton and containing 826,000 ounces of gold were extracted between 1996 and the termination of mining in 2000. Processing was by a combination of heap leach production from oxide ore and cyanidation of sulfide ore. The remaining mineralization consists of sulfide mineralization lying below and along strike of the existing open pit. Historical production of gold from the Mt. Todd gold project may not be indicative of the potential for future development of the property. Due to the uncertainties associated with exploration and development, including variations in geology and structure, there is no assurance that our development efforts will be successful or that prior operating results are reflective of additional or economically developable deposits. Investors in our securities should not rely on historical operations as an indication that our mining properties will be placed into commercial production again or that such properties will produce revenues or be profitable. We cannot assure you that we will have an adequate supply of water to complete desired exploration or development of our mining properties. We have obtained permits and water rights that we currently use to service the activities on our various properties and we plan to obtain all required permits and water rights to serve other properties we may develop or acquire in the future. However, the amount of water that we are entitled to use pursuant to our water rights must be determined by the appropriate regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such regulatory authorities may amend the regulations regarding such water rights, increase the cost of maintaining such water rights or eliminate our current water rights, and we may be unable to retain all or a portion of such water rights. In addition, water at the Mt. Todd gold project is expected to be provided from a raw water dam and reservoir. Drought or drought-like conditions in the area feeding the reservoir could limit or extinguish this water supply. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will have access to the amount of water needed to explore or develop our properties or to operate a mine at our properties, which may prevent us from generating revenue, and which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and the price of our securities. We could be subject to environmental lawsuits. Neighboring landowners and other third parties could file claims based on environmental statutes and common law for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste material into the environment on or around our properties. There can be no assurance that our defense of such claims will be successful. A successful claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operation and the price of our securities. We do not insure against all risks to which we may be subject in our planned operations. We do not maintain insurance to cover all of the potential risks associated with our operations or future operations. We may also be unable to obtain insurance to cover other risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available, or may not be adequate to cover all liabilities. We might also become subject to liability for environmental, pollution or other hazards associated with mineral exploration and production that we may not be insured against, which may exceed the limits of our insurance 23 coverage or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause us to incur significant costs that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fund activities on our properties. A significant loss or liability could force us to reduce or terminate our operations on a specific project or altogether. If we fail to hire and retain our key personnel, we may have an adverse effect on our operations. We depend on a number of key personnel, including Frederick H. Earnest, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Vista, and Terri L. Eggert, the Interim Chief Financial Officer of Vista. We rely heavily on these individuals for the conduct of our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key officers and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any or all of such officers. The loss of any one of these personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. We have employment contracts with each of these key personnel. We do not have key man life insurance. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our management systems and to recruit and train new employees. Although we have done so in the past and expect to do so in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining skilled and experienced personnel. The price of gold is subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect the realizable value of our assets and potential future results of operations and cash flows. Our principal assets are mineral reserves and mineral resources, cash, certain mill equipment and the Midas Gold Shares. We intend to attempt to acquire additional properties containing mineral reserves and mineral resources. The price that we pay to acquire these properties will be, in large part, influenced by the price of gold at the time of the acquisition. Our potential future revenues are expected to be, in large part, derived from the mining and sale of gold from these properties or from the outright sale or joint venture of some of these properties. The value of these mineral reserves and mineral resources, and the value of any potential gold production therefrom, will vary in proportion to variations in gold prices. The price of gold has fluctuated widely, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, international, economic and political trends; expectations of inflation; currency exchange fluctuations; central bank activities; interest rates; global or regional consumption patterns and speculative activities. The effect of these factors on the price of gold, and therefore the economic viability of any of our projects, cannot accurately be predicted. Any drop in the price of gold would adversely affect our asset values, cash flows, potential revenues and profits. Mining exploration, development and operating activities are inherently hazardous. Mineral exploration involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed any liability insurance policy limits. It is also possible that the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or, we could elect not to be insured against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event, we could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Calculations of mineral reserves and of mineral resources are estimates only, subject to uncertainty due to factors, including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore and recoverability of metal in the mining process. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves and corresponding grades dedicated to future production. Until mineral reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of mineral reserves and ore may vary depending on metal prices. Estimates of mineral resources are subject to uncertainty as well. The estimating of mineral reserves and mineral resources is a subjective process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quantity and quality of available data and the assumptions used and judgments made in interpreting 24 engineering and geological information. There is significant uncertainty in any reserve or resource estimate, and the actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of mining a deposit may differ materially from our estimates. Estimated mineral reserves or mineral resources may have to be recalculated based on changes in metal prices, further exploration or development activity or actual production experience. This could materially and adversely affect estimates of the volume or grade of mineralization, estimated recovery rates or other important factors that influence estimates of mineral reserves or mineral resources. Any material change in the quantity of mineral reserves, mineral resources, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. Our exploration and development operations are subject to environmental regulations, which could result in us incurring additional costs and operational delays. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is evolving in some countries or jurisdictions in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our projects. We are currently subject to U.S. federal and state government environmental regulations with respect to its project in California in the United States. We are also currently subject to environmental regulations with respect to our properties in Australia, Mexico and Indonesia. U.S. Federal Laws The U.S. Bureau of Land Management requires that mining operations on lands subject to its regulation obtain an approved plan of operations subject to environmental impact evaluation under the National Environmental Policy Act. Any significant modifications to the plan of operations may require the completion of an environmental assessment or Environmental Impact Statement ("EIS") prior to approval. Mining companies must post a bond or other surety to guarantee the cost of post-mining reclamation. These requirements could add significant additional cost and delays to any mining project we undertake. Under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, mining companies may incur costs for generating, transporting, treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste, as well as for closure and post-closure maintenance once they have completed mining activities on a property. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, storage facilities, and the use of mobile sources, such as trucks and heavy construction equipment, that are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Federal Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. Permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA"), imposes strict, joint and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. Those liable groups include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities who release hazardous substances into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time the disposal of the hazardous substances occurred. This liability could include the cost of removal or remediation of the release and damages for injury to the surrounding property. We cannot predict the potential for future CERCLA liability with respect to our U.S. properties. California Laws A new mining operation in California, such as the Long Valley gold project which is on federal unpatented mining claims within a National Forest, requires various federal, state and local permits. Mining projects require the establishment and presentation of environmental baseline conditions for air, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural, historical, geological, geotechnical, geochemical, soil and socioeconomic parameters. An EIS would be 25 required for any mining activities proposed on public lands. Also required would be a Plan of Operations/Reclamation Plan, and permits for waste-water discharge and wetland disturbance (dredge and fill); a county mining plan and reclamation plan; a county mining operations permit; special use permits from the U.S. Forest Service; and possibly others. In addition, compliance must be demonstrated with the Endangered Species Act and the National Historical Preservation Act consultation process. Possible county zoning and building permits and authorization may be required. Baseline environmental conditions are the basis by which direct and indirect project-related impacts are evaluated and by which potential mitigation measures are proposed. If the Long Valley gold project is found to significantly adversely impact any of these baseline conditions, we could incur significant costs to correct the adverse impact, or delay the start of production. In addition, on December 12, 2002, California adopted a "backfilling law" requiring open-pit surface mining operations for metallic minerals to back-fill the mines. While we have determined that the geometry of the Long Valley gold project would lend itself to compliance with this law, future adverse changes to this law could have a corresponding adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations, for example, by requiring changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. Australia Laws Mineral projects in the Northern Territory are subject to Australian federal and Northern Territory laws and regulations regarding environmental matters and the discharge of hazardous wastes and materials. As with all mining projects, the Mt. Todd gold project would be expected to have a variety of environmental impacts should development proceed. We are required under Australian laws and regulations (federal, state and territorial) to acquire permits and other authorizations before the Mt. Todd gold project can be developed and mined. In Australia, environmental legislation plays a significant role in the mining industry. Various environmental documents, such as the EIS over the Mt. Todd gold project, covering studies on inter alia, air, water, pollution, hazardous and toxic wastes, reclamation of mining area, etc., must be prepared and submitted to the Northern Territory Minister For Natural Resources, Environment and Heritage and the Australian Government Minister For Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and Communities for approval. The preparation of the EIS and related documents and other relevant environmental licenses would involve incurrence of time and costs and there is no assurance that those approvals/licenses can be obtained in a timely manner. The Northern Territory government also has administrative discretion not to approve the EIS documents or grant the required environmental licenses (including any renewal or extensions of such documents). We have entered into an agreement with the Northern Territory relating to environmental and rehabilitation issues. We must also comply with Aboriginal heritage legislation requirements, which require heritage survey work to be undertaken prior to the commencement of mining operations. All these conditions may result in the occurrence of significant production costs and may delay the production activity of the Mt. Todd gold project. These conditions could frustrate investors seeking certainty in their investments, and as a result, we may incur costs and time to manage any issues that may arise and that could possibly affect the overall mining activity of the Mt. Todd gold project. Mexico Laws We are required under Mexican laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project or the Concordia gold project can be developed and mined. Since the passage of Mexico's 1988 General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection, a sophisticated system for environmental regulation has evolved. In addition, the North American Free Trade Agreement requirements for regulatory standards in Mexico equivalent to those of the United States and Canada have obligated the Mexican government to continue further development of environmental regulation. Most regulatory programs are implemented by various divisions of SEMARNAT. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire the necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis to complete evaluation activities or to place the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project into production. Delays in acquiring any permit, authorization or updates could increase the development cost of the 26 Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project or delay the start of production. The most significant environmental permitting requirements, as they relate to the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project, are developing reports on environmental impacts; regulation and permitting of discharges to air, water and land; new source performance standards for specific air and water pollutant emitting sources; solid and hazardous waste management regulations; developing risk assessment reports; developing evacuation plans; and monitoring inventories of hazardous materials. If the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project is found to not be in compliance with any of these requirements, we could incur significant compliance costs, or might have to delay the start of production. While we believe that we have or we or Invecture will be able to obtain the necessary permits to place the Concordia gold project into production, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire updates to necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis. Delays in acquiring any permit, authorization or updates could increase the development cost of the Concordia gold project, or delay the start of production. The most significant environmental permitting requirements, as they relate to the Concordia gold project, are developing reports on environmental impacts; regulation and permitting of discharges to air, water and land; new source performance standards for specific air and water pollutant emitting sources; solid and hazardous waste management regulations; developing risk assessment reports; developing evacuation plans; and monitoring inventories of hazardous materials. In order to exercise its earn-in right, Invecture will need to obtain such reports on environmental impact. There is no certainty that Invecture will be successful or that it will meet the conditions necessary to exercise its earn-in right with respect to the Concordia gold project. If the Concordia gold project is found to not be in compliance with any of these requirements, we could incur significant compliance costs, or might have to delay the start of production. Indonesia Laws We are required under Indonesian laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before our Indonesian mining project, the Awak Mas gold project, can be developed and mined. In Indonesia, environmental legislation plays a significant role in the mining industry. Various environmental documents, such as the analysis of environmental impact ("AMDAL") concerning the Awak Mas gold project, covering studies on inter alia, air, water, land, pollution, hazardous and toxic wastes and reclamation of mining area, must be prepared and submitted to the Ministry of Environment for approval. In addition, we are also required to submit periodical environmental reports to the relevant environmental government agencies pursuant to the AMDAL and other required environmental licenses (e.g. license for tailing waste). The preparation of AMDAL documents and other relevant environmental license documents involves incurrence of time and costs and there is no assurance that those approvals/licenses can be obtained in a timely manner. The Indonesian government also has administrative discretion not to approve AMDAL documents or grant the required environmental licenses (including any renewal or extensions of such documents). All these conditions may delay the production activity of the Awak Mas gold project. Failure to meet all of the requirements with respect to the above environmental documents, licensing and report submissions could cause us to be subject to administrative and criminal sanctions as well as fines. In extreme cases, the administrative sanctions can also be imposed in the form of revocation of our business license and the contract of work that we have with the Indonesian government. As well, from time to time, the implementation of the regional autonomy law in Indonesia can cause uncertainty as to the existence and applicability of national and regional regulations (including in the environmental sector). Often regional regulations are in conflict with higher regulations that apply nationally. As a result, we may incur cost and time to manage any issues that may arise and that could possibly affect the overall mining activity of the Awak Mas gold project. 27 Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our venture partners and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the emotion, political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our securities. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulated organizations, including Canadian securities regulatory authorities, the SEC, the NYSE AMEX, the TSX and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. For example, on July 21, 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our receipt of future payments in connection with our disposal of the Amayapampa gold project is subject to uncertainty. In April 2008, we announced the disposal of our wholly-owned subsidiary Vista Gold (Antigua) Corp. ("Vista Gold Antigua") to Republic Gold Limited ("Republic"). Vista Gold Antigua indirectly held our interest in the Amayapampa gold project in Bolivia. Under the terms of the transaction, Republic agreed to pay us $3,000 in three equal payments of $1,000. The first of these payments is due and payable upon the start of commercial production at Amayapampa, followed by $1,000 payments on each of the first and second anniversaries of the start of commercial production. In addition, Republic has agreed to pay us a net smelter return royalty on the gold produced by or on behalf of Republic from the Amayapampa gold project in varying percentages depending on the price of gold per ounce. In February 2012, Republic reported that it had suspended activities at the Amayapampa gold project. The Amayapampa gold project is not currently in production and we cannot assure that the project will ever become a producing mine or, if production is commenced at the mine, the timing and amounts for any such production. Further, having disposed of the Amayapampa gold project, we have no control over the development of the project. Depending on whether and when production commences at Amayapampa and levels of production achieved, receipt by us of the future payments contemplated by the purchase and sale agreement for the Amayapampa gold project is subject to uncertainty. At this time, it is uncertain whether Republic will advance the Amayapampa gold project. 28 We face intense competition in the mining industry. The mining industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable. We also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. If we are unable to successfully compete for qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended. We compete with other gold companies for capital. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, our exploration and development programs may be jeopardized or we may not be able to acquire, develop or operate gold projects. We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. The exploration and development of our properties, specifically the construction of mining facilities and commencement of mining operations, require substantial additional financing. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from each of our properties. We will have to raise additional funds from external sources in order to maintain and advance our existing property positions and to acquire new gold projects. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms, and, if additional financing is not available, we may have to substantially reduce or cease our operations. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies. Michael B. Richings and Frederick H. Earnest are each a director of Midas Gold. John Clark is a director of Crown Point Ventures, APIC Petroleum Corporation and Zephyr Minerals Ltd. C. Thomas Ogryzlo is a director of Aura Minerals Inc. and Baja Mining Corp. W. Durand Eppler is director of Augusta Resource Corporation, Golden Minerals Company and Frontier Mining Limited. Tracy Stevenson is the non-executive chairman and a director of Quaterra Resources Inc. and a director of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. In the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict at a meeting of the directors of the company in question and to abstain from voting for or against approval of any matter in which such director may have a conflict. In appropriate cases, the company in question will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which any directors, or management, may have a conflict. In accordance with the laws of the Yukon Territory, the directors of all Yukon Territory companies are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of a company for which they serve as a director. There may be challenges to the title in our mineral properties. There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. If there are title defects with respect to any of our properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert management's time from ongoing exploration and development programs. Our property interests in Mexico and Indonesia are subject to risks from political and economic instability in those countries. We have property interests in Mexico and Indonesia that may be affected by risks associated with political or economic instability in those countries. The risks include, but are not limited to, military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, labor instability or militancy, mineral title irregularities and high rates of inflation. In addition, changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Mexico or Indonesia may adversely affect our business. We may be affected in varying degrees by government regulation with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. 29 Our financial position and results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency values. Because we have mining exploration and evaluation operations in North America and in Australia and Indonesia, we are subject to foreign currency fluctuations, which may materially affect our financial position and results. We do not engage in currency hedging to offset any risk of currency fluctuations. We measure and report our financial results in U.S. dollars. We have mining projects in the United States, Australia, Mexico and Indonesia, and we are looking for other projects elsewhere in the world. Economic conditions and monetary policies in these countries can result in severe currency fluctuations. Currently all our material transactions in Australia, Mexico and Indonesia are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if we were to begin commercial operations in any of these or other countries, it is possible that material transactions incurred in the local currency, such as engagement of local contractors for major projects, will be settled at a U.S. dollar value that is different from the U.S. dollar value of the transaction at the time it was incurred. This could have the effect of undermining profits from operations in that country. We are likely a "passive foreign investment company", which will likely have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. U.S. shareholders of the Common Shares should be aware that we believe Vista was classified as a PFIC during the taxable year ended December 31, 2011, and based on current business plans and financial projections, management believes there is a significant likelihood that Vista will be a PFIC during the current taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder's holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of Common Shares, or any so-called "excess distribution" received on their Common Shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distributions, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effective "qualified electing fund" ("QEF Election") or a "mark-to-market" election with respect to the Common Shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF Election generally must report on a current basis its share of the net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which Vista is PFIC, whether or not we distribute any amounts to our shareholders. However, U.S. shareholders should be aware that there can be no assurance that we will satisfy record keeping requirements that apply to a QEF Election, or that we will supply U.S. shareholders with information that such U.S. shareholders require to report under the QEF Election rules, in event that Vista is a PFIC and a U.S. shareholder wishes to make a QEF Election. Thus, U.S. shareholders may not be able to make a QEF Election with respect to their Common Shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the Common Shares over the taxpayer's basis therein. This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations." Each U.S. shareholder should consult his or her own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. state and local, and foreign tax consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of the Common Shares. It may be difficult to enforce judgments or bring actions outside the United States against us and certain of our directors. We are a Canadian corporation and certain of our directors are neither citizens nor residents of the United States. A substantial part of the assets of several of these persons, and of Vista, are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for an investor: •to enforce in courts outside the United States judgments obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws against these persons and us; or •to bring in courts outside the United States an original action to enforce liabilities based upon United States federal securities laws against these persons and us. 30 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 