ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. We are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. We are subject to the regulation of the PSCW as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the State of Wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. In addition, we are subject to the regulation of the MPSC as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the State of Michigan, except as to issuance of securities, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates. Further, Wisconsin Electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by the FERC, and the FERC also regulates our wholesale power service and accounting practices. Our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. We estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 87% of our electric revenues are regulated by the PSCW, 8% are regulated by the MPSC and the balance of our electric revenues are regulated by the FERC. All of our natural gas revenues are regulated by the PSCW. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to maintain our current authorized rates of return. Factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of the natural gas-fired and coal-fired generating units we are constructing as part of our Power the Future strategy. Under our Power the Future strategy, we expect to meet a significant portion of our future generation needs through the construction of two 545-megawatt natural gas-fired generating units at our Port Washington Generating Station and two 615-megawatt coal-fired generating units to be located adjacent to our Oak Creek Power Plant. The first of these four units was placed into service in July 2005. Large construction projects of this type are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. These risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the inability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials, the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts, strikes, adverse weather conditions, the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner and changes in applicable law or regulations, adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by the permitting agencies, governmental actions and events in the global economy. If final costs for the construction of the Port Washington units exceed the fixed costs allowed in the PSCW order, absent a finding by the PSCW of extraordinary circumstances such as force majeure conditions, this excess will not adjust the amount of the lease payments recovered from Wisconsin Electric. If final costs of the Oak Creek expansion are within 5% of the targeted cost, and the additional costs are deemed prudent by the PSCW, the final lease payments for the Oak Creek expansion recovered from Wisconsin Electric would be adjusted to reflect the actual construction costs. Costs above the 5% cap would not be included in lease payments or recovered from customers absent a finding by the PSCW of extraordinary circumstances such as force majeure conditions. As required by the Energy Policy Act, FERC developed new rules to implement certain provisions of the Energy Policy Act. Pursuant to these new rules, Wisconsin Electric is required to seek FERC authorization to lease from We Power the three Power the Future units that are currently being constructed by We Power. We are unable to determine at this time the magnitude of this new regulatory requirement on the Power the Future plan, if any. We face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. We are subject to extensive environmental regulations relating to, among other things, air emissions such as carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, small particulates and mercury, water discharges and management of hazardous and solid waste. We incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. 23 Existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted which could result in significant additional expenditures and operating restrictions on our facilities. In the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures from our customers in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we may also be responsible for liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. The incurrence of a material environmental liability could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Ownership and operation of nuclear generating units involve inherent risks that may result in substantial costs and liabilities. We own two 518-megawatt nuclear electric generating units at the Point Beach site. The units are operated by NMC, a joint venture of Wisconsin Energy and affiliates of other unaffiliated utilities. During 2005, our nuclear generating units provided 20% of our net electric energy supply. Our nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including: handling of nuclear materials, on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel and the current lack of a long-term solution for disposal of materials; mechanical or structural problems; lapses in maintenance procedures; human errors in the operation of the reactors or safety systems; the threat of possible terrorist attacks; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; the continued ability of NMC to effectively manage and operate our nuclear facilities; and uncertainties regarding our ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning the units. While we have no reason to anticipate a ser ious nuclear incident at our units, if an incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to us that may significantly exceed the amount of our insurance coverage and reserves. The NRC has broad authority to impose licensing and safety related requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, until compliance is achieved. Further, in the event of a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world, the NRC could limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the NRC and the industry have been strengthening security at nuclear power plants. Increased security measures and other safety requirements could require us to make substantial capital expenditures at our nuclear generating units. Energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. Our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. In addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. As a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. Our rates in Wisconsin are set by the PSCW based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. Below normal temperatures during the summer cooling season, and to a lesser extent, above normal temperatures during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. In addition, above normal temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. Higher natural gas costs may negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. Significant increases in the cost of natural gas affect our electric and gas utility operations. Natural gas costs have increased significantly, both because the supply of natural gas in recent years has not kept pace with the demand for natural gas, which has grown throughout the United States as a result of increased reliance on natural gas-fired electric generating facilities, and due to the impacts of hurricanes on offshore Gulf of Mexico natural gas production. We expect that demand for natural gas will remain high into the foreseeable future and that significant price relief will not occur until additional natural gas reserves are developed. Wisconsin Electric's electric operations burn natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in the leased Port Washington Generation Station Unit 1 and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants, and in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. In addition, higher natural gas costs also can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of these fuels as well. 24 In addition, higher natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements. As a result of gas cost recovery mechanisms, our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar pass through of the cost of natural gas. However, increased natural gas costs increase the risk that customers will switch to alternative sources of fuel or reduce their usage, which could reduce future gas margins. We have experienced reduced usage of natural gas by our residential customers in 2005 and expect this to continue during the 2006 winter heating season. In addition, higher natural gas costs combined with slower economic conditions also exposes us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our facilities. We are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. While we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. The suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. In addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to obtain additional megawatt hour purchases through other potentially higher cost generating resources in the MISO Midwest Market. Higher costs to obtain coal increase our working capital requirements. Our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. Operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. Unplanned generation outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. We are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. Our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers we serve. In the event regional economic conditions decline, we may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas which could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. In addition, regional economic conditions also impact our collections of accounts receivable. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. We rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements. We and our subsidiaries have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities, preferred stock and common stock. Successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon the ability of us and our subsidiaries to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates. If our or our subsidiaries' access to the capital markets were limited due to a ratings downgrade, prevailing market conditions or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly adversely affected. We are a holding company and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Wisconsin Energy is a holding company and has no significant operations of its own. Accordingly, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. Our subsidiaries have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. In addition, each of Wisconsin Energy, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas bank back-up credit facilities have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. 25 Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility activities and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. Under the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility activities. Under the public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. In addition, the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a Wisconsin public utility unless the PSCW has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, stockholders and the public. This provision and other requirements of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of Wisconsin Energy. As a result, you may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of your shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. Repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 and enactment of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 may subject us to increased regulation. Wisconsin Energy and Wisconsin Electric were exempt holding companies under PUHCA 1935, and, accordingly, were exempt from that law's provisions other than with respect to certain acquisitions of securities of a public utility. However, the Energy Policy Act repealed PUHCA 1935 and enacted PUHCA 2005, transferring jurisdiction over holding companies from the SEC to the FERC. Each of Wisconsin Energy and Wisconsin Electric will be required to notify the FERC of its status as a holding company and to seek from FERC the exempt status similar to that held under PUHCA 1935. If Wisconsin Energy and Wisconsin Electric are unable to obtain exempt status from FERC, both companies may become subject to increased regulation as holding companies by FERC. Restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. The regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. Increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. The timeline for restructuring and retail access continues to be stretched out, and it is uncertain when retail access will happen in Wisconsin; however, Michigan has adopted retail choice which potentially affects our Michigan operations. Under retail access legislation, customers are permitted to choose their own electric generation supplier. All Michigan electric customers were able to choose their electric generation supplier beginning in January 2002. Although competition and customer switching to alternative suppliers in our service territories in Michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs. The FERC continues to support the existing RTOs which affect the structure of the wholesale market within those RTOs. In connection with its status as a FERC approved RTO, MISO implemented the MISO Midwest Market on April 1, 2005. The MISO Midwest Market rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the MISO region. MISO then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a locational marginal price (LMP) which reflects the market price for energy. As a participant in the new MISO Midwest Market, we are required to follow MISO's instructions when dispatching generating units to support MISO's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. Additionally, the MISO Midwest Market subjects us to additional costs primarily associated with constraints in the transmission system. MISO implemented the LMP system, a market-based platform for valuing transmission congestion. The LMP system includes the ability to mitigate or eliminate congestion charges through the use of financial transmission rights (FTRs). FTRs are allocated to market participants by MISO. We are presently operating under an FTR allocation that will be in effect through May 31, 2006. To date, our unhedged congestion charges have not been material. However, there can be no assurance that we will be granted an adequate level of FTRs in the future to avoid material unhedged congestion charges. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 