ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2012 Form 10-Kour long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, under competitive terms and rates. In addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. If our access to any of these markets were limited, or our cost of capital significantly increased, due to a rating downgrade, an economic downturn or uncertainty, prevailing market conditions, concerns over foreign economic conditions and/or the ability of foreign governments and central banks to respond to changing economic conditions, a negative view of the utility industry, failures of financial institutions or other factors, our ability to implement our business plan could be limited which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.We are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories.Our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. Any economic downturn or disruption of national or international financial markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products. Adverse economic conditions in our service territories and/or decreased demand for products produced in our service area could cause a reduction in demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. We would also expect our collections of accounts receivable to be adversely impacted.Our service territories have been impacted by the slow economy the country has been experiencing over the past several years. As a result, we continue to experience electric and natural gas sales below historical trends.Poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations.Our cost of providing pension and other post-retirement benefit plans is dependent upon a number of factors including actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. Plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. A decline in the market value of these assets as experienced in prior periods may increase our funding requirements. Changes in interest rates affect plan liabilities - as rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could increase our funding requirements. Changes in demographics, such as an increase in the number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase our funding requirements. Changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension costs. We are facing rising medical costs for both active and retired employees. It is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. If we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted.Our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses.Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. A loss for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses not covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 33Wisconsin Energy Corporation 2012 Form 10-KITEM 2.PROPERTIESWe own our principal properties outright, except that the major portion of our electric utility distribution lines, steam utility distribution mains and gas utility distribution mains and services are located, for the most part, on or under streets and highways and on land owned by others and are generally subject to granted easements, consents or permits.As of December 31, 2012, we owned the following generating stations: No. of Dependable Generating CapabilityName Fuel Units In MW (a)Coal-Fired Plants South Oak Creek Coal 4 976Oak Creek Expansion Coal 2 1,057Presque Isle Coal 5 344Pleasant Prairie Coal 2 1,188Valley Coal 2 256Milwaukee County Coal 3 7Total Coal-Fired Plants 18 3,828Hydro Plants (13 in number) 33 40Port Washington Generating Station Gas 2 1,090Germantown Combustion Turbines Gas/Oil 5 258Concord Combustion Turbines Gas/Oil 4 352Paris Combustion Turbines Gas/Oil 4 352Other Combustion Turbines & Diesel Gas/Oil 2 —Byron Wind Turbines Wind 2 —Blue Sky Green Field Wind 88 29Glacier Hills Wind 90 32Montfort Wind Energy Center Wind 20 6Total System 268 5,987(a)Dependable capability is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. We are a summer peaking electric utility. The values are established by tests and may change slightly from year to year.As of December 31, 2012, we operated approximately 21,551 pole-miles of overhead distribution lines and 23,912 miles of underground distribution cable, as well as approximately 350 distribution substations and 289,826 line transformers.As of December 31, 2012, our gas distribution system included approximately 20,533 miles of distribution and transmission mains connected at 185 gate stations to the pipeline transmission systems of ANR Pipeline Company, Guardian Pipeline L.L.C., Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, Northern Natural Pipeline Company, Great Lakes Transmission Company, Viking Gas Transmission and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company. We have liquefied natural gas storage plants which convert and store, in liquefied form, natural gas received during periods of low consumption. The liquefied natural gas storage plants have a send-out capability of 73,600 Dth per day. We also have propane air systems for peaking purposes. These propane air systems will provide approximately 2,960 Dth per day of supply to the system. Our gas distribution system consists almost entirely of plastic and coated steel pipe.We also own office buildings, gas regulating and metering stations and major service centers, including garage and warehouse facilities, in certain communities we serve. Where distribution lines and services and gas distribution mains and services occupy private property, we have in some, but not all instances, obtained consents, permits or easements for these installations from the apparent owners or those in possession of those properties, generally without an examination of ownership records or title. 34Wisconsin Energy Corporation