ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2013 Form 10-Kdecrease, the liabilities increase, which could increase our funding requirements. Changes in demographics, such as an increase in the number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase our funding requirements. Changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension costs. We are facing rising medical costs for both active and retired employees. It is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. If we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted.Our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses.Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.ITEM 2.PROPERTIESWe own our principal properties outright, except that the major portion of our electric utility distribution lines, steam utility distribution mains and gas utility distribution mains and services are located, for the most part, on or under streets and highways and on land owned by others and are generally subject to granted easements, consents or permits. 34Wisconsin Energy Corporation