ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. We are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. We are subject to the regulation of the PSCW as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the State of Wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. In addition, we are subject to the regulation of the MPSC as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the State of Michigan, except as to issuance of securities, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates. Further, our hydroelectric facilities are regulated by FERC, and FERC also regulates our wholesale power service practices and electric reliability requirements. Our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. We are obligated in good faith to comply with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. If it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties and other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 88% of our electric revenues are regulated by the PSCW, 5% are regulated by the MPSC and the balance of our electric revenues is regulated by FERC. All of our natural gas revenues are regulated by the PSCW. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to recover our costs and expenses and to maintain our current authorized rates of return. We believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us cannot be predicted. Changes in regulation, interpretations of regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial compliance costs. Factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of the natural gas-fired and coal-fired generating units we are constructing as part of our PTF strategy. Under our PTF strategy, we expect to meet a significant portion of our future generation needs through the construction of two 545 MW natural gas-fired generating units at PWGS and two 615 MW coal-fired generating units to be located adjacent to our existing Oak Creek Power Plant. PWGS 1 was placed in service in July 2005 and has a current dependable capability of 575 MW. PWGS 2 is expected to go into service in the second quarter of 2008. OC 1 and OC 2 are scheduled to go into service in 2009 and 2010, respectively. Large construction projects of this type are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. These risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the inability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials, the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts, strikes, adverse weather conditions, the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner, legal challenges and appeals to granted permits, including the WPDES permit granted in connection with the Oak Creek expansion, changes in applicable law or regulations, adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by courts or the permitting agencies, other governmental actions and events in the global economy. If final costs for the construction of the PWGS units exceed the fixed costs allowed in the PSCW order, absent a finding by the PSCW of extraordinary circumstances, such as force majeure conditions, this excess will not adjust the amount of the lease payments to be recovered from Wisconsin Electric's ratepayers. If final costs of the Oak Creek expansion are within 5% of the targeted cost, and the additional costs are deemed prudent by the PSCW, the final lease payments for the Oak Creek expansion to be recovered from Wisconsin Electric's ratepayers would be adjusted to reflect the actual construction costs. Costs above the 5% cap would not be included in lease payments or recovered from customers absent a finding by the PSCW of extraordinary circumstances, such as force majeure conditions. 28 We face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. We are subject to extensive environmental regulations affecting our past, present and future operations relating to, among other things, air emissions such as CO2, SO2, NOx, small particulates and mercury; water discharges; management of hazardous and solid waste (including polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)); and removal of degraded lead paint. We incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. Existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. In addition to requiring capital expenditures, the operation of emission control equipment to meet emission limits and further regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. In the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures from our customers in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at our current and former facilities, as well as at third-party owned sites. Due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate. In addition, we may also be responsible for liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us. The incurrence of a material environmental liability could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. Global warming is increasingly a concern for the energy industry. Although there continues to be significant debate regarding the extent of global warming and the impact of human activity, federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly CO2. In addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. We believe it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions. However, we cannot predict what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they will become effective. Several bills have been introduced in the United States Congress that would compel CO2 emission reductions. While none have yet been passed by Congress, the competing bills remain pending. Proposals under consideration include limitations on the amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted (so called "caps") together with systems of trading permitted emissions capacities. This type of system could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase costly allowances for such emissions. Emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. In April 2007, the United States Supreme Court concluded that the EPA already has authority to regulate CO2 emissions under the CAA. As a result, the EPA is now reconsidering whether to regulate motor vehicle emissions of CO2 under the CAA. Any decision to regulate motor vehicle CO2 emissions under the CAA may have significant implications for stationary sources of CO2 emissions including fossil fuel fired electric generating plants. At the state level, on April 5, 2007, the Governor of Wisconsin signed Executive Order 191 creating the Task Force on Global Warming to bring together a group of Wisconsin business, industry, government, energy and environmental leaders to examine the effects of, and solutions to, global warming in Wisconsin. We are actively participating in the Task Force. The purpose of the Task Force is to discuss and analyze possible solutions to global warming challenges that pose a threat to Wisconsin's economic and environmental health. The Task Force is 29 charged with creating a state plan of action to deliver to the Governor to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Wisconsin. The work of the Governor's Task Force is ongoing. In addition, on November 14, 2007, the Governor of Michigan signed Executive Order 2007-42 creating the Michigan Climate Action Council, which is similar in scope and purpose to the Task Force on Global Warming in Wisconsin. The Governors of both Michigan and Wisconsin have signed on to the "Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord" and the associated "platform" document developed through the Midwest Governor's Association. The stated goal of the platform is to "maximize the energy resources and economic advantages and opportunities of Midwestern states while reducing emissions of atmospheric CO2 and other greenhouse gases". Certain elements of this agreement have the potential to impact the cost and nature of our operations in Wisconsin and Michigan. These state and regional initiatives could lead to legislation and regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that could be implemented sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. These regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that is adopted. There is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with any future legislation and/or regulation that requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, or that recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. Future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate and could affect future results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. We continue to monitor the legislative and regulatory developments in this area. Although we expect the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions to have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the possible costs of the impacts. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. We rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements. We have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities, preferred stock and common stock. Recently, certain investment banks announced the adoption of the "Carbon Principles," a set of guidelines designed to help the investment banks assess environmental risk in connection with the financing of new fossil fuel power plants. The Carbon Principles are expected to be employed in conjunction with an "Enhanced Environmental Diligence Process" in evaluating whether to participate in the financing of such projects. Successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates. If our access to the capital markets were limited due to a rating downgrade, prevailing market conditions or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our electric generation and gas transportation facilities, including the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities, including cyber terrorism. A terrorist attack on our facilities (or those of third parties) could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. Any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. Our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. In addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. As a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. 30 Our rates in Wisconsin are set by the PSCW based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. Mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. In addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. Higher natural gas costs may negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. Significant increases in the cost of natural gas affect our electric and gas utility operations. Natural gas costs have increased in recent years because the supply of natural gas has not kept pace with the demand for natural gas, which has grown throughout the United States as a result of increased reliance on natural gas-fired electric generating facilities. We expect that demand for natural gas will remain high into the foreseeable future and that significant price relief will not occur until additional natural gas reserves are developed. Wisconsin Electric burns natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in the leased PWGS 1 and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. In many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. In addition, higher natural gas costs also can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of those fuels as well. Wisconsin Electric bears the regulatory risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs when those costs are higher than the base rate established in its rate structure. For 2008, Wisconsin Electric will be unable to prospectively recover fuel and purchased power costs until the costs exceed a pre-established annual band. In addition, higher natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements. As a result of GCRMs, our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar pass through of the cost of natural gas. However, increased natural gas costs increase the risk that customers will switch to alternative sources of fuel or reduce their usage, which could reduce future gas margins. In addition, higher natural gas costs combined with slower economic conditions also expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. We are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. While we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. The suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. In addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to obtain additional power purchases through other potentially higher cost generating resources in the MISO Energy Markets. Higher costs to obtain coal increase our working capital requirements. Our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. Operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. Unplanned outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. Our cost of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. Changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pensions costs. We expect to contribute approximately $45.4 million to fund the pension plans in 2008. Depending upon the growth rate of the pension investments over time and depending upon the other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we could be required to contribute significant 31 additional amounts in the future to fund our plans. These additional funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. Our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers we serve. In the event regional economic conditions or the demand for products produced in our service area decline, we may experience reduced demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. In addition, regional economic conditions also impact our collections of accounts receivable. Customer growth in our service areas affects our results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by customer growth in our service areas. Customer growth can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, including job and income growth. Customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and gas, and the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. A population decline in our service territories or slower than anticipated customer growth could have a material adverse impact on our cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. We are a holding company and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Wisconsin Energy is a holding company and has no significant operations of its own. Accordingly, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. Our subsidiaries have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. In addition, each of Wisconsin Energy, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas bank back-up credit facilities have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. Under the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. Under the public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. In addition, this act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a Wisconsin public utility unless the PSCW has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. This provision and other requirements of this act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of Wisconsin Energy. As a result, shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. Governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses. Wisconsin Electric, Wisconsin Gas and Edison Sault are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. These permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. In addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. Licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. Also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other 32 associated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.Restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. The regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. Increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. It is uncertain when retail access might be implemented in Wisconsin; however, Michigan has adopted retail choice which potentially affects our Michigan operations. Under retail access legislation, customers are permitted to choose their own electric generation supplier. All Michigan electric customers were able to choose their electric generation supplier beginning in January 2002. Although competition and customer switching to alternative suppliers in our service territories in Michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs. FERC continues to support the existing RTOs that affect the structure of the wholesale market within those RTOs. In connection with its status as a FERC approved RTO, MISO implemented the MISO Energy Markets on April 1, 2005. The MISO Energy Markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the MISO region. MISO then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a LMP that reflects the market price for energy. As a participant in the MISO Energy Markets, we are required to follow MISO's instructions when dispatching generating units to support MISO's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. In addition, MISO plans to implement an Ancillary Services Market for operating reserves that would be simultaneously co-optimized with MISO's existing e nergy markets. The Ancillary Services Market is expected to commence in June 2008. The implementation of these and other new market designs has the potential to increase costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the market and costs associated with estimated payment settlements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 