ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our Common Shares involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company or otherwise associated with an investment in our Common Shares. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, and have attempted to include all material risk factors. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Business of Vista Gold We are likely a "passive foreign investment company" which will likely have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders U.S. shareholders of our Common Shares should be aware that we believe we were classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) during the taxable year ended December 31, 2009, and based on current business plans and financial projections, we believe there is a significant likelihood that we will be a PFIC during the current taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of Common Shares, or any so-called “excess distribution” received on their Common Shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distributions, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effec tive "qualified electing fund" (“QEF Election”) or a "mark-to-market" election with respect to the Common Shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis their share of our net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which we are a PFIC, whether or not we distribute any amounts to our shareholders. However, U.S. shareholders should be aware that there can be no assurance that we will satisfy record keeping requirements that apply to a QEF, or that we will supply U.S. shareholders with information that such U.S. shareholders require to report under the QEF rules, in event that we are a PFIC and a U.S. shareholder wishes to make a QEF Election. Thus, U.S. shareholders may not be able to make a QEF Election with respect to their Common Shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the Common S hares over the taxpayer’s basis therein. This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Each U.S. shareholder should consult his or her own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. state and local, and foreign tax consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of our Common Shares. Feasibility study results and preliminary assessment results are based on estimates that are subject to uncertainty. Feasibility studies are used to determine the economic viability of a deposit, as are pre-feasibility studies and preliminary assessments. Feasibility studies are the most detailed and reflect a higher level of confidence in the reported capital and operating costs. Generally accepted levels of confidence are plus or minus 15% for feasibility studies, plus or minus 25-30% for pre-feasibility studies and plus or minus 35-40% for preliminary assessments. These levels reflect the levels of confidence that exist at the time the study is completed. While these studies are based on the best information available to us for the level of study, we cannot be certain that actual costs will not significantly exceed the estimated cost. While Vista incorporates what it believes is an appropriate conti ngency factor in cost estimates to account for this uncertainty, there can be no assurance that the contingency factor is adequate. - 12 - Table of Contents The economic viability of a deposit is based on many factors that are subject to uncertainty. Many factors are involved in the determination of the economic viability of a deposit, including the achievement of satisfactory mineral reserve estimates, the level of estimated metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating cost estimates and estimates of future gold prices. Resource estimates are based on the assay results of many intervals from many drill holes and the interpolation of those results between holes. There is no certainty that metallurgical recoveries obtained in bench scale or pilot plant scale tests will be achieved in commercial operations. Capital and operating cost estimates are based upon many factors, including anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the orebody, ground and mining conditions, expected recovery rates of the gold from the ore and anticipated environmental and regulatory compliance costs. Each of these factors involves uncertainties and as a result, we cannot give any assurance that our development or exploration projects will become operating mines. Further, it may take many years from the initial phase of drilling before production is possible and, during that time, the economic feasibility of exploiting a discovery may change as the result of changing commodity and supply costs. If a mine is developed, actual operating results may differ from those anticipated in a feasibility study. We require certain governmental authorizations and permits for our business, including our development plans and operating activities. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions to our business if we cannot obtain, renew or maintain the necessary authorizations and permits. A major risk inherent in our business is the requirement to obtain authorizations and permits from governmental authorities. Delays in obtaining authorizations or permits, failure to obtain an authorization or permit or receipt of an authorization or permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop one or more of our gold projects, including, but not limited to, the Paredones Amarillos and Mt. Todd gold projects. The failure to obtain necessary permits could result in an impairment and write down of the carrying value of our projects. We are awaiting receipt of permits needed before construction can begin on the Paredones Amarillos gold project. We may experience delays in the commencement of construction on the Paredones Amarillos gold project due to delays in receiving the required permits. There can be no assurance whether or when construction at the Paredones Amarillos gold project will commence. If we are unable to acquire the required permits to mine the Paredones Amarillos gold project, then we will not have mineral reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 or NI 43-101, which could result in an impairment and write down of the carrying value of the project. There may be delays in commencement of construction on the Paredones Amarillos Gold Project. Delays in commencement of construction could result from delays in receiving the required governmental permits including the CUSF, or other permits related to the construction of the desalination plant, pipeline, power line, or widening of the public access road, or from factors such as availability and performance of engineering and construction contractors, suppliers and consultants, availability of required equipment and receipt of required governmental approvals. Any delay in the performance of any one or more of the contractors, suppliers, consultants or other persons on which we depend, or lack of availability of required equipment, or delay or failure to receive required governmental approvals, could delay or prevent commencement of construction on the Paredones Amarillos gol d project. There can be no assurance whether or when construction at the Paredones Amarillos gold project will commence or that the necessary personnel, equipment or supplies will be available to us if and when construction is commenced. If we are unable to acquire permits to mine the property, then we will have no reserves under U.S. Industry Guide 7 and NI 43-101, which could result in an impairment and write-down of the carrying value of the project. There may be delays in obtaining the CUSF for the Paredones Amarillos Gold Project Our CUSF application was recently dismissed on administrative grounds by the SEMARNAT. Specifically, SEMARNAT dismissed the CUSF application, without a review of its substantive merit, for MPA’s alleged failure to provide certain information and satisfy procedural requirements. We are currently working to clarify SEMARNAT’s specific requirements. We intend to make the appropriate amendments and re-file the application. The CUSF is required before we can commence construction of the Paredones Amarillos gold project. Amending and resubmitting the CUSF for review by SEMARNAT will cause unknown delays in the commencement of the Paredones Amarillos gold project. There are many variables and uncertainties involved th roughout the CUSF application approval process which could further delay the application and therefore further delay commencement of the Paredones Amarillos gold project. - 13 - Table of Contents The final status of the governmental permits for the Paredones Amarillos Gold Project could negatively impact our mineral reserves. We have not received all of the governmental permits for the Paredones Amarillos gold project. After dismissal for administrative reasons of our CUSF application, we have decided to apply for a new CUSF. However, there are many variables and uncertainties involved throughout the CUSF approval process and approval is not guaranteed. If we are unable to secure a CUSF, Mexican law will prohibit us from mining the Paredones Amarillos gold project and, accordingly, we will have no reserves at Paredones Amarillos under SEC Industry Guide 7 and NI 43-101, which could result in an impairment and write-down of the carrying value of the project. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. We anticipate that costs at our projects including the Paredones Amarillos gold project, Mt. Todd gold project and our Awak Mas gold project as well as other properties that we may explore or develop, will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any significant location could have a significant effect on our profitability and could resu lt in an impairment. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and development operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. We cannot be certain that our acquisition, exploration and development activities will be commercially successful. We currently have no properties that produce gold in commercial quantities. Substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties, to establish mineral reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. We cannot be assured that any mineral reserves or mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) acquired or discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. Acquisitions and integration issues may expose us to risks. Our business strategy includes making targeted acquisitions. Any acquisition that we make may be of a significant size, may change the scale of our business and operations, and may expose us to new geographic, political, operating, financial and geological risks. Our success in our acquisition activities depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for any such acquisition and integrate the acquired operations successfully with our operations. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks. For example, there may be significant decreases in commodity prices after we have committed to complete the transaction and have established the purchase price or exchange ratio; a material ore body may prove to be below expectations; we may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realizing anticipated synergies and maximizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise and maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls across the organization; the integration of the acquired business or assets may disrupt our ongoing business and our relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and contractors; and the acquired business or assets may have unknown liabilities which may be significant. If we choose to use equity securities as consideration for such an acquisition, existing shareholders may suffer dilution. Alternatively, we may choose to finance any such acquisition with our existing resources. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acqui sitions. The issuance of additional Common Shares may negatively impact the trading price of our Common Shares. We have issued equity securities in the past and may continue to issue equity securities to finance our activities in the future, including to finance future acquisitions, or as consideration for acquisitions of businesses or assets. In addition, outstanding options and broker warrants to purchase Common Shares may be exercised, resulting in the issuance of additional Common Shares. The issuance by us of additional Common Shares would result in dilution to our shareholders, and even the perception that such an issuance may occur could have a negative impact on the trading price of our Common Shares. - 14 - Table of Contents The price of our Common Shares may fluctuate and may result in losses to investors. The trading price of our Common Shares has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations, which may result in losses to investors. The high and low intraday sale prices of our Common Shares on the Amex were $9.45 and $3.80 in 2007; $5.95 and $0.77 in 2008; and $3.38 and $1.16 in 2009 and on the TSX were CDN$10.68 and CDN$4.07 in 2007; CDN$5.99 and CDN$0.98 in 2008; and CDN$3.63 and CDN$1.40 in 2009. The trading price of our Common Shares may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: · trends in the gold mining industry and the markets in which we operate; · changes in the price of gold; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; · acquisitions and financings; · global and regional political and economic conditions and other factors; · general stock market conditions; · the operating and share performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and · purchase or sales of blocks of our Common Shares. This volatility may adversely impact the price of the Common Shares regardless of our operating performance. We have never declared dividends. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our Common Shares. Currently, we intend to retain our earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of the business and do not expect to pay dividends or to make any other distributions in the future, which may limit the way in which investors may realize any returns on their investment. Joint ventures and other partnerships in relation to our properties may expose us to risks. We may enter into joint ventures or other partnership arrangements with other parties in relation to the exploration, development and production of certain of the properties in which we have an interest. Joint ventures can often require unanimous approval of the parties to the joint venture or their representatives for certain fundamental decisions such as an increase or reduction of registered capital, merger, division, dissolution, amendments of constating documents, and the pledge of joint venture assets, which means that each joint venture party may have a veto right with respect to such decisions which could lead to a deadlock in the operations of the joint venture or partnership. Further, we may be unable to exert control over strategic decisions made in respe ct of such properties. Any failure of such other companies to meet their obligations to us or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties’ respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the joint ventures or their properties and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, cash flows and the price of our Common Shares. - 15 - Table of Contents We have no history of producing metals from our current mineral properties and limited recent experience with producing mines; there can be no assurance that we will successfully establish mining operations or profitably produce precious metals. We have no history of producing metals from our current mineral properties. We do not produce gold and do not currently generate operating earnings. While we seek to move the Paredones Amarillos and Mt. Todd gold projects into production, such efforts will be subject to all of the risks associated with establishing new mining operations and business enterprises including: · the timing and cost, which are considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities; · the ability to find sufficient gold reserves to support a profitable mining operation; · the availability and costs of skilled labor and mining equipment; · compliance with environmental and other governmental approval and permit requirements; · the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities; · potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups, local groups or local inhabitants which may delay or prevent development activities; and · potential increases in construction and operating costs due to changes in the cost of fuel, power, materials and supplies. The costs, timing and complexities of mine construction and development may be increased by the remote location of our properties. It is common in new mining operations to experience unexpected problems and delays during construction, development and mine start-up. In addition, our management will need to be expanded. This could result in delays in the commencement of mineral production and increased costs of production. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our activities will result in profitable mining operations or that we will successfully establish mining operations. Our continuing historical reclamation obligations at the Mt. Todd gold project and our reclamation requirements on other properties could require significant additional expenditures. We could be responsible for the reclamation obligations related to previous disturbances located on all of our properties, including the Mt. Todd gold project. The Mt. Todd site was not reclaimed when the original mine closed and as a result, the dumps and heap leach pad require ongoing care and maintenance. We provide that care and maintenance, but will not be responsible for the environmental liability resulting from previous operations until we make the decision to re-open the mine and have received the appropriate permits. The satisfaction of any bonding requirements and continuing or future reclamation obligations on our properties will require a significant amount of capital. There is a risk that we will be unable to fund these historical and future reclamation requirements, and further, that the regulatory authorities may increase reclamation and bonding requirements to such a degree that it would not be commercially reasonable to continue exploration or development activities on such properties, including at the Mt. Todd gold project. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, cash flows and the price of our Common Shares. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses since inception and may incur net losses in the future. We incurred the following losses from operations during each of the following periods: · approximately $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009; · approximately $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2008; and · approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $193 million and $191 million as at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. - 16 - Table of Contents We expect to continue to incur losses unless and until such time as one of its properties enters into commercial production and generates sufficient revenues to fund continuing operations. We have committed and plan to continue to commit substantial capital and other resources to the ongoing development of the Paredones Amarillos and Mt. Todd gold projects. The amount and timing of future expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the progress of ongoing development and operations, permitting matters, the timing of development, the costs of production, the commercial viability of production and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure investors that we will ever achieve profitability. Historical production of gold at our Mt. Todd gold project may not be indicative of the potential for future development or revenue. The Mt. Todd gold project was an operating mine in the late 1990’s. Based on a review of project files, our management believes that approximately 27.1 million short tons grading 0.031 gold ounces per ton and containing 826,000 ounces of gold were extracted between 1996 and the termination of mining in 2000. Processing was by a combination of heap-leach production from oxide ore and cyanidation of sulfide ore. The remaining mineralization consists of sulfide mineralization lying below and along strike of the existing open pit. Historical production of gold from our Mt. Todd gold project may not be indicative of the potential for future development of the property. Due to the uncertainties associated with exploration and develop ment, including variations in geology and structure, there is no assurance that our development efforts will be successful or that prior operating results are reflective of additional or economically developable deposits. Investors in our securities should not rely on historical operations as an indication that our mining properties will be placed into commercial production again or that such properties will produce revenues or be profitable. We cannot assure you that we will have an adequate supply of water to complete desired exploration or development of our mining properties. We have obtained permits and water rights that we currently use to service the activities on our various properties and we plan to obtain all required permits and water rights to serve other properties we may develop or acquire in the future. However, the amount of water that we are entitled to use pursuant to our water rights must be determined by the appropriate regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such regulatory authorities may amend the regulations regarding such water rights, increase the cost of maintaining such water rights, or eliminate our current water rights and we may be unable to retain all or a portion of such water rights. In addition, water at the Mt. Todd gold project is expected to be provided from a raw water dam and reservoir. Drought or drought-like conditions in the area feeding the reservoir could limit or extinguish this water supply. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will have access to the amount of water needed to expl ore or develop its properties or to operate a mine at its properties, which may prevent us from generating revenue, and which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and the price of our Common Shares. We could be subject to environmental lawsuits. Neighboring landowners and other third parties could file claims based on environmental statutes and common law for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste material into the environment on or around our properties. There can be no assurance that our defense of such claims will be successful. A successful claim against us could have a material adverse affect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operation and the price of our Common Shares. We do not insure against all risks to which we may be subject in our planned operations. We do not maintain insurance to cover all of the potential risks associated with its operations. We may also be unable to obtain insurance to cover other risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available, or may not be adequate to cover all liabilities. We might also become subject to liability for environmental, pollution or other hazards associated with mineral exploration and production which we may not be insured against, which may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause us to incur significant costs that could materially adversely affect our financial condition an d our ability to fund activities on our properties. A significant loss could force us to reduce or terminate our operations on a specific project or altogether. If we fail to hire and retain our key personnel, it may have an adverse effect on our operations. We depend on a number of key personnel, including Michael B. Richings, our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Frederick H. Earnest, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Gregory G. Marlier, our Chief Financial Officer. We rely heavily on these individuals for the conduct of our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key officers and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any or all of such officers. The loss of any one of these personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. We have employment contracts with each of these key personnel. We do not have key man life insurance. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our management systems and to recruit and train new employees. Although we have done so in the past and expect to do so in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retraining skilled and experienced personnel. - 17 - Table of Contents The price of gold is subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect the realizable value of our assets and potential future results of operations and cash flow. Our principal assets are mineral reserves and mineralized material. We intend to attempt to acquire additional properties containing mineral reserves and mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines). The price that we pay to acquire these properties will be, in large part, influenced by the price of gold at the time of the acquisition. Our potential future revenues are expected to be, in large part, derived from the mining and sale of gold from these properties or from the outright sale or joint venture of some of these properties. The value of these mineral reserves and mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines), and the value of any potential gold production there from, will vary in proportion to variations in gold prices. The price of gold has fluctuated widely, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including, but not limited to, international, economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, central bank activities, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns and speculative activities. The effect of these factors on the price of gold, and therefore the economic viability of any of our projects, cannot accurately be predicted. Any drop in the price of gold would adversely affect our asset values, cash flows, potential revenues and profits. Mining exploration, development and operating activities are inherently hazardous. Mineral exploration involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed any liability insurance policy limits. It is also possible that the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or, we could elect not to be insured against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event, we could incur significant costs that could have a material adver se effect on our financial condition. Calculations of mineral reserves and of mineralized material are estimates only, subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore, and recoverability of metal in the mining process. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves and corresponding grades dedicated to future production. Until mineral reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of mineral reserves and ore may vary depending on metal prices. Estimates of mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) are subject to uncertainty as well. The estimating of mineral reserves and mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) is a subjective process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quantity and quality of available data and the assumptions used and judgments made in interpreting engineering and geological information. There is significant uncertainty in any reserve or mineralized material estimate (estimate of mineral resources under Canadian guidelines), and the actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of mining a deposit may differ materially from our estimates. Estimated mineral reserves or mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) may have to be recalculated based on changes in metal prices, further exploration or development activity or actual production experience. This could materially and adversely affect estimates of the volume or grade of mineralization, estimated recovery rates or other important factors that influence estimates of mineral reserves or mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines). Any material change in the quantity of mineral reserves, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory t ests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. Our exploration and development operations are subject to environmental regulations, which could result in our incurring additional costs and operational delays. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is evolving in some countries or jurisdictions in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our projects. We are currently subject to U.S. federal and state government environmental regulations with respect to our properties in Idaho and California in the United States. We are also currently subject to environmental regulations with respect to our pr operties in Mexico, Australia and Indonesia. - 18 - Table of Contents U.S. Federal Laws The U.S. Bureau of Land Management requires that mining operations on lands subject to its regulation obtain an approved plan of operations subject to environmental impact evaluation under the National Environmental Policy Act. Any significant modifications to the plan of operations may require the completion of an environmental assessment or Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS)” prior to approval. Mining companies must post a bond or other surety to guarantee the cost of post-mining reclamation. These requirements could add significant additional cost and delays to any mining project we undertake. Under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, mining companies may incur costs for generating, transporting, treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste, as well as for closure and post-closure maintenance once they have completed mining activities on a property. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, storage facilities, and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Federal Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. Permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”), imposes strict, joint and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. Those liable groups include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities which release hazardous substances into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time the disposal of the hazardous substances occurred. This liability could include the cost of removal or remediation of the release and damages for injury to the surrounding property. We cannot predict the potential for future CERCLA liability with respect to our U.S. properties. Idaho Laws Permitting a mining operation, such as Yellow Pine, located on patented mining claims within a National Forest in Idaho would require obtaining various Federal, State and local permits under the coordination of the Idaho joint review process. Mining projects require the establishment and presentation of environmental baseline conditions for air, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural, historical, geological, geotechnical, geochemical, soil and socioeconomic parameters. An EIS would be required for any mining activities proposed on public lands. Permits would also be required for storm-water discharge; wetland disturbance (dredge and fill); surface mining; cyanide use, transport and storage; air quality; dam safety (for water storage and/or tailing storage); septic and sewage; water r ights appropriation; and possibly others. In addition, compliance must be demonstrated with the Endangered Species Act and the National Historical Preservation Act consultation process. Possible county zoning and building permits and authorization may be required. Baseline environmental conditions are the basis by which direct and indirect project-related impacts are evaluated and by which potential mitigation measures are proposed. If our project is found to significantly adversely impact any of these baseline conditions, we could incur significant costs to correct the adverse impact, or might have to delay the start of production. California Laws A new mining operation in California, such as the Long Valley gold project, which is on federal unpatented mining claims within a National Forest, requires various federal, state and local permits. Mining projects require the establishment and presentation of environmental baseline conditions for air, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural, historical, geological, geotechnical, geochemical, soil, and socioeconomic parameters. An EIS would be required for any mining activities proposed on public lands. Also required would be a Plan of Operations/Reclamation Plan, and permits for waste-water discharge and wetland disturbance (dredge and fill); a county mining plan and reclamation plan; a county mining operations permit; special use permits from the U.S. Forest Service; and possibly others. In addition, compliance must be demonstrated with the Endangered Species Act and the National Historical Preservation Act consultation process. Possible county zoning and building permits and authorization may be required. Baseline environmental conditions are the basis by which direct and indirect project-related impacts are evaluated and by which potential mitigation measures are proposed. If our project is found to significantly adversely impact any of these baseline conditions, we could incur significant costs to correct the adverse impact, or delay the start of production. In addition, on December 12, 2002, California adopted a “backfilling law” requiring open-pit surface mining operations for metallic minerals to back-fill the mines. While we have determined that the geometry of our Long Valley gold project would lend itself to compliance with this law, future adverse changes to this law could have a corresponding adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations, for example, by requiring changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. - 19 - Table of Contents Mexico Laws We are required under Mexican laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before the Paredones Amarillos or Guadalupe de los Reyes gold projects can be developed and mined. Since the passage of Mexico’s 1988 General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection, a sophisticated system for environmental regulation has evolved. In addition, the North American Free Trade Agreement requirements for regulatory standards in Mexico equivalent to those of the United States and Canada have obligated the Mexican government to continue further development of environmental regulation. Most regulatory programs are implemented by various divisions of the SEMARNAT. While we believe that we have or will be able to obtain on a timely basis the necessary permit s to place the Paredones Amarillos gold project into production, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire updates to necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis. See discussions of Paredones Amarillos permit status under the section heading “Item 6. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Subsequent Events” below. Likewise, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire the necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis to place the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold project into production. Delays in acquiring any permit, authorization or updates could increase the development cost of the Paredones Amarillos gold project or the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold project, or delay the start of production. The most significant environmental permitting requirements, as they relate to the Paredones Amarillos and the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold projects are developing reports on environmental impacts; regula tion and permitting of discharges to air, water and land; new source performance standards for specific air and water pollutant emitting sources; solid and hazardous waste management regulations; developing risk assessment reports; developing evacuation plans; and monitoring inventories of hazardous materials. If the Paredones Amarillos or the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold projects are found to not be in compliance with any of these requirements, we could incur significant compliance costs, or might have to delay the start of production. Australia Laws Mineral projects in the Northern Territory are subject to Australian federal and Northern Territory laws and regulations regarding environmental matters and the discharge of hazardous wastes and materials. As with all mining projects, the Mt. Todd gold project would be expected to have a variety of environmental impacts should development proceed. We are required under Australian laws and regulations (federal, state and territorial) to acquire permits and other authorizations before the Mt. Todd gold project can be developed and mined. In Australia, environmental legislation plays a significant role in the mining industry. Various environmental documents such as the EIS over the Mt. Todd gold project, covering studies on, i nter alia, air, water, pollution, hazardous and toxic wastes, reclamation of mining area, etc. must be prepared and submitted to the Mining and Petroleum Authorizations and Evaluation Division of the Department of Primary Industries, Fisheries and Mines of the Northern Territory government for approval. The preparations of the EIS and related documents and other relevant environmental licenses would involve incurrence of time and costs and there is no assurance that those approvals/licenses can be obtained in a timely manner. The Northern Territory government also has administrative discretion not to approve the EIS documents or grant the required environmental licenses (including any renewal or extensions of such documents). We have entered into an agreement with the Northern Territory relating to environmental and rehabilitation issues. We must also comply with Aboriginal heritage legislation requirements which require heritage survey work to be undertaken prior to the commencement of mining operations. All these conditions may result in the occurrence of significant production costs and delay the production activity of the Mt. Todd gold project. These conditions could frustrate investors seeking certainty in their investments, and as a result we may incur costs and time to manage any issues which may arise and that could possibly affect the overall mining activity of the Mt. Todd gold project. Indonesia Laws We are required under Indonesian laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before our Indonesian mining project, the Awak Mas gold project, can be developed and mined. In Indonesia, environmental legislation plays a significant role in the mining industry. Various environmental documents such as the analysis of environmental impact (“AMDAL”) concerning the Awak Mas gold project, covering studies on, inter alia, air, water, land, pollution, hazardous and toxic wastes and reclamation of mining area, must be prepared and submitted to the Ministry of Environment for approval. In addition, we are also required to submit periodical environmental reports to the relevant environmental government agen cies pursuant to the AMDAL and other required environmental licenses (e.g. license for tailing waste). The preparation of AMDAL documents and other relevant environmental license documents involves incurrence of time and costs and there is no assurance that those approvals/licenses can be obtained in a timely manner. The Indonesian government also has administrative discretion not to approve AMDAL documents or grant the required environmental licenses (including any renewal or extensions of such documents). All these conditions may delay the production activity of the Awak Mas gold project. - 20 - Table of Contents Failure to meet all of the requirements with respect to the above environmental documents, licensing and report submissions could cause us to be subject to administrative and criminal sanctions as well as fines. In extreme cases, the administrative sanctions can also be imposed in the form of revocation of our business license and the contract of work that we have with the Indonesian government. As well, from time to time the implementation of the regional autonomy law in Indonesia can cause uncertainty as to the existence and applicability of national and regional regulations (including in the environmental sector). Often regional regulations are in conflict with higher regulations that apply nationally. As a result we may incur cost and time to manage any issues which may arise and that could possibly affect the overall mining activity of the Awak Mas gold project. Disposal of Amayapampa Gold Project Our receipt of future payments in connection with our disposal of the Amayapampa gold project is subject to uncertainty. In April 2008, we announced the disposal of our wholly-owned subsidiary Vista Gold (Antigua) Corp. (“Vista Gold Antigua”) to Republic Gold Limited (“Republic”). Vista Gold Antigua indirectly held our interest in the Amayapampa gold project in Bolivia. See section heading “Item 7. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3—Dispositions” below. Under the terms of the transaction, Republic has agreed to pay us $3.0 million in three payments of $1.0 million. The first of these payments is due and payable upon the start of commercial production (as defined in the purchase and sale agreement, see “Exhibit 10.39”) at Amayapampa followed by $1.0 million payments on each of the first and second anniversaries of the start of commercial production. In addition, Republic has agreed to pay us a net smelter return royalty on the gold produced by or on behalf of Republic from the Amayapampa gold project in varying percentages depending on the price of gold per ounce. The Amayapampa gold project is not currently in production and we cannot assure that it will ever become a producing mine or, if production is commenced at the mine, the timing and amounts for any such production. Further, having disposed of the Amayapampa gold project, we will have no control over the development of this project. Depending on whether and when production commences at Amayapampa and levels of production achieved, receipt by us of the future payments contemplated by the purchase and sale agreement for the Amayapampa gold project is subject to uncertainty. Finally a number of legal proceedings have been initiated in Bolivia with respect to the ownership interests in the mining concessions comprising the Amayapam pa gold project. Although we are not a party to these proceedings, if these challenges are successful, then we may lose its royalty and payment stream described above. Leverage as a result of our outstanding convertible notes may harm our financial condition and results of operations. On March 7, 2008, we announced the closing of a private placement in which we issued $30 million in aggregate principal amount of the Notes. The Notes are convertible into our Common Shares at the option of the holder at a conversion price of $6.00 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including if our Common Shares are trading on the NYSE Amex at less than $5.00 on March 4, 2009, or we issue Common Shares, or securities convertible into Common Shares, at a price of less than $6.00 during the term of the Notes, subject to a minimum conversion price of $4.80. Pursuant to the terms of the Notes, on March 4, 2009, the conversion price of the Notes was automatically adjusted from $6.00 per share to $4.80 per share. As a result of the adjustment, 6.25 million Common Shares were issuable upon conversion of the Notes. Prior to the adjustment 5 million Common Shares were issuable upon conversion of the Notes. On July 14, 2009, we entered into the “Whitebox Repurchase Agreements with the Whitebox Combined Partners, the Whitebox Convertible Arbitrage and the Whitebox Special Opportunities whereby we agreed to repurchase their respective Notes. Pursuant to the Whitebox Repurchase Agreements, we agreed to repurchase Notes (i) in the principal amount of $504,000 from Whitebox Combined Partners for an aggregate purchase price, including interest, of $331,800; (ii) in the principal amount of $510,000 from Whitebox Convertible Arbitrage for an aggregate purchase price, including interest, of $335,750; and (iii) in the principal amount of $319,000 from Whitebox Special Opportunities for an aggregate purchase price, including interest, of $210,008, based on a settle ment date of July 14, 2009. As a result, as of the date of this annual report, 5.972 million Common Shares are issuable upon conversion of the outstanding Notes. - 21 - Table of Contents Upon conversion of the Notes, existing shareholders will suffer immediate dilution in their capital interest in Vista Gold. Further, the market price of our Common Shares could decline as a result of the conversion of the Notes and the sale into the market of the Common Shares underlying the Notes. These factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of Common Shares. The Notes bear interest at a rate of 10% per annum (calculated and payable semi-annually in arrears) and will mature on March 4, 2011. Our obligations under the Notes are guaranteed by our Mexican subsidiary, Minera Paredones Amarillos S.A. de C.V., and the guarantee is secured by the personal property and real property associated with the Paredones Amarillos gold project. Our level and the terms of our indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation that it: · will require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations, if any, to the payment of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities; · could increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and · depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future ability to generate funds, including through operating cash flows, which will be subject to the potential development of certain of our properties into producing mines, metal prices, prevailing economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we cannot raise sufficient funds or our cash flows were to prove inadequate to meet our debt service and other obligations in the future, we may be required, among other things: · to obtain additional financing in the debt or equity markets; · to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or · to sell selected assets. We cannot assure you that such measures will be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operation, and additional financings, borrowings or refinancings, or proceeds of asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet our obligations, including payments on the Notes. See the section heading “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Recent market events and conditions” and “—General economic conditions” below. We face intense competition in the mining industry. The mining industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable. We also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. If we are unable to successfully compete for qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended. We compete with other gold companies for capital. If we are unable to raise sufficie nt capital, our exploration and development programs may be jeopardized or we may not be able to acquire, develop or operate gold projects. - 22 - Table of Contents We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms. The exploration and development of our properties, specifically the construction of mining facilities and commencement of mining operations, require substantial additional financing. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from each of our properties. We will have to raise additional funds from external sources in order to maintain and advance our existing property positions and to acquire new gold projects. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms and, if additional financing is not available, we may have to substantially reduce or cease our operations. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies. C. Thomas Ogryzlo is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Polaris Energy Corp. and is a director of Birim Goldfields Inc. and Baja Mining Corp. W. Durand Eppler is director of Augusta Resource Corporation, and a director of Golden Minerals Company. Tracy Stevenson is the non-executive chairman and a director of Quaterra Resources Inc. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. In the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict at a meeting of the directors of the company in question and to abstain from voting for or against approval of any matter in which such director may have a conflict. In appropriate cases, the company in question will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which any directors, or management, may have a conflict. In accordance with the laws of the Yukon Territory, the directors of all Yukon Territory companies are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of a company for which they serve as a director. There may be challenges to our title in our mineral properties. There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. If there are title defects with respect to any of our properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert management’s time from ongoing exploration and development programs. Our property interests in Mexico and Indonesia are subject to risks from political and economic instability in those countries. We have property interests in Mexico and Indonesia which may be affected by risks associated with political or economic instability in those countries. The risks include, but are not limited to: military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, labor instability or militancy, mineral title irregularities and high rates of inflation. In addition, changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Mexico or Indonesia may adversely affect our business. We may be affected in varying degrees by government regulation with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safet y. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Our financial position and results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency values. Because we have mining exploration and evaluation operations in North and South America and in Australia and Indonesia, we are subject to foreign currency fluctuations, which may materially affect our financial position and results. We do not engage in currency hedging to offset any risk of currency fluctuations. We measure and report our financial results in U.S. dollars. We have mining projects in Mexico, Australia and Indonesia, and we are looking for other projects elsewhere in the world. Economic conditions and monetary policies in these countries can result in severe currency fluctuations. Currently all our material transactions in Mexico, Australia and Indonesia are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if we were to begin commercial operations in any of these or other countries, it is possible that material transactions incurred in the local currency, such as engagement of local contractors for major projects, will be settled at a U.S. dollar value that is different from the U.S. dollar value of the transaction at the time it was incurred. This could have the effect of undermining profits from operations in that country. - 23 - Table of Contents Future sales of our Common Shares in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our Common Shares and our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our Common Shares or securities exchangeable, convertible or exercisable for Common Shares in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our Common Shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. In March 2008, we announced the closing of a private placement in which we issued $30 million in aggregate principal amount of the Notes. (See section heading “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Leverage as a result of our outstanding convertible notes may harm our financial condition and results of operations” above.) In July 14, 2009, we repurchased $1,333,000 in aggregate principal amo unt of the Notes from certain noteholders. The Notes are convertible into Common Shares at the option of the holder at a conversion price of $6.00 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including if our Common Shares are trading on the NYSE Amex at less than $5.00 on March 4, 2009, or we issue Common Shares, or securities into Common Shares, at a price of less than $6.00 during the term of the Notes, subject to a minimum conversion price of $4.80. Pursuant to the terms of the Notes, on March 4, 2009, the conversion price of the Notes was automatically adjusted from $6.00 per share to $4.80 per share. As a result of the adjustment, as of the date of this annual report, 5.972 million Common Shares are issuable upon conversion of the Notes. Shareholders would suffer dilution upon the conversion of the Notes into our Common Shares. For example, if all $28.667 million of outstanding Notes were converted at the minimum conversion price of $4.80, this would result in th e issuance of an additional 5,972,292 Common Shares, or 13.4% of our issued and outstanding Common Shares on March 16, 2010, upon conversion of the Notes. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of Common Shares or securities exchangeable, convertible or exercisable for Common Shares or the availability of Common Shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our Common Shares. It may be difficult to enforce judgments or bring actions outside the United States against us and certain of our directors and officers. We are a Canadian corporation and certain of our directors and officers are neither citizens nor residents of the United States. A substantial part of the assets of several of these persons, and of us, are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for an investor: · to enforce in courts outside the United States judgments obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws against these persons and us; or · to bring in courts outside the United States an original action to enforce liabilities based upon United States federal securities laws against these persons and us. Recent market events and conditions In 2007, 2008 and 2009, the U.S. credit markets began to experience serious disruption due to a deterioration in residential property values, defaults and delinquencies in the residential mortgage market (particularly, sub-prime and non-prime mortgages) and a decline in the credit quality of mortgage backed securities. These problems led to a slow-down in residential housing market transactions, declining housing prices, delinquencies in non-mortgage consumer credit and a general decline in consumer confidence. These conditions continued and worsened in 2008 and 2009, causing a loss of confidence in the broader U.S. and global credit and financial markets and resulting in the collapse of, and government intervention in, major banks, financial institutions and insurers and creating a climate of greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Notwithstanding various actions by the U.S. and foreign governments, concerns about the general condition of the capital markets, financial instruments, banks, investment banks, insurers and other financial institutions caused the broader credit markets to further deteriorate and stock markets to decline substantially. In addition, general economic indicators have deteriorated, including declining consumer sentiment, increased unemployment and declining economic growth and uncertainty about corporate earnings. These unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase its cost of obtaining, capital and financing for its operations. Our access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. - 24 - Table of Contents General economic conditions The recent unprecedented events in global financial markets have had a profound impact on the global economy. Many industries, including the gold mining industry, are impacted by these market conditions. Some of the key impacts of the current financial market turmoil include contraction in credit markets resulting in a widening of credit risk, devaluations and high volatility in global equity, commodity, foreign exchange and precious metal markets, and a lack of market liquidity. A continued or worsened slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to, consumer spending, employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates , and tax rates may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Specifically: · The global credit/liquidity crisis could impact the cost and availability of financing and our overall liquidity; · the volatility of gold prices may impact our revenues, profits and cash flow; · volatile energy prices, commodity and consumables prices and currency exchange rates impact potential production costs; and · the devaluation and volatility of global stock markets impacts the valuation of our equity securities These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 