ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our Common Shares involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company or otherwise associated with an investment in our Common Shares. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, and have included all material risk factors. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to the Arrangement The market price of our common shares could decrease if we are unable to complete the Arrangement, or if we have to delay completion of the Arrangement. Pursuant to the Arrangement Agreement, we intend to transfer our Nevada-based mining properties and related assets into Allied Nevada concurrently with the Pescios' transfer to Allied Nevada of their interests in certain Nevada-based mining properties and related assets. Completion of the Arrangement is subject to a number of conditions including receipt of all required court, securityholder, regulatory and third party approvals and certain other customary conditions. If the transaction does not receive all of the required approvals, or if any of the other conditions to completion are not satisfied or waived, we will be unable to complete the Arrangement, which could negatively impact the market price of our common shares. If we experience delays in receiving any of the required approvals for the Arrangement, or do not have certain conditions satisfied or waived so that we may timely complete the Arrangement, any resulting delay in completing the Arrangement could also negatively impact the market price of our common shares. We may be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax and Canadian income taxes in connection with our distribution of Allied Nevada Shares. The distribution of Allied Nevada Shares will be taxable to us for Canadian income tax purposes and U.S. federal income tax purposes under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The amount of our tax liability will depend on the amount of gain deemed realized on the distribution, which would be the difference between the fair market value of the Allied Nevada Shares distributed and our adjusted basis of those Allied Nevada Shares and other factors including, but not limited to, the other deductions or credits available to us such as loss carry forwards or foreign tax credits. We intend to retain an amount of Allied Nevada Shares which our management considers sufficient to fund an adequate reserve to pay these taxes. However, U.S. securities law restrictions would likely preclude us from selling these Allied Nevada Shares in a timely manner to fund the tax liability because the Allied Nevada Shares retained by us will be "restricted securities" as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 and cannot be resold by us in the absence of registration under the Securities Act unless an exemption from registration is available. Accordingly, we may instead have to pay the tax out of our currently available cash. While it might be possible to effect a private resale of restricted securities, this would likely involve a significant discount to market price. If we choose to register the Allied Nevada Shares for resale or choose to rely on an exemption to resell the Allied Nevada Shares into the market, 12 either of these choices would require us to wait at least several months to a year before we could resell the Allied Nevada Shares. This is because registration of the Allied Nevada Shares under the Securities Act would take at least several months to complete; alternatively, the most commonly available exemption for resales, Rule 144 under the Securities Act, would require us to hold the Allied Nevada Shares for one year before commencing the resales. Further, any such sale is likely to result in gain or loss for U.S. and Canadian income tax purposes, which may result in tax liability. Risks Related to the Business of Vista Gold Vista Gold is a "passive foreign investment company" for U.S. tax purposes, which can have a materially adverse effect on a U.S. shareholder's economic return on investment in our common shares. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, Vista Gold was classified as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") under section 1297 of the Code for our taxable year ended December 31, 2006, and likely will be a PFIC in subsequent taxable years until it has significant operating income. Classification of a corporation as a PFIC is a tax attribute which may have a material adverse effect on a U.S. shareholder's economic return. Whether, and to what extent, there will be a material adverse effect depends to a very large extent on whether a U.S. shareholder makes certain elections in timely fashion. These elections are discussed herein under "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities —Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations". Each U.S. investor in our common shares is urged to review that discussion and consult an independent U.S. tax adviser, because the PFIC rules are complex, in connection with an investment in our common shares. We cannot be certain that our acquisition, exploration and development activities will be commercially successful. We currently have no properties that produce gold in commercial quantities. Our gold production has declined steadily since mining activities were suspended at the Hycroft mine in 1998, and gold production is incidental to solution recirculation on the heaps. Substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties, to establish ore reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. We cannot assure you that any gold reserves or mineralized material acquired or discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. The price of gold is subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect the realizable value of our assets and potential future results of operations and cash flow. Our principal assets are gold reserves and mineralized material. We intend to attempt to acquire additional properties containing gold reserves and mineralized material. The price that we pay to acquire these properties will be, in large part, influenced by the price of gold at the time of the acquisition. Our potential future revenues are expected to be, in large part, derived from the mining and sale of gold from these properties or from the outright sale or joint venture of some of these properties. The value of these gold reserves and mineralized material, and the value of any potential gold production therefrom, will vary in proportion to variations in gold prices. The price of gold has fluctuated widely, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including, but not limited to, international, economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, central bank activities, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns and speculative activities. The effect of these factors on the price of gold, and therefore the economic viability of any of our projects, cannot accurately be predicted. Any drop in the price of gold would adversely affect our asset values, cash flows, potential revenues and profits. 13 Mining exploration, development and operating activities are inherently hazardous. Mineral exploration involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed any liability insurance policy limits. It is also possible that the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or, we could elect not to be insured against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event, we could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Reserve calculations are estimates only, subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore, and recoverability of metal in the mining process. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves and corresponding grades dedicated to future production. Until reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of reserves and ore may vary depending on metal prices. Any material change in the quantity of reserves, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. Our exploration and development operations are subject to environmental regulations, which could result in our incurring additional costs and operational delays. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is evolving in some countries or jurisdictions in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our projects. We are currently subject to environmental regulations with respect to our properties in Nevada, California and Idaho in the United States, as well as Bolivia, Mexico, Indonesia and Australia. The Hycroft mine in Nevada occupies private and public lands. The public lands include unpatented mining claims on lands administered by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, Nevada State Office. These claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the State of Nevada. U.S. Federal Laws The U.S. Bureau of Land Management requires that mining operations on lands subject to its regulation obtain an approved plan of operations subject to environmental impact evaluation under the National Environmental Policy Act. Any significant modifications to the plan of operations may require the completion of an environmental assessment or Environmental Impact Statement prior to approval. Mining companies must post a bond or other surety to guarantee the cost of post-mining reclamation. These requirements could add significant additional cost and delays to any mining project we undertake. Under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, mining companies may incur costs for generating, transporting, treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste, as well as for closure and post-closure maintenance once they have completed mining activities on a property. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, storage facilities, and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Federal Clean 14 Air Act and state air quality laws. Permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA"), imposes strict, joint and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. Those liable groups include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities which release hazardous substances into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time the disposal of the hazardous substances occurred. This liability could include the cost of removal or remediation of the release and damages for injury to the surrounding property. We cannot predict the potential for future CERCLA liability with respect to our Nevada property or surrounding areas. Nevada Laws At the state level, mining operations in Nevada are also regulated by the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Protection. Nevada state law requires the Hycroft mine to hold Nevada Water Pollution Control Permits, which dictate operating controls and closure and post-closure requirements directed at protecting surface and ground water. In addition, we are required to hold Nevada Reclamation Permits required under NRS 519A.010 through 519A.170. These permits mandate concurrent and post-mining reclamation of mines and require the posting of reclamation bonds sufficient to guarantee the cost of mine reclamation. Other Nevada regulations govern operating and design standards for the construction and operation of any source of air contamination, and landfill operations. Any changes to these laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations by, for example, required changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. California Laws A new mining operation in California, such as the Long Valley project, which is on federal unpatented mining claims within a National Forest, would require obtaining various federal, state and local permits. Mining projects require the establishment and presentation of environmental baseline conditions for air, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural, historical, geological, geotechnical, geochemical, soil, and socioeconomic parameters. An environmental impact statement ("EIS") would be required for any mining activities proposed on public lands. A Plan of Operations/Reclamation Plan would be required. Also required would be permits for waste-water discharge and wetland disturbance (dredge and fill); a county mining plan and reclamation plan; a county mining operations permit; special use permits from the U.S. Forest Service; and possibly others. In addition, compliance must be demonstrated with the Endangered Species Act and the National Historical Preservation Act consultation process. Possible county zoning and building permits and authorization may be required. Baseline environmental conditions are the basis by which direct and indirect project-related impacts are evaluated and by which potential mitigation measures are proposed. If our project is found to significantly adversely impact any of these baseline conditions, we could incur significant costs to correct the adverse impact, or delay the start of production. In addition, on December 12, 2002, California adopted a "backfilling law" requiring open-pit surface mining operations for metallic minerals to back-fill the mines. While we have determined that the geometry of our Long Valley project would lend itself to compliance with this law, future adverse changes to this law could have a corresponding adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations, for example, by requiring changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. Idaho Laws Permitting a mining operation, such as Yellow Pine, located on patented mining claims within a National Forest in Idaho would require obtaining various Federal, State and local permits under the coordination of 15 the Idaho joint review process. Mining projects require the establishment and presentation of environmental baseline conditions for air, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural, historical, geological, geotechnical, geochemical, soil and socioeconomic parameters. An EIS would be required for any mining activities proposed on public lands. Permits would also be required for storm-water discharge; wetland disturbance (dredge and fill); surface mining; cyanide use, transport and storage; air quality; dam safety (for water storage and/or tailing storage); septic and sewage; water rights appropriation; and possibly others. In addition, compliance must be demonstrated with the Endangered Species Act and the National Historical Preservation Act consultation process. Possible county zoning and building permits and authorization may be required. Baseline environmental conditions are the basis by which direct and indirect project-related impacts are evaluated and by which potential mitigation measures are proposed. If our project is found to significantly adversely impact any of these baseline conditions, we could incur significant costs to correct the adverse impact, or might have to delay the start of production. Bolivia Laws We are required under Bolivian laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before we can develop and mine the Amayapampa project. In Bolivia there is relatively new comprehensive environmental legislation, and the permitting and authorization process may be less established and less predictable than in the United States. While we have all the necessary permits to place the Amayapampa project into production, when a production decision is reached, these permits will need to be re-affirmed and there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire updates to necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis. Delays in acquiring any permit or authorization update could increase the development cost of the Amayapampa project, or delay the start of production. Under Bolivian regulations, the primary component of environmental compliance and permitting is the completion and approval of an environmental impact study known as estudio de evaluacion de impacto ambiental ("EEIA"), which we submitted in 1997 and was subsequently approved. The EEIA provides a description of the existing environment, both natural and socio-economic, at the project site and in the region; interprets and analyzes the nature and magnitude of potential environmental impacts that might result from project activities; and describes and evaluates the effectiveness of the operational measures planned to mitigate the environmental impacts. Baseline environmental conditions, including meteorology and air quality, hydrological resources and surface water, are the basis by which direct and indirect project-related impacts are evaluated and by which potential mitigation measures are proposed. If our project is found to significantly adversely impact any of these baseline conditions, we could incur significant costs to correct the adverse impact, or might have to delay the start of production. Mexico Laws We are required under Mexican laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before the Paredones Amarillos or Guadalupe de los Reyes projects can be developed and mined. Since the passage of Mexico's 1988 General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection, a sophisticated system for environmental regulation has evolved. In addition, North American Free Trade Agreement requirements for regulatory standards in Mexico equivalent to those of the United States and Canada have obligated the Mexican government to continue further development of environmental regulation. Most regulatory programs are implemented by various divisions of the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources of Mexico ("SEMARNAT"). While we have the necessary permits to place the Paredones Amarillos project into production, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire updates to necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis. Likewise, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire the necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis to place the Guadalupe de los Reyes project into production. Delays in acquiring any permit, authorization or updates could increase the development cost of the Paredones Amarillos project or the Guadalupe de los Reyes project, or delay the start of production. 16 The most significant environmental permitting requirements, as they relate to the Paredones Amarillos and the Guadalupe de los Reyes projects are developing reports on environmental impacts; regulation and permitting of discharges to air, water and land; new source performance standards for specific air and water pollutant emitting sources; solid and hazardous waste management regulations; developing risk assessment reports; developing evacuation plans; and monitoring inventories of hazardous materials. If the Paredones Amarillos or the Guadalupe de los Reyes projects are found to not be in compliance with any of these requirements, we could incur significant compliance costs, or might have to delay the start of production. Indonesia Laws We are required under Indonesian laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before our current Indonesian mining project, the Awak Mas project, can be developed and mined. In Indonesia, environmental legislation plays a significant role in the mining industry. Various environmental documents such as the analysis of environmental impact ("AMDAL") concerning the Awak Mas project, covering studies on, inter alia, air, water, sand, pollution, hazardous and toxic wastes and reclamation of mining area, must be prepared and submitted to the Ministry of Environment for approval. In addition, we are also required to submit periodical environmental reports to the relevant environmental government agencies pursuant to the AMDAL and other required environmental licenses (e.g. license for tailing waste). The preparation of AMDAL documents and other relevant environmental license documents involves incurrence of time and costs and there is no assurance that those approvals/licenses can be obtained in a timely manner. The Indonesian government also has administrative discretion not to approve AMDAL documents or grant the required environmental licenses (including any renewal or extensions of such documents). All these conditions may delay the production activity of the Awak Mas project. Failure to meet all of the requirements with respect to the above environmental documents, licensing and report submissions could cause us to be subject to administrative and criminal sanctions as well as fines. In extreme cases, the administrative sanctions can also be imposed in the form of revocation of our business license and the contract of work that we have with the Indonesian government. As well, from time to time the implementation of the regional autonomy law in Indonesia can cause uncertainty as to the existence and applicability of national and regional regulations (including in the environmental sector). Often regional regulations are in conflict with higher regulations that apply nationally. As a result we may incur cost and time to manage any issues which may arise and that could possibly affect the overall mining activity of the Awak Mas project. Australia Laws Mineral projects in the Northern Territory are subject to Northern Territory laws and regulations regarding environmental matters and the discharge of hazardous wastes and materials. As with all mining projects, the Mt. Todd gold mine would be expected to have a variety of environmental impacts should development proceed. We are required under Australian laws and regulations to acquire permits and other authorizations before the Mt. Todd gold mine can be developed and mined. In Australia, environmental legislation plays a significant role in the mining industry. Various environmental documents such as the EIS over the Mt. Todd gold mine, covering studies on, inter alia, air, water, pollution, hazardous and toxic wastes, reclamation of mining area, etc. must be prepared and submitted to the Mining and Petroleum Authorizations and Evaluation Division of the Department of Primary Industries, Fisheries and Mines of the Northern Territory government for approval. The preparations of the EIS and related documents and other relevant environmental licenses would involve incurrence of time and costs and there is no assurance that those approvals/licenses can be obtained in a timely manner. The Northern Territory government also has administrative discretion not to 17 approve the EIS documents or grant the required environmental licenses (including any renewal or extensions of such documents). We have entered into an agreement with the Northern Territory relating to environmental and rehabilitation issues. We must also comply with Aboriginal heritage legislation requirements which require heritage survey work to be undertaken prior to the commencement of mining operations. All these conditions may delay the production activity of the Mt. Todd gold mine. These conditions could frustrate investors seeking certainty in their investments, and as a result we may incur costs and time to manage any issues which may arise and that could possibly affect the overall mining activity of the Mt. Todd gold mine. We face intense competition in the mining industry. The mining industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable. We also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. If we are unable to successfully compete for qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended. We compete with other gold companies for capital. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, our exploration and development programs may be jeopardized or we may not be able to acquire, develop or operate gold projects. We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms. The exploration and development of our development properties, specifically the construction of mining facilities and commencement of mining operations, may require substantial additional financing. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from each of our non-producing properties. We will have to raise additional funds from external sources in order to maintain and advance our existing property positions and to acquire new gold projects. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms and, if additional financing is not available, we may have to substantially reduce or cease our operations. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies. Robert A. Quartermain is President and Chief Executive Officer of Silver Standard Resources Inc., and is a director of Canplats Resources Corporation, Radiant Resources, Inc., IAMGold Corporation, Triumph Gold Corp. and Minco Silver Corporation. C. Thomas Ogryzlo is the President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of Polaris Geothermal Inc., and is a director of Tiomin Resources Inc., Birim Goldfields Inc. and Baja Mining Corp. Michael B. Richings, who is also our President and Chief Executive Officer, is a director of Allied Nevada Gold Corp., Triumph Gold Corp. (successor to IMC Ventures) and Zaruma Resources Inc., both of which hold interests in mining properties. John Clark is a director of Alberta Clipper Energy Inc. and Thunder Energy Trust (both Canadian oil and gas exploration and production companies) and Chief Financial Officer and a director of Polaris Geothermal Inc. W. Durand Eppler is Chief Executive Officer and a director of Coal International PLC, a director of Allied Nevada Gold Corp. and Augusta Resource Corporation. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. In the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict to a meeting of the directors of the company in question and to abstain from voting for or against approval of any matter in which such director may have a conflict. In appropriate cases, the company in question will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. In accordance with the laws of the Yukon 18 Territory, the directors of all Yukon Territory companies are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of a company for which they serve as a director. There may be challenges to our title in our mineral properties. There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. If there are title defects with respect to any of our properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert management's time from ongoing exploration and development programs. As discussed in our prior filings, and herein under "Part I — Item 3. Legal Proceedings", a legal dispute was initiated in Bolivia in April 1998 by a Mr. Estanislao Radic Valderrama ("Radic"), who brought legal proceedings in the lower penal court and, in 1999, brought proceedings in civil court against Mr. Raul Garafulic and us, questioning the validity of Mr. Garafulic's ownership of the Amayapampa property. In April 2005, Radic commenced a civil lawsuit in La Paz, Bolivia against Empresa Minera Nueva Vista S.A. ("Nueva Vista") and two of its predecessors in interest, seeking nullification of the public documents by which the mineral concessions comprising the "Grupo Minero Amayapampa" had been transferred to Nueva Vista. Nueva Vista and we did not learn of this lawsuit until the quarter ended June 30, 2006. This is Radic's second civil lawsuit attempting to nullify the transfer of the mineral concession to Nueva Vista and its predecessors in interest. Radic's prior civil suit, initiated in Potosi, Bolivia in 1999 as noted above, ended in April 2004 with a declaration that his cause of action had lapsed. In the present action, Nueva Vista and the other defendants have raised the defenses, among others, of prior adjudication (res judicata) and expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. We believe that Radic's contentions in the present suit are without merit and are taking appropriate legal action to confirm the validity of our interests in our holdings in Bolivia. Nueva Vista has asserted counterclaims against Radic for bad faith and recklessness in bringing the present action. While we do not anticipate that this lawsuit will result in any material adverse impact on Vista Gold or Nueva Vista or our holdings in Bolivia, we cannot assure that this will be the case. Our property interests in Bolivia, Mexico, Indonesia and Australia are subject to risks from political and economic instability in those countries. We have property interests in Bolivia, Mexico, Indonesia and Australia, which may be affected by risks associated with political or economic instability in those countries. The risks include, but are not limited to: military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, labor instability or militancy, mineral title irregularities and high rates of inflation. Changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Bolivia, Mexico, Indonesia or Australia may adversely affect our business. We may be affected in varying degrees by government regulation with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Recent political developments in Bolivia may adversely affect our Amayapampa project. On May 1, 2006, President Evo Morales of Bolivia, who took office in January 2006, signed a decree which effectively nationalized Bolivia's hydrocarbon industry. President Morales and others in his administration have made public statements regarding their desire to exert greater state control over all natural resource production in Bolivia, including mining. To date, there have been no formal proposals to nationalize the mining industry and it is not clear that such nationalization would take place. The government may, however, alter its current policies with respect to 19 the mining industry. If the Amayapampa project were nationalized, we might be unable to recover any significant portion of our investment in the project. The government could also substantially increase mining taxes or require significant royalty payments, which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the Amayapampa project. Our financial position and results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency values. Because we have mining exploration and evaluation operations in North and South America and in Australia and Indonesia, we are subject to foreign currency fluctuations, which may materially affect our financial position and results. We do not engage in currency hedging to offset any risk of currency fluctuations. We measure and report our financial results in U.S. dollars. We have mining projects in Bolivia, Mexico, Australia and Indonesia, and we are looking for other projects elsewhere in the world. Economic conditions and monetary policies in these countries can result in severe currency fluctuations. Currently all our material transactions in Mexico, Bolivia, Australia and Indonesia are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if we were to begin commercial operations in any of these or other countries, it is possible that material transactions incurred in the local currency, such as engagement of local contractors for major projects, will be settled at a U.S. dollar value that is different from the U.S. dollar value of the transaction at the time it was incurred. This could have the effect of undermining profits from operations in that country. Future sales of our common shares in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares and our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common shares or equity-related securities in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of common shares or the availability of common shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common shares. It may be difficult to enforce judgments or bring actions outside the United States against us and certain of our directors and officers. Vista Gold is a Canadian corporation and certain of its directors and officers are neither citizens nor residents of the United States. A substantial part of the assets of several of these persons, and of Vista Gold, are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for an investor: •to enforce in courts outside the United States judgments obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws against these persons and Vista Gold; or •to bring in courts outside the United States an original action to enforce liabilities based upon United States federal securities laws against these persons and Vista Gold. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 20 