ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company or otherwise associated with an investment in our securities. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 11 Operating Risks We cannot be assured that our Mt Todd gold project is feasible or that a feasibility study will accurately forecast operating results. The Mt Todd gold project is our principal asset. Our future profitability depends largely on the economic feasibility of the project. Before arranging financing for the Mt Todd gold project, we will have to complete a feasibility study. There can be no assurance that the results of the feasibility study will be positive or that such study will be completed when expected. If the Mt Todd gold project feasibility study is favorable, and if the project can be financed, there is no assurance that actual production rates, revenues, capital and operating costs at the Mt Todd gold project will not vary unfavorably from the estimates and assumptions included in the feasibility study. Our Mt Todd gold project requires substantial capital investment and we may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms or at all. The construction and operation of our Mt Todd gold project will require significant capital. Our ability to raise sufficient capital will depend on several factors, including a favorable feasibility study, acquisition of the requisite permits, macroeconomic conditions, and future gold prices. Uncontrollable factors such as lower gold prices, unanticipated operating or permitting challenges, illiquidity in the debt markets or a further dislocation in the gold mining equity markets as experienced in recent years, could prohibit our ability to finance the Mt Todd gold project on acceptable terms, if at all. If we decide to construct the mine at our Mt Todd gold project, we will be assuming certain reclamation obligations resulting in a material financial obligation. The Mt Todd gold project site was not reclaimed when the original mine closed. Although we are not currently responsible for the reclamation of these historical disturbances, we will accept full responsibility if and when we make a decision to finance and construct the mine. At that time, we will be required to provide a bond in a form satisfactory to the NT Government (in whose jurisdiction the Mt Todd gold project is located) that would cover the prospective expense of the reclamation of the property. In addition, the regulatory authorities may increase reclamation and bonding requirements from time to time. The satisfaction of these bonding requirements and continuing or future reclamation obligations will require a significant amount of capital. We may not be able to get the required permits to begin construction at our Mt Todd gold project in a timely manner or at all. Any delay in acquiring the requisite permits, or failure to receive required governmental approvals could delay or prevent the start of construction of our Mt Todd gold project. If we are unable to acquire permits to mine the property, then the project cannot be developed and operated; in addition it will have no reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and NI 43-101, which would result in an impairment of the carrying value of the project. There may be other delays in the construction of our Mt Todd gold project. Delays in commencement of construction could result from factors such as availability and performance of engineering and construction contractors, suppliers and consultants; availability of required equipment; and availability of capital. Any delay in the performance of any one or more of the contractors, suppliers, consultants or other persons on which we depend, or lack of availability of required equipment, or delay or failure to receive required governmental approvals, or financing could delay or prevent commencement of construction at the Mt Todd gold project. There can be no assurance of whether or when construction at the Mt Todd gold project will start or that the necessary personnel, equipment or supplies will be available to the Company if and when construction is started. Increased costs could impede our ability to become profitable. In the past several years, costs associated with capital and operating expenditures have escalated on an industry-wide basis. Costs at any particular mining location frequently are subject to variation due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, changing metallurgy, and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities, fuel, electricity, operating supplies and labor. These costs are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make future production at our Mt Todd gold project less profitable or uneconomic. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 12 We cannot be assured that we will have an adequate water supply at our Mt Todd gold project. Water at the Mt Todd gold project is expected to be provided from a fresh water reservoir which is fed by seasonal rains. Drought or drought-like conditions in the area feeding the reservoir could limit or extinguish this water supply, and all operations would have to stop until the water supply is replenished. We could be subject to litigation or other legal claims. Our assets or our business activities may be subject to disputes that may result in litigation or other legal claims. We may be required to respond to or defend against these claims which will divert resources away from our principal business. There can be no assurance that our defense of such claims would be successful, and we may be required to make material settlements. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows, results of operations, and corporate reputation. We rely on third parties to fulfill their obligations under agreements. Our business strategy includes entering into agreements with third-parties (“Partners”) which may earn the right to obtain a majority interest in certain of our projects, in part by managing the respective project. Whether or not we hold a majority interest in a respective project, our Partner(s) may: (i) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with or opposed to ours; (ii) exercise veto rights to block actions that we believe to be in the best interests of the project; (iii) take action contrary to our policies or objectives; or (iv) as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the respective joint venture, option, earn-in right or other agreement(s), such as contributing capital for the expansion or maintenance of projects. Any one or a combination of these could result in liabilities for us and/or could adversely affect the value of the related project(s) and, by association, damage our reputation and consequently our ability to acquire or advance other projects and/or attract future co-venturers. Our exploration and development interests are subject to evolving environmental regulations. Our property and royalty interests are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is becoming more restrictive in some countries or jurisdictions in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our interest. Currently, our property and royalty interests are subject to government environmental regulations in Australia, Bolivia, Indonesia, Mexico and the U.S. We could be subject to environmental lawsuits. Neighboring landowners and other third parties could file claims based on environmental statutes and common law for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste material into the environment on or around our properties. There can be no assurance that our defense of such claims would be successful. This could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operation, and corporate reputation. There may be challenges to our title to mineral properties. There may be challenges to our title to our mineral properties. If there are title defects with respect to any of our properties, we may be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues could divert Company resources from our core strategies. Our property and royalty interests in Mexico, Bolivia and Indonesia are subject to risks from political and economic instability. We have property and royalty interests in Bolivia, Mexico and Indonesia that may be affected by risks associated with political or economic instability in those countries. The risks include, but are not limited to, military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, labor instability or militancy, mineral title irregularities and high rates of inflation. In addition, changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in these countries may adversely affect our business. We may be affected in varying degrees by government regulation with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. 13 Financial and Business Risks A substantial or extended decline in gold prices would have a material adverse effect on the value of our assets, on our ability to raise capital and could result in lower than estimated economic returns. The value of our assets, our ability to raise capital and our future economic returns are substantially dependent on the price of gold. The gold price fluctuates on a daily basis and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Factors tending to influence gold prices include: · gold sales or leasing by governments and central banks or changes in their monetary policy, including gold inventory management and reallocation of reserves; · speculative short positions taken by significant investors or traders in gold; · the relative strength of the U.S. dollar; · expectations of the future rate of inflation; · interest rates; · changes to economic activity in the United States, China, India and other industrialized or developing countries; · geopolitical conflicts; · changes in jewelry, investment or industrial demand; · changes in supply from production, disinvestment and scrap; and · forward sales by producers in hedging or similar transactions. A substantial or extended decline in the gold price could: · negatively impact our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all; · jeopardize the development of our Mt Todd gold project; · reduce our existing estimated mineral resources and reserves by removing ores from these estimates that could not be economically processed at the lower gold price; · reduce the potential for future revenues from gold projects in which we have an interest; · reduce funds available to us for exploration with the result that we may not be able to further advance any of our projects; and · reduce the market value of our assets, including our investment in Midas Gold Shares and our royalty interests in projects in Bolivia and Indonesia. We have a history of losses, and we do not expect to generate earnings from operations or pay dividends in the near term. We are an Exploration Stage Enterprise. As such, we devote our efforts to exploration, analysis and, if warranted, development of our projects. We do not currently produce gold and do not currently generate operating earnings. We finance our business activities principally by issuing equity and/or debt and selling non-core assets. We have incurred losses in all periods since 1998, except for the year ended December 31, 2011, during which we recorded non-cash net gains. We expect to continue this trend of incurring losses for the foreseeable future. We have no history of paying dividends and we do not expect to pay dividends or to make any similar distribution in the foreseeable future. We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. Our exploration and, if warranted, development activities and the construction and start-up of any mining operation require substantial amounts of capital. We will have to raise additional funds from external sources in order to maintain and advance our Mt Todd gold project, to more fully explore the exploration licenses contiguous to the Mt Todd mining licenses, and to acquire new gold projects. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms, and, if additional financing is not available, we may have to substantially reduce or cease operations. Our exploration and development activities or any acquisition activities may not be commercially successful. Substantial expenditures are required to acquire gold properties, to establish mineral reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. We cannot be assured that any mineral reserves or mineral resources acquired, established or discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds invested in them will ever be recovered. We face intense competition in the mining industry. The mining industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases. Some of our competitors are much larger, established mining companies with greater financial and technical resources than ours. We compete with other mining companies for attractive mining 14 claims, for capital, for equipment and supplies, for outside services and for qualified managerial and technical employees. Competition for capital has reduced the amount of capital available and increased the associated cost of raising capital. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, we will be unable to execute exploration and development programs or such programs may be reduced in scope, which is what we have done at our Mt Todd gold project, for example. Competition for equipment and supplies could result in shortage of necessary supplies and/or increased costs. Competition for outside services could result in increased costs, reduced quality of service and/or delays in completing services. If we cannot successfully retain or attract qualified employees, our ability to advance the development of the Mt Todd gold project, to attract necessary financing, to meet all of our environmental and regulatory responsibilities, or to take opportunities to improve our business, could be negatively affected. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and corporate reputation. The occurrence of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flow and overall profitability. We maintain insurance policies that mitigate certain risks related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in amounts that we believe to be reasonable based on the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, we may elect not to have insurance for certain risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons; in other cases, insurance may not be available for certain risks. We do not insure against political risk. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured could result in significant costs that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fund our business. A significant loss or liability could force us to reduce or terminate operations on a specific project. Our stock price may be volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the price of our common stock may include, among other things: · changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; · stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the mining industry; · speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; · conditions or trends in our industry or the economy generally; · changes in the prices of gold; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our costs. We have property interests in Australia, Bolivia, Indonesia and Mexico. Most costs are incurred in the local currency. The appreciation of the local currencies against the U.S. dollar effectively increases the cost of doing business in these countries. This could have the effect of increasing the amount of capital required to continue to explore and develop any project, and/or reducing the pace at which certain projects can be developed. The Company is likely a “passive foreign investment company,” which will likely have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. U.S. shareholders of our common shares should be aware that the Company believes it was classified as a PFIC during the taxable year ended December 31, 2014, and based on current business plans and financial projections, management believes there is a significant likelihood that the Company will be a PFIC during the current taxable year. If the Company is a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of Common Shares, or any so-called “excess distribution” received on their Common Shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distributions, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effective “qualified electing fund” (“QEF Election”) or a “mark-to-market” election with respect to the Common Shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF Election generally must report on a current basis its share of the net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which the Company is PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. U.S. shareholders should be aware that there can be no assurance that the Company will satisfy record keeping requirements that apply to a QEF Election, or that the Company will supply U.S. shareholders with information that such U.S. shareholders require to report under the QEF Election rules, in event that the Company is a PFIC and a U.S. shareholder wishes to make a QEF Election. Thus, U.S. shareholders may not be able to make a QEF Election with respect to their Common Shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the Common Shares over the taxpayer’s basis therein. This 15 paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below in Item 5 under the heading “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Each U.S. shareholder should consult his or her own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. state and local, and foreign tax consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of Common Shares. Industry Risks Calculations of mineral reserves and mineral resources are estimates only and subject to uncertainty. The estimating of mineral reserves and mineral resources is an imprecise process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quantity and quality of available data, the assumptions used and judgments made in interpreting engineering and geological information and estimating future capital and operating costs. There is significant uncertainty in any reserve or resource estimate, and the economic results of mining an ore deposit may differ materially from the estimates. Feasibility studies are estimates only and subject to uncertainty. Feasibility studies are used to determine the economic viability of an ore deposit, as are pre-feasibility studies and preliminary economic assessments. Feasibility studies are the most detailed studies and reflect a higher level of confidence in the estimated production rates, and capital and operating costs. Generally accepted levels of confidence are plus or minus 15% for feasibility studies, plus or minus 25-30% for pre-feasibility studies and plus or minus 35-40% for preliminary economic assessments. These levels reflect the levels of confidence that exist at the time the study is completed. Subsequent changes to metal prices, foreign exchange rates (if applicable), reclamation requirements, operating and capital costs may differ materially from these estimates. Mining companies are increasingly required to consider and provide benefits to the communities and countries in which they operate, and are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. As a result of public concern about the real or perceived detrimental effects of economic globalization and global climate impacts, businesses in general, and the mining industry in particular, face increasing public scrutiny of their activities. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that, as they seek to generate satisfactory returns on investment to shareholders, other stakeholders, including employees, governments, indigenous peoples, communities surrounding operations and the countries in which they operate, benefit and will continue to benefit from their commercial activities. The potential consequences of these pressures include reputational damage, legal suits, increased costs, increased social investment obligations and pressure to increase taxes and royalties payable to governments and communities. Mining exploration, development and operating activities are inherently hazardous. Mineral exploration involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed any liability insurance policy limits. It is also possible that the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or, we could elect not to be insured against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event, we could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Regulations and pending legislation involving climate change could result in increased operating costs. Gold production is energy intensive, resulting in a significant carbon footprint. A number of governments and/or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. This type of legislation and possible future legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 