ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2011 Form 10-KWe are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories.Our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the customers we serve. As the demand for products produced in our service area declines, we ordinarily experience reduced demand for electricity and/or natural gas. During 2011, our service territory experienced growth, but future growth could be impacted by the overall economy in our service territories. If the economic conditions in our service territories and/or demand for products produced in our service area does not continue to improve or declines again, we could experience a reduction in demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. We would also expect our collections of accounts receivable to be adversely impacted.Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations.Our cost of providing defined benefit pension plans is dependent upon a number of factors including actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. Plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. A decline in the market value of these assets, as experienced in prior periods, may increase our funding requirements. Changes in interest rates affect plan liabilities - as rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could increase our funding requirements. Changes in demographics, such as an increase in the number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase our funding requirements. Changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension costs. These additional funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations.Our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses.Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. A loss for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject.ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.ITEM 2.PROPERTIESWe own our principal properties outright, except that the major portion of our electric utility distribution lines, steam utility distribution mains and gas utility distribution mains and services are located, for the most part, on or under streets and highways and on land owned by others and are generally subject to granted easements, consents or permits. 32Wisconsin Energy Corporation