ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-Kcurrent and future pension costs. In addition, it is possible that medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. If we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted.Our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses.Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.Risks Related to Our Proposed Acquisition of IntegrysWe may be unable to satisfy the conditions or obtain the approvals required to complete the acquisition of Integrys or such approvals may contain material restrictions or conditions.Completion of the acquisition of Integrys remains subject to the approval of various government agencies. We cannot provide assurance that we will obtain all required consents or approvals, or that the regulatory consents or approvals will not impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the acquisition, including restrictions on the business, operations or financial performance of the combined company. These conditions or changes could also delay or materially and adversely affect the business results and financial condition of the combined company.While the acquisition of Integrys is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could materially adversely affect our operations and the future of our business.The Merger Agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the acquisition of Integrys, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent Integrys’ prior written consent. We may find that these and other contractual arrangements in the Merger Agreement may delay or prevent us from or limit our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future business opportunities that may arise during such period, even if our management thinks they may be advisable. The pendency of the acquisition may also divert management’s attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations. If any of these effects were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our operations and the future of our business, regardless of whether the acquisition is completed.If completed, the acquisition of Integrys may not achieve its intended results.We entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the acquisition of Integrys would result in various benefits. If the acquisition is completed, achieving the anticipated benefits will be subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether Wisconsin Energy's and Integrys' businesses can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could adversely affect our business, financial results and share price.ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 34Wisconsin Energy Corporation 2014 Form 10-KITEM 2.PROPERTIESWe own our principal properties outright, except that the major portion of our electric utility distribution lines, steam utility distribution mains and gas utility distribution mains and services are located, for the most part, on or under streets and highways and on land owned by others and are generally subject to granted easements, consents or permits.As of December 31, 2014, we owned the following generating assets: No. of Dependable Generating CapabilityName Fuel Units In MW (a)Coal-Fired Plants South Oak Creek Coal 4 993Oak Creek Expansion Coal 2 1,057Presque Isle Coal 5 344Pleasant Prairie Coal 2 1,188Valley Power Plant Coal 1 118Milwaukee County Coal 3 7Total Coal-Fired Plants 17 3,707Natural Gas-Fired Plants Valley Power Plant Gas 1 118Port Washington Generating Station Gas 2 1,082Germantown Combustion Turbines Gas/Oil 5 258Concord Combustion Turbines Gas/Oil 4 352Paris Combustion Turbines Gas/Oil 4 352Other Combustion Turbines & Diesel Gas/Oil 2 —Total Natural Gas-Fired Plants 18 2,162Renewables Hydro Plants (13 in number) 33 39Rothschild Biomass Plant Biomass 1 50Byron Wind Turbines Wind 2 —Blue Sky Green Field Wind 88 29Glacier Hills Wind 90 32Montfort Wind Energy Center Wind 20 5Total Renewables 234 155Total System 269 6,024(a)Dependable capability is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. We are a summer peaking electric utility. The values are established by tests and may change slightly from year to year. Dependable capability for the wind sites is determined based on a capacity factor of approximately 20%.As of December 31, 2014, we operated approximately 21,457 pole-miles of overhead distribution lines and 24,303 miles of underground distribution cable, as well as approximately 350 distribution substations and 295,461 line transformers.As of December 31, 2014, our gas distribution system included approximately 21,382 miles of distribution and transmission mains connected at 184 gate stations to the pipeline transmission systems of ANR Pipeline Company, Guardian Pipeline L.L.C., Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, Northern Natural Pipeline Company, Great Lakes Transmission Company, Viking Gas Transmission and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company. We have liquefied natural gas storage plants which convert and store, in liquefied form, natural gas received during periods of low consumption. The liquefied natural gas storage plants have a send-out capability of 73,600 Dth per day. We also have propane air systems for peaking purposes. These propane air systems will provide approximately 35Wisconsin Energy Corporation