Item 1A. Risk Factors The foregoing business discussion and the other information included in this Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the following risks, trends and uncertainties, any of which, either individually or in the aggregate, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Advertising represents the largest portion of our revenues In an expanding economy, classified advertising and fictitious business name legal advertising normally increase while trustee sale legal notice advertising declines. The reverse is normally also true. Because the Company’s business is concentrated in California, our advertising revenues are particularly susceptible to trends affecting California and the West. Classified and display advertising constituted about 34% of the Company’s revenues in fiscal 2006. Recently, Internet sites devoted to recruitment have become significant competitors of our newspapers and websites for classified advertising. In addition, there has been a steady consolidation of companies serving the legal market place, resulting in an ever-smaller group of companies placing display advertising. Consequently, retaining advertising revenues remains a challenge. Public notice advertising revenues and related advertising and other service fees for the Company constituted about 28% of the Company’s total revenues in fiscal 2006. In many states, including California and Arizona, legislatures have considered various proposals which would result in the elimination or reduction of the amount of public notice advertising required by statute. There is a risk that such laws could change in a manner that would have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s public notice advertising revenues. The decline in circulation that we have experienced in recent years is likely to continue and may impact our ability to attract and retain advertisers Competition for advertising is based largely on reader demographics, price, advertiser results, circulation and readership levels, while competition for circulation is based largely on the content of the newspaper, service and price. Circulation revenues constituted about 28% of the Company’s total revenues in fiscal 2006. The steady decline in recent years in the number of subscriptions to The Daily Journals and the Company’s court rule publications is likely to continue and will certainly impact the Company’s future revenues. Our newspapers face competition from other publications and from other forms of media for news and information, and our court rules publications face competition from free online court services. A substantial majority of Sustain’s revenues come from one customer The Company’s revenues derived from Sustain’s operations constituted about 10% of the Company’s total revenues in fiscal 2006. In recent years, a substantial majority of Sustain’s consulting revenues has come from projects for the California Administrative Office of the Courts. The level of services that Sustain is called upon to perform can fluctuate over time. In addition, the Administrative Office of the Courts generally can terminate its professional services agreement with Sustain on 30 days’ notice. A reduction in the revenue generated by projects for 12 the Administrative Office of the Courts could have a materially adverse impact on Sustain’s business. Our expenditures in support of the Sustain software are highly significant As a technology based company, Sustain’s success depends on the continued development and improvement of its products. The Company’s expenditures in support of the Sustain software are highly significant and will continue to be necessary to maintain and grow Sustain’s business, as customers demand additional functionality and Internet-based products. Sustain’s internal development costs, which are primarily incremental costs, are being expensed as incurred and accordingly will materially impact earnings at least through fiscal 2007. If the Company is unable to fund all such development, or if the development programs are not successful, it will negatively affect the Company’s ability to maximize its existing investment in the Sustain software and to compete for new opportunities in the case management software business. Paper and postage costs may be volatile and difficult to predict and control In fiscal 2006, paper and postage accounted for approximately 8% of our publishing segment’s operating costs. An adequate supply of newsprint and other paper is important to the Company’s operations. The Company currently does not have a contract with any paper supplier. The Company has always been able to obtain sufficient newsprint for its operations, although in the past, shortages of newsprint have sometimes resulted in higher prices. We use the U.S. Postal Service for distribution of a majority of our newspapers and all of our magazines. Postal rates are dependent on the operating efficiency of the U.S. Postal Service and on legislative mandates imposed upon the U.S. Postal Service. Since 2003, the price of paper has increased moderately. Paper prices may fluctuate substantially in the future, and periodic postal rate increases could significantly impact income from operations. Further, we may not be able to pass on such increases to our customers. We have credit exposure if our advertising customers become unable to pay We extend unsecured credit to most of our advertising customers. We recognize that extending credit and setting appropriate reserves for receivables is largely a subjective decision based on knowledge of the customer and the industry. Credit exposure also includes the amount of estimated unbilled sales. Credit limits, setting and maintaining credit standards, and managing the overall quality of the credit portfolio is largely centralized. The level of credit is influenced by the customer’s credit history with us. We maintain a reserve account for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial conditions of our customers were to deteriorate or our judgments about their abilities to pay are incorrect, additional allowances might be required and our results of operations could be materially affected. We are sometimes subject to litigation, and we have never resolved certain disputes related to the work of a terminated outside service provider From time to time, the Company is a party to litigation and regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or other 13 proceedings could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our business as it is presently being conducted. There has never been a resolution of the payment dispute between Sustain and a terminated outside service provider whose software development work was terminated by Sustain in April 2001 as a result of serious flaws and long delays. The terminated outside service provider filed for bankruptcy in December 2001 and stated in its filings with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court that it was considering bringing a collection action against Sustain. If it does, Sustain will assert counter-claims that completely offset the terminated outside provider’s claims. Sustain will vigorously defend any litigation or action brought by the terminated outside service provider, although no assurances can be made as to the ultimate outcome of the dispute. Sustain received a letter in April 2003 from counsel to the Ontario, Canada Ministry of the Solicitor General, Ministry of Public Safety and Security and Ministry of the Attorney General (collectively, the “Ministries”). The Ministries had entered into a contract with Sustain, dated as of April 22, 1999 (the “Contract”), pursuant to which the Ministries sought to license the software product that was to be developed by the outside service provider referred to above. The Contract was formally terminated in June 2002. The letter from counsel purported to invoke the dispute resolution process set forth in the Contract and claimed damages in the amount of $20 million. Counsel for Sustain and counsel for the Ministries engaged in preliminary discussions with respect to this matter, and the dispute resolution process set forth in the Contract was not utilized. Counsel for Sustain last communicated with counsel for the Ministries by a letter sent in April 2003. We are regularly audited by federal and state taxing authorities, and our utilization of a research and development credit is currently under review by the IRS We are subject to both federal and state income taxes and are regularly audited by federal and state taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and in establishing appropriate reserves. We analyze our tax positions on an ongoing basis and make adjustments when warranted based on changes in facts and circumstances. Currently under review by the Internal Revenue Service is the status of a research and development credit of $800,000 that was utilized by the Company in the prior two fiscal years. Any adjustment to the credit amount would result in an additional federal income tax assessment, although the amount of any possible adjustment is not known at this time. While we believe our tax positions are reasonable, a successful challenge by taxing authorities could negatively impact our effective tax rate, net income and cash flows. We rely heavily on our president and chief executive officer, Gerald Salzman Gerald Salzman serves as the Company’s president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, assistant secretary and treasurer. He also serves as a director of the Company. If Mr. Salzman’s services were no longer available to us, it is unlikely that the Company could find a single replacement to perform all of the duties now handled by him, and it could have a significant adverse affect on our business. We do not carry key-man life insurance, nor have we entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Salzman. 14 Changes in accounting standards could significantly impact reported earnings and operating results Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying pronouncements for certain aspects of our business, including software development costs and the realization of subscription revenue, are complex and involve significant judgments. Changes in the rules or their interpretation could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results. For more information, see Section 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies. 