Risk Factors Relating to the Property and Casualty Insurance Industry Our industry is exposed to catastrophic losses. We are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on the results of operations, and/or financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including tornadoes, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, tsunamis, hailstorms, explosions, power outages, severe winter weather, fires and intentional man-made events, such as terrorist attacks. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for catastrophes until such event takes place. Therefore, although we actively manage our exposure through the underwriting process and the purchase of reinsurance protection, a catastrophe or series of catastrophes could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and/or financial condition. We have exposure to catastrophe in all of our product divisions; including, but not limited to the following: in our E&S division, we underwrite property that is potentially exposed to catastrophe losses; through our Reinsurance division we are exposed to catastrophes (hurricane, earthquake, etc.) worldwide but have participated with a finite limit during the treaty period; our ART division’s dealer open lot program is catastrophe exposed and this risk has been reinsured. Our industry is exposed to terrorism. We may also have exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism. Even if reinsurers are able to exclude coverage for terrorist acts or price that coverage at rates that we consider unattractive, direct insurers, like us, might not be able to likewise exclude terrorist acts because of regulatory constraints. If this does occur, we could have gap in our reinsurance protection and would be exposed to potential losses as a result of any terrorist acts. These events are inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict occurrence of such events with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss per occurrence they will generate. If there is a future terrorist attack, the possibility remains that losses resulting from such event could prove to be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist acts may also cause multiple claims, and there is no assurance that our attempts to limit our liability through contractual policy provisions will be effective. Policy pricing in our industry is cyclical, and our financial results are impacted by that cyclicality. The property and casualty insurance industry has historically been a cyclical industry consisting of both “hard market” periods and “soft market” periods. The E&S lines market historically has tended to move in response to the underwriting cycles in the standard insurance market. Hard market periods are characterized by shortages of underwriting capacity, limited availability of capital, less competition and higher premium rates. Typically, during hard markets, as rates increase and coverage terms become more restrictive, business shifts from the standard insurance market to the E&S lines market as standard insurance market carriers rely on traditional underwriting techniques and focus on their core business lines. In soft markets, business shifts from the E&S lines market to the standard insurance market as standard insurance market carriers tend to change underwriting standards and seek to expand market share by moving into business lines traditionally characterized as “surplus lines.” Our industry is subject to significant and increasing regulatory scrutiny. In recent years, the insurance industry has been subject to a significant and increasing level of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies, including state attorneys general and insurance departments, concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include the receipt of contingent commissions by insurance brokers and agents from insurance companies and the extent to which this compensation has been disclosed, bid rigging and related matters. As a result of these and related matters, there have been a number of recent revisions to existing, or proposals to modify or enact new, laws and regulations regarding the relationship between insurance companies and producers. Any changes or further requirements that are adopted by federal, state or local governments could adversely affect our business and operating results. 33 Table of Contents We operate in a heavily regulated industry, and existing and future regulations may constrain how we conduct our business and could impose liabilities and other obligations upon us. Insurance Regulation. Our primary insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, as well as our non-subsidiary risk retention group affiliate, are subject to regulation under applicable insurance statutes of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled or licensed and write insurance. This regulation may limit our ability to, or speed with which we can, effectively respond to market opportunities and may require us to incur significant annual regulatory compliance expenditures. Insurance regulation is intended to provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect shareholders of insurance companies. Insurance regulation relates to authorized business lines, capital and surplus requirements, types and amounts of investments, underwriting limitations, trade practices, policy forms, premium rates, claims practices, mandated participation in shared markets, loss reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, transactions with related parties, changes in control, payment of dividends and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company’s business. For instance, our domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital, or RBC, restrictions. RBC is a method of measuring the amount of capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business in light of its size and risk profile. The ratio of a company’s actual policyholder surplus to its minimum capital requirements will determine whether any state regulatory action is required. State regulatory authorities use the RBC formula to identify insurance companies which may be undercapitalized and may require further regulatory attention. Any changes in insurance laws and regulations could materially affect our operating results. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, created the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the Treasury Department. The FIO is responsible for gathering information and monitoring the insurance industry to identify gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or U.S. financial system. The FIO also has the authority to recommend changes to state insurance laws and regulations. We are unable to predict whether the FIO will recommend any such changes, whether any states will adopt any such changes, or what effect such changes may have on our insurance operations. In addition, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the “NAIC”) is considering the adoption of all or part of Solvency II, including minimum capital requirements that could be in excess of our minimum capital requirements established by current state regulations. If the NAIC adopted Solvency II including additional capital requirements, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted. Solvency II is an EU legislative program to be implemented in all 27 Member States, including the UK. It introduces a new, harmonized EU-wide insurance regulatory regime. The legislation replaces 13 existing EU insurance directives. Bermuda has adopted the Bermuda Solvency Requirement (the “BSCR”) model, which is a risk based capital model introduced by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (the “BMA”). The BSCR measures risk and determines enhanced capital requirements and a target capital level. As a Class 3 reinsurer, ASRe is not currently subject to the requirements of the BCSR. Any change in ASRe’s classification as a Class 3 Reinsurer would subject ASRe to the enhanced capital requirements of the BSCR and could materially impact our operating results. We are unable to predict what additional laws and regulations, if any, affecting our business may be promulgated in the future or how they might be interpreted. Dividend Regulation. Like other insurance holding companies, American Safety Insurance relies on dividends from its insurance subsidiaries to be able to fulfill its financial obligations. The payment of dividends by these subsidiaries and other intercompany transactions are subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus and earnings of these subsidiaries. As a result, insurance holding companies may not be able to receive dividends from their subsidiaries at times and in amounts sufficient to fulfill their other financial obligations. Additionally, as a Bermuda holding company, American Safety Insurance is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect its ability to pay dividends on the Common Shares and to make other payments. Under the Companies Act 1981, of Bermuda (“the Companies Act”) an insurance holding company may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only if it has reasonable grounds to believe that it is, and would after the payment be, able to pay liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of its assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on the Common Shares in the near future. 34 Table of Contents Environmental Regulation. Environmental remediation activities and other environmental risks are heavily regulated by both federal and state governments. Environmental regulation is continually evolving, and changes in the regulatory patterns at federal and state levels may have a significant effect upon potential claims against our insureds and us. These changes also may affect the demand for the types of insurance offered by us and the availability or cost of reinsurance. We are unable to predict what additional laws and regulations, if any, affecting environmental remediation activities and other environmental risks may be promulgated in the future, how they might be applied, and what their impact might be. The risk factors presented above are all of the ones that we consider to be material as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K. However, they are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or which we consider immaterial based on our current knowledge or understanding, may also adversely affect us. There may be risks that a particular investor views differently than we do, and our analysis may be incorrect. If any of the risks that we face actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and could differ materially from any possible results suggested by any forward-looking statements that we have made or may make. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 