Item 1A. Risk Factors Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by the Company, including its common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The Company must recognize and attempt to manage these risks as it implements its strategies to successfully compete with other companies in the financial services industry. Some of the more important risks common to the industry and the Company are: 19 ● credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will be unable to meet their contractual obligations, leading to loan losses and reduced interest income; ● market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect the results of operations or financial condition; ● liquidity risk, which is the risk that funds will not be available at a reasonable cost to meet operating and strategic needs; ● compliance risk, which is the risk of failure to comply with requirements imposed by regulators; ● reputation risk, which is the risk that negative perceptions of a business will adversely affect operations and financial performance; and ● operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events, such as natural disasters. Although the Company generally is not significantly more susceptible to adverse effects from these or other common risk factors than other industry participants, there are certain aspects of the Company’s business model that may expose it to somewhat higher levels of risk. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, these risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s overall risk profile. Additional risks not presently known, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also adversely affect Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a $10 million payment due on our note payable in January of 2012; in January 2012 we are required to begin paying quarterly principal payments on the note payable; and we may not be able to refinance, renew, or raise sufficient capital to repay, the note. BancTrust has outstanding a $20 million note payable secured by the stock of the Bank. The FDIC as receiver for Silverton Bank, N.A. is the holder of the note payable. We have received written confirmation from the servicer of the note that the FDIC has approved a modification pursuant to which BancTrust will be required to make a $10 million principal payment on January 1, 2012 and will then be required to begin making quarterly principal payments of $1.25 million, in addition to quarterly interest payments. We have received Federal Reserve approval of this modification. These principal payments were originally scheduled to begin in April of 2011. In order to make the January 2012 principal payments and satisfy its other obligations under this note, BancTrust must either raise additional capital or issue debt in a sufficient amoun t to enable repayment, or renew or extend the note payable. Any renewal or extension of the note would require FDIC approval. In addition, we are currently required to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta prior to incurring additional debt or modifying or refinancing the terms of existing debt. We believe that completing an equity offering sufficient to fund the required note payments is the best option at this time; however, we will seek FDIC and Federal Reserve approval for a modification of the note if we are not able to make the required payments. Management will continue to analyze its options for repayment, renewal or replacement of this note payable over the ensuing months and undertake what it deems to be the Company’s best available course of action within the required timeframe; however, as noted above, some of the factors upon which our ability to repay this note depends are beyond our control. Failure to timely repay, modify or replace this note would have a material adverse effect on BancTrust. We are required to obtain regulatory approval in order to obtain funds from our subsidiary necessary to meet our obligations and in order to declare dividends on our preferred stock. BancTrust’s ability to pay its commitments as they come due is largely dependent upon dividends from its subsidiary Bank. BancTrust’s most significant recurring commitments consist of interest payments on debt obligations, dividends on the preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury and operating costs. The Bank is currently unable to pay dividends without regulatory approval. In addition, we are unable to declare dividends on our preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury without prior approval from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. The Bank requested and received permission to pay dividends of $6 million to BancTrust in 2010, and we have, to date, been able to obtain Federal Reserve approval for the declaration of dividends on our preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury. Management plans to request appro val for additional Bank and holding company dividends as needed during the year. As long as the Bank remains classified under regulatory guidelines as well capitalized, we expect to be able to obtain approval for the Bank to make dividend payments sufficient to enable BancTrust to meet its commitments. We also expect to be able to obtain Federal Reserve approval to declare dividends on our preferred stock. However, we cannot provide assurance that the applicable regulatory agencies will grant our requests in full or in part, and BancTrust’s inability to meet its commitments would have a material adverse effect on the Company. 20 Our businesses have been and will likely continue to be adversely affected by recent and current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Recessionary conditions and a subsequent period of slow recovery in the broader economy could adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in the Company’s market area. These conditions could, among other consequences, increase the credit risk inherent in the current loan portfolio, restrain new loan demand from creditworthy borrowers, prompt the Company to tighten its underwriting criteria, and reduce the liquidity in the Company’s customer base and the level of deposits that they maintain. These economic conditions could also delay the correction of the imbalance of supply and demand in certain real estate markets as discussed below. Legislative and regulatory actions taken in response to these conditions could impose additional restrictions and requirements on the Company and others in the financia l industry. The impact on the Company’s financial results could include continued high levels of problem credits, provisions for credit losses and expenses associated with loan collection efforts, the possible impairment of certain intangible or deferred tax assets, the need for the Company to replace core deposits with higher-cost sources of funds, and an inability to produce loan growth or overall growth in earning assets. Non-interest income from sources that are dependent on financial transactions and market valuations could also be reduced. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and their implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (“EESA”). Under EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages and other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. One of the programs created by EESA is the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Treasury and federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs unde r this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the Capital Purchase Program available through the TARP, in which BancTrust participated. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) announced the development of a guarantee program under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) pursuant to which the FDIC would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions (the “FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program”). On February 10, 2009, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner announced the Financial Stability Plan, which earmarks the second $350 billion originally authorized under the EESA. The Financial Stability Plan is intended to, among other things, make capital available to financial institutions, purchase certain loans and assets from financial institutions, restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses and relieve certain pressures on the housing market, including the reduction of mortgage payments and interest rates. In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), was signed into law on February 17, 2009, with the stated purposes of: 21 ● Preserving and creating jobs and promoting economic recovery; ● Assisting those most impacted by the recession; ● Providing investments needed to increase economic efficiency by spurring technological advances in science and health; ● Investing in transportation, environmental protection, and other infrastructure that will provide long-term economic benefits; and ● Stabilizing state and local government budgets, in order to minimize and avoid reductions in essential services and counter-productive state and local tax increases. ARRA includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation arrangements of financial institutions such as BancTrust participating in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition, on July 21, 2010, sweeping financial regulatory reform legislation entitled the “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act implements far-reaching changes across the financial regulatory landscape, including provisions that, among other things: ● Create a Financial Services Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; ● Centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, responsible for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws; ● Establish strengthened capital standards for banks and bank holding companies, and disallow trust preferred securities from being included in a bank's Tier 1 capital determination (subject to a grandfather provision for existing trust preferred securities); ● Contain a series of provisions covering mortgage loan origination standards affecting, among other things, originator compensation, minimum repayment standards and pre-payments; ● Require bank holding companies to be well-capitalized and well-managed to become a financial holding company and require bank holding companies and banks to be both well-capitalized and well-managed in order to acquire banks located outside their home state; ● Grant the Federal Reserve the power to regulate debit card interchange fees; ● Implement corporate governance revisions, including with regard to executive compensation and proxy access by shareholders, that apply to all public companies, not just financial institutions; ● Make permanent the $250 thousand limit for federal deposit insurance and increase the cash limit of Securities Investor Protection Corporation protection from $100 thousand to $250 thousand and provide unlimited federal deposit insurance until January 1, 2013 for non-interest bearing demand transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions; ● Repeal the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts; and ● Increase the authority of the Federal Reserve to examine the Company and its nonbank subsidiaries. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company, its customers or the financial industry as a whole. Provisions in the legislation that affect deposit insurance assessments, payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with deposits and place limitations on certain revenues those deposits may generate. Provisions in the legislation that revoke the Tier 1 capital treatment of trust preferred securities and otherwise require revisions to the capital requirements of the Company and the Bank could require us to seek other sources of capital in the future. For institutions such as BancTrust with assets less than $15 billion, currently outstanding trust preferred securities will continue to be included in Tier 1 capital indefinitely under the Dodd-Frank Act, but new trust preferred securities would be excluded from Tier 1 capital. 22 There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, as supplemented by the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA, the Dodd-Frank Act and other programs will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the Financial Stability Plan, the Dodd-Frank Act and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA, ARRA, the Financial Stability Plan and the Dodd-Frank Act are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. We are unable to predict the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. The programs established or to be established under the EESA, TARP and the Dodd-Frank Act may have adverse effects upon us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program will limit (without the consent of the Department of Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. It will also subject us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDIA, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. Participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We would be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums even if we did not participate in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect BancTrust’s ability to attract key employees or retain its highest performing employees. In the case of a company such as BancTrust that sold preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, the ARRA contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the five executives named in a company’s proxy statement and the next twenty highest paid employees. These restrictions may prevent BancTrust from being able to create a compensation structure that permits it to attract key employees and retain its highest performing employees. If this were to occur, the Company’s business and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. As a result of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program and the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, we may face additional regulation, and we cannot predict the cost or effects of compliance at this time. In connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase Program administered under the TARP, we may face additional regulations and/or reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, the following: Section 5.3 of the standardized Securities Purchase Agreement that we entered into with the U.S. Treasury provides, in part, that the U.S. Treasury “may unilaterally amend any provision of this Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after the Signing Date in applicable federal statutes.” This provision gives Congress the ability to impose “after-the-fact” terms and conditions, such as those contained in the ARRA, on participants in the Capital Purchase Program. As a participant in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to any such retroactive legislation. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. Participation in the Capital Purchase Program will limit our ability to increase our dividend on, or to repurchase, our common stock (without the consent of the U.S. Treasury) for so long as any securities issued under the program remain outstanding. The FDIC recently requested that all state-chartered banks monitor and report how they have spent funds received from the U.S. Treasury in connection with TARP. The Special Inspector General of the TARP has made a similar inquiry of Capital Purchase Program participants. Participation in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. The FDIC has also charged U.S. banks an additional emergency special assessment and increased other fees because market developments have significantly depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. In the future, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in order to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. 23 As a result, we may face increased regulation, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We cannot predict the effect that participating in these programs may have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future or what additional regulations and/or requirements we may become subject to as a result of our participation in these programs. The Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury impacts net income available to the Company’s common shareholders and its earnings per share. As long as shares of the Company’s Series A Preferred Stock issued under the Capital Purchase Program are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on the Company’s common stock unless all dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid in full. Additionally, the Company is not permitted to pay cash dividends in excess of $.13 per share per quarter on its common stock for three years from the Series A Preferred Stock issue date without the U.S. Treasury’s consent, unless the U.S. Treasury no longer owns the Series A Preferred Stock. The dividends declared on shares of the Company’s Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to common shareholders and the Company’s earnings per common share. Additionally, the Warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury m ay be dilutive to the Company’s earnings per share. There can be no assurance when the Series A Preferred Stock can be redeemed and the Warrant can be repurchased. Until such time as the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant are repurchased, the Company will remain subject to the terms and conditions of those instruments, which, among other things, require the Company to obtain regulatory approval to repurchase or redeem common stock or increase the dividends on the Company’s common stock over $.13 per share, except in limited circumstances. Further, the Company’s continued participation in the Capital Purchase Plan subjects it to increased regulatory and legislative oversight, including with respect to executive compensation. These new and any future oversight and legal requirements and implementing standards under the Capital Purchase Plan may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry as a whole, and particul arly on Capital Purchase Plan participants such as BancTrust. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s common shareholders. The Series A Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury is senior to the Company’s shares of common stock, and holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of the Company’s common stock. The restrictions on the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends to common shareholders are discussed above. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of the Company’s common stock unless the Company has paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances. Furthermore, the Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of the Compa ny’s common stock in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. We may not declare a dividend on your common stock. Historically, BancTrust has paid a cash dividend on your common stock; however, we have not paid a cash dividend on our common shares since the second quarter of 2009. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. In addition, the payment of dividends may be affected by Alabama law, FDIC and Federal Reserve Board regulations. Not declaring dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail below. At January 1, 2011, the Bank could not de clare a dividend without the approval of regulators. We are currently required to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta prior to declaring dividends on our common or preferred stock. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance the Company establishes for that purpose, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. There are inherent risks associated with the Company's lending activities. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance the Company establishes for that purpose. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses reflects management's best estimate of loan losses in the loan portfolio at the relevant statement of condition date. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of the specific credit risks, the Company's historical loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, composition and growth of the loan portfolio, and economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. As a result, the Company's allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses may adversely affect the Company's earnings. The Company believes its allowance for loan losses is adequate at December 31, 2010. 24 We operate in a highly competitive market which may have an impact upon our success. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. Recent mergers, divestitures, and de-novo branching in our markets, particularly in our Mobile market, have affected competition. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other financial institutions and from new residents to our markets. Whil e we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Many of our competitors are well-established larger financial institutions that have greater resources and lending limits than we do. Our success in maintaining or increasing market share depends in part on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to utilize new technologies and other means to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. Our competitors may introduce new products or services embodying new technologies which may cause our current technology or systems to be considered obsolete. Our future success in gaining market share may depend, in part, on our a bility to use technology competitively and to provide products and services that provide convenience to our customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will continue to be successful. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The likelihood and severity of such events may be increased by climate change. Our market areas in Alabama and Florida are susceptible to hurricanes. This coastal region experienced major hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. Some experts predict that the likelihood and severity of severe storms may increase as a result of climate change. The psychological impact of these storms, the high cost of and, in some cases, lack of property insurance, an over-supply of housing and investment properties along with changing property values and higher taxes over recent years slowed the economic growth in these areas. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by these hurricanes or damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the econ omies in our market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or other adverse weather events. If the value of real estate in our markets remain materially depressed, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become or remain under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, if real estate values remain depressed or decline further, we could be required to write down the values of our Other Real Estate Owned. The decline in local economic conditions has adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral. A continued or further decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Any decline in deposits or loan originations, any increase in borrower delinquencies or any decline in the value or condition of mortgaged properties could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of our borrowers, the Bank often secures loans with real estate. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. If real estate values in our markets remain depressed for an extended period or if we are required to liquidate collateral to satisfy a debt during this period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Additionally, a decline in real estate prices negatively affects the carrying value of our other real estate owned, which has increased significantly in recent years. Such decreases in real estate values could adversely affect our earnings and capital. 25 We may experience greater loan losses than anticipated. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon such assumptions and judgments as well as a percentage of the outstanding balances. We believe that the allowance for loan losses is adequate. If Management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. Failure to realize our deferred tax asset could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and capital. BancTrust records income taxes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require the use of the asset and liability method. During 2010 and 2009, our net deferred tax assets increased $11.0 million, primarily due to differences between our provision for loan losses, net loan charge-offs, and interest on non-performing loans for financial reporting compared to income tax return reporting. At December 31, 2010, the Company had net deferred tax assets of $10.8 million. Accounting principles require that we assess whether a valuation allowance should be established with respect to our deferred tax assets based on the consideration of all available evidence using a “more likely than not” standard. The Company's management considers both positive and negative evide nce, including the scheduling of reversing differences, tax planning strategies, recent and historical performance, expectations for future results of operations, and other factors in making this assessment. In making such judgments, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently speculative, because it requires the future occurrence of circumstances that cannot be predicted with certainty. We may not achieve sufficient future taxable income as the basis for the ultimate realization of our net deferred tax asset, and, therefore, we may have to establish a valuation allowance at some point in the future. If a valuation allowance is necessary, it would require us to incur a charge to operations that could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and capital position. We are subject to a risk of rapid and significant changes in market interest rates. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments. Changes in interest rates, inflation or the financial markets may affect the demand for our products or our ability to deliver products efficiently. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and are subject to significant risks tied to changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense, our largest recurring expenditure. In a period of rising or declining interest rates, our interest expense could increase or decrease in different amounts and at different rates than the interest that we earn on our assets. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income. Unexpected or significant movements in interest rates could cause our net interest income to decrease and could impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Changes in the level of i nterest rates may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or result in our lenders requiring additional collateral from us under our loan agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales were made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we would incur losses. We may be required to raise additional capital at a time when capital may not be readily available. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities, as well as good business practices, to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at the time and on our financial performance. The recent liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. 26 Our future capital needs could result in dilution of our shareholders’ equity. Our board of directors may determine from time to time there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would likely dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to raise future capital may depend on our ability to obtain shareholder approval for an increase in authorized shares of common stock. We currently have 77,837,848 common shares available for issuance in a common stock offering, consisting of 77,582,288 authorized but unissued shares not otherwise reserved and 255,560 treasury shares. In the event that our board of directors decides to raise capital through an offering of common stock, we may have to increase the number of authorized shares of the Company’s common stock so that there will be a sufficient number of shares available for sale to complete the offering. In order to increase the number of authorized shares, the Company will have to have a meeting of its shareholders to approve an amendment to the Company’s articles of incorporation increasing the number of authorized shares of common stock. At the meeting, the amendment will have to be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares entitled to vote. In the event that the proposed amendment is not approved, the Company will not be able to complete an offering of common stock for a number of shares in excess of the shares of common stock currently available for issuance. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans, interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators that require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance costs. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability are substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investments may suffer other than temporary impairment. Other than temporary impairment can occur when we determine that we do not have the intent and ability to hold a security with an amortized cost greater than its estimated fair market value until recovery. If the credit ratings of the issuers of the securities we hold deteriorate, we may not be able to recover our investment in these securities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 