Item 1A. Risk Factors Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by the Company, including its common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The Company must recognize and attempt to manage these risks as it implements its strategies to successfully compete with other companies in the financial services industry. Some of the more important risks common to the industry and the Company are: • liquidity risk, which is the risk that funds will not be available at a reasonable cost to meet operating and strategic needs; • operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events, such as natural disasters. • compliance risk, which is the risk of failure to comply with requirements imposed by regulators; • market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect the results of operations or financial condition; • reputation risk, which is the risk that negative perceptions of a business will adversely affect operations and financial performance; • credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will be unable to meet their contractual obligations, leading to loan losses and reduced interest income; and • industry risk, which is the risks related to our industry and the soundness of other financial institutions. 17 Although the Company generally is not significantly more susceptible to adverse effects from these or other common risk factors than other industry participants, there are certain aspects of the Company’s business model that may expose it to somewhat higher levels of risk. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, these risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s overall risk profile. Additional risks not presently known, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also adversely affect Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity Risks We may not be able to successfully complete a strategic merger or recapitalization transaction. A combination of asset quality problems and a lack of liquidity at the holding company level has lead Management to conclude that within the next year we either need to raise capital through an equity offering or effect a strategic merger. We recently attempted to structure a private offering of our equity securities to private equity firms and institutional investors, but we were unable to agree with our potential investors upon mutually acceptable terms for this transaction. As a result, we view a strategic merger as our best alternative to recapitalize the Company. However, we may not be able to find a strategic merger partner, or we may not be able to command a price that we deem to be in the best interest of our shareholders. In addition, we may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory or shareholder approvals for a strategic merger or other recapitalization transaction. If we fail to raise capital or effect a strategic merger it could have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We have a $20 million note payable maturing in April 2013 or at such earlier time as we complete a merger, consolidation, sale of substantially all of our assets or similar transaction; and, absent an infusion of capital at the holding company level, we will not be able to repay the note at maturity. BancTrust has outstanding a $20 million note which is secured by all of the stock of the Bank. The FDIC, as Receiver for Silverton Bank, N.A. is the holder of this note, which we refer to as the Silverton Note. We have available and will escrow funds sufficient to make the four remaining required interest payments on the note, but absent an infusion of cash at the holding company level through a strategic merger or other source, we do not have the ability to repay the Silverton Note. Therefore, BancTrust must complete a strategic merger, raise additional capital or issue debt in a sufficient amount to enable repayment, or renew or extend the Silverton Note prior to its maturity. Any renewal or extension of the note would require FDIC approval, and we can give no assurance that such approval will be granted. In addition, we are currently required to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta prior to incurring additional debt or modifying or refinancing the terms of existing debt. Management is currently seeking a strategic merger partner to enable repayment of the Silverton Note. Failure to timely repay, modify or replace this note would have a material adverse effect on BancTrust. We need to obtain funds from the Bank necessary to meet our obligations and to declare dividends on our preferred stock and common stock; however, the Bank is required to obtain regulatory approval prior to paying any dividends to us. BancTrust’s ability to pay its commitments as they come due is completely dependent upon dividends from the Bank. BancTrust’s most significant recurring commitments consist of interest and upcoming principal payments on debt obligations, dividends on the preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury and operating costs. The Bank is currently unable to pay dividends or interest payments without regulatory approval. The Bank requested and received permission to pay dividends of $2.1 million to BancTrust in 2011. The Bank requested and received permission to pay dividends to BancTrust in the first quarter of 2012 sufficient to make our next four quarterly interest payments on the $20 million Silverton Note and to pay the first 2012 quarterly interest payment on our 2003 series of trust preferred securities. The Bank does not intend to seek permission to pay any additional dividends in the near future. If the Bank requests permission to pay additional dividends, we can offer no assurance that the applicable regulatory agencies would grant such requests in full or in part. BancTrust’s inability to meet its commitments, particularly payment upon maturity of the Silverton Note, would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The preferred stock issued to the Treasury impacts net income available to the Company’s common shareholders and its earnings per share. As long as shares of our preferred stock issued under the Capital Purchase Program are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the preferred stock have been paid in full. The dividends declared and accrued on shares of our preferred stock reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, the Warrant issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to our earnings per share. 18 Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The Series A Preferred Stock held by the Treasury is senior to our shares of common stock, and holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of our common stock. The restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends to our common shareholders are discussed above. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of our common stock unless we have paid in full all accrued dividends on the preferred stock for all prior dividend periods, except in certain limited circumstances. Furthermore, the preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. We may not declare a dividend on your common stock. Historically, BancTrust paid a cash dividend on your common stock; however, we have not paid a cash dividend on our common shares since the second quarter of 2009. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. In addition, the payment of dividends may be affected by Alabama law, FDIC and Federal Reserve Board regulations. Not declaring dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, deferring interest on our trust preferred securities and not paying dividends on our preferred stock prevents us from paying a dividend on, or repurchasing, our common stock, as discussed in greater detail above. At January 1, 2012, the Bank, which is generally the source of payment of the Company’s dividends, could not declare a dividend without the approval of regulators, and the Bank’s recent earnings and high levels of nonperforming assets have severely limited its ability to obtain such approval. We have elected to defer the payment of dividends on our outstanding preferred stock and expect to continue to defer the payment of such dividends for the foreseeable future. We are required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta before we may declare dividends on our preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury. We are unable to declare dividends on our preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury without prior approval from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. We do not intend to seek Federal Reserve approval for the declaration of a dividend on our preferred stock, all of which is held by the U.S. Treasury, for the second quarter of 2012 and for the foreseeable future. If we request such approval, we can provide no assurance that the Federal Reserve will grant such request in full or in part, and we do not currently have the liquidity at the holding company level to make any dividend payments. BancTrust’s inability to pay dividends on its preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Until the preferred stock dividends are brought current, we may not pay dividends on our common stock. We have elected to defer the payment of interest on our outstanding trust preferred securities and expect to continue to defer the payment of interest for the foreseeable future. Commencing with the April 30, 2012 payment of interest on our 2006 series of trust preferred securities, we have elected to defer the payment of interest on both of our outstanding series of trust preferred securities, and we expect to continue to defer the payment of interest on these securities for the foreseeable future. Our deferral of interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters (through the first quarter of 2016) is expressly permitted under the applicable indentures for both series of trust preferred securities. Although we will defer the payment of interest, we will continue to accrue interest expense related to the trust preferred securities. The Company recognized interest expense of $909,000, $919,000 and $1.1 million on the trust preferred securities during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. To the extent applicable law permits interest on interest, the deferred interest payments also accrue interest at the rates specified in the corresponding indentures, compounded quarterly. All of the deferred interest and the compounded interest are due in full at the end of the applicable deferral period. If we fail to pay the deferred and compounded interest at the end of the deferral period, the trustee under the applicable indenture, or the holders of 25% of the outstanding principal amount of any issue of trust preferred securities, would have the right, after any applicable grace period, to declare an event of default. The occurrence of an event of default on these securities would entitle the trustees and holders of the trust preferred securities to exercise various remedies, including demanding immediate payment in full of the entire outstanding principal amount of the subordinated debentures. While we defer interest payments on our trust preferred securities, we are, subject to limited exceptions, prohibited from declaring dividends or distributions on, redeeming, purchasing, acquiring or making a liquidation payment with respect to any of our capital stock. Currently we have no cash available at the holding company level to resume the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures. Accordingly, our ability to resume the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures will depend on the Bank's ability to generate earnings and pay dividends to the Company. The Bank currently cannot pay dividends without regulatory approval and, if the Bank requests permission to pay additional dividends, we can offer no assurance that the applicable regulatory agencies would grant such requests in full or part. As a result, if we do not achieve sufficient profitability for the Bank so that our regulators would grant approval for the Bank to pay dividends, we will be unable to resume the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures. Even if the Bank is able to resume paying dividends, we can offer no assurance that the amount of dividends would be sufficient to pay the entire amount of interest due under the subordinated debentures at the end of the deferral period. 19 If the trading price of our common stock fails to comply with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we could face possible delisting. NASDAQ delisting could make the market for our stock more illiquid. Since October 2011, our common stock has traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market at less than $2.00 per share. If at any time our common stock does not maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days, as required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1), then NASDAQ may provide written notification regarding the delisting of our securities. At that time, we would have the right to request a hearing to appeal the NASDAQ determination. We cannot be sure that our price will comply with the requirements for continued listing of our common shares on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, or that any appeal of a decision to delist our common shares will be successful. If our common shares lose their listed status on The NASDAQ Global Select Market and we are not successful in obtaining a listing on another exchange, our common shares would likely trade in the over-the-counter market. If our shares were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our common shares could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common shares are delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common shares, further limiting the liquidity thereof. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for common shares. Our businesses have been and will likely continue to be adversely affected by recent and current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Recessionary conditions and a subsequent period of slow recovery in the broader economy could continue to adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in the Company’s market area. These conditions could, among other consequences, increase the credit risk inherent in the current loan portfolio, restrain new loan demand from creditworthy borrowers, prompt the Company to tighten its underwriting criteria, and reduce the liquidity in the Company’s customer base and the level of deposits that they maintain. These economic conditions could also delay the correction of the imbalance of supply and demand in certain real estate markets as discussed below. Legislative and regulatory actions taken in response to these conditions could impose additional restrictions and requirements on the Company and others in the financial industry. The impact on the Company’s financial results could include continued high levels of problem credits, increased provisions for credit losses and expenses associated with loan collection efforts, the possible further impairment of certain intangible or deferred tax assets, the need for the Company to replace core deposits with higher-cost sources of funds, and an inability to produce loan growth or overall growth in earning assets. Non-interest income from sources that are dependent on financial transactions and market valuations could also be reduced. Operational Risk If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. We and our independent registered public accounting firm, in connection with the audit of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, have identified deficiencies, that, when evaluated in combination, result in a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This material weakness relates to controls surrounding the valuation, documentation and review of impaired loans and other real estate owned at December 31, 2011. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have taken measures and plan to continue to take measures to remedy these deficiencies. However, because some of these remedial actions will take place on a quarterly basis, their successful implementation may need to be evaluated over several quarters before management is able to conclude that the material weakness has been remediated. In addition, the implementation of these measures may not fully address the control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to address any control deficiency could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares, may be materially and adversely affected. 20 We may not be able to effectively manage risk. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models we use to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur increased losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that arise in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The likelihood and severity of such events may be increased by climate change. Our market areas in Alabama and Florida are susceptible to hurricanes. This coastal region experienced major hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. Some experts predict that the likelihood and severity of severe storms may increase as a result of climate change. The psychological impact of these storms, the high cost of and, in some cases, lack of property insurance, an over-supply of housing and investment properties along with changing property values and higher taxes over recent years slowed the economic growth in these areas. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by these hurricanes or damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or other adverse weather events. We may experience interruptions or breaches in our information system security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of these information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of these information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the failure of certain third party vendors to perform. We rely upon certain third party vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to the risk that these vendors might not perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements. We maintain a system of policies and procedures designed to monitor vendor risks. While we believe these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Compliance Risk Failure to pay dividends on our preferred stock for six quarters could result in a change to our Board of Directors. If dividends are not paid on our preferred stock for an aggregate of six fiscal quarters, whether or not consecutive, the number of directors on the Company’s Board of Directors automatically increases by two, and the U.S. Treasury, as the sole preferred stock shareholder, may elect two new directors to the Board of Directors. The holders of our common stock will continue to elect the remaining members of our Board of Directors. The interests of the Treasury, as holder of the preferred stock may differ and at times even be adverse to the interests of the holders of our common stock. We cannot predict what actions any directors appointed by the Treasury may take or propose once they are seated on the Company’s Board of Directors. 21 The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and their implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (“EESA”). Under EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages and other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. One of the programs created by EESA is the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA was supplemented and amended by the Financial Stability Plan announced by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner on February 10, 2009 (the “FSP”) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”). The U.S. Treasury and federal banking regulators have implemented a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the Capital Purchase Program available through the TARP, in which BancTrust participated. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets. In addition, on July 21, 2010, sweeping financial regulatory reform legislation entitled the “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant impact on the regulatory structure of the financial markets and will impose additional costs on us. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, establishes a new Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions, alters the regulatory capital treatment of trust preferred securities and other hybrid capital securities and revises the FDIC’s assessment base for deposit insurance. Provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act may also restrict the flexibility of financial institutions to compensate their employees. In addition, provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act may require changes to the existing capital rules or the interpretation of such rules by institutions or regulators, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with capital requirements, capital ratios or other laws or regulations. For institutions such as BancTrust with assets less than $15 billion, currently outstanding trust preferred securities will continue to be included in Tier 1 capital indefinitely under the Dodd-Frank Act, but newly issued trust preferred securities would be excluded from Tier 1 capital. However, provisions in the legislation that revoke the Tier 1 capital treatment of trust preferred securities and otherwise require revisions to the capital requirements of the Company and the Bank could require us to seek other sources of capital in the future. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company, its customers or the financial industry as a whole. Provisions in the legislation that affect deposit insurance assessments, payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with deposits and place limitations on certain revenues those deposits may generate. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, as supplemented by the FSP, the ARRA, the Dodd-Frank Act and other programs will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the FSP, the Dodd-Frank Act and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA, ARRA, the FSP and the Dodd-Frank Act are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. We are unable to predict the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. The programs established or to be established under the EESA, TARP and the Dodd-Frank Act may have adverse effects upon us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program subjects us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDIA, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. In addition, our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program subjects us to additional legislation and rulemaking beyond the regime governing financial institutions generally. Our compliance with applicable laws and regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, investments, loans, executive compensation, interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators that require us to maintain adequate capital to support our assets. 22 The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry and to TARP Capital Purchase Program participants could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably and limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. We cannot predict the extent to which the government and governmental organizations may change any of these laws or controls. We also cannot predict how such changes would adversely affect our business and prospects. Market Risk If the value of real estate in our markets remains materially depressed, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become or remain under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, if real estate values remain depressed or decline further, we could be required to further write down the values of our other real estate owned. The decline in local economic conditions has adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral. A continued or further decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Any decline in deposits or loan originations, any increase in borrower delinquencies or any decline in the value or condition of mortgaged properties could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have continued to increase our provision for loan and lease losses, and we have written down the value of our other real estate owned to reflect current market conditions. However, we continuously monitor borrower delinquencies, value and condition of mortgaged properties and real estate values in our markets; and, if local economic conditions continue to decline, additional significant provisions and write downs may be necessary. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of our borrowers, the Bank often secures loans with real estate. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. If real estate values in our markets continue to remain depressed, or if we are required to liquidate collateral to collect on loans during this period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Additionally, a decline in real estate prices negatively affects the carrying value of our other real estate owned, which has increased significantly in recent years. Such decreases in real estate values have and could continue to adversely affect our earnings and capital. We are subject to a risk of rapid and significant changes in market interest rates. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments. Changes in interest rates, inflation or the financial markets may affect the demand for our products or our ability to deliver products efficiently. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and are subject to significant risks tied to changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, the rate of inflation, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products, monetary policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, and the stability of domestic and foreign markets. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense, our largest recurring expenditure. In a period of rising or declining interest rates, our interest expense could increase or decrease in different amounts and at different rates than the interest that we earn on our assets. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income. Unexpected or significant movements in interest rates could cause our net interest income to decrease and could impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Changes in the level of interest rates may negatively affect our ability to attract deposits, originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or result in our lenders requiring additional collateral from us under our loan agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, to maintain our liquidity. If those sales were made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we would incur losses. Our investments may suffer further other than temporary impairment. Other than temporary impairment can occur when we determine that we do not have the intent and ability to hold a security with an amortized cost greater than its estimated fair market value until recovery. One of the securities we hold has suffered other than temporary impairment. If the credit ratings of the issuers of the securities we hold deteriorate further, we may not be able to recover our investment in these securities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. 23 Reputational Risk If our reputation as a fiduciary and financial services provider is negatively affected, our business will suffer. Our relationship with many of our clients is predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a financial services provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics and provides superior customer services in a responsive and personalized manner. Adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet client expectations and other issues with respect to our business could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain clients or our sources of funding. In addition, adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise as a result of changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate. If any of these developments has a material adverse effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. We may be subject to negative publicity that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and ability to attract financing. We have recently announced the end of our efforts to raise capital as an independent institution and the intent of the Company to seek a recapitalization through a strategic merger, adjustments to preliminary unaudited financial results previously released for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011 and our intention to suspend payments of dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our trust preferred securities. As we previously announced, we had an in-depth review of asset quality, other real estate owned carrying values, and the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses conducted and, after management’s careful analysis of this review, we decided to increase our provision for loan losses by an additional $13.25 million, and write down the net carrying value of other real estate owned by an additional $27.00 million, over our previously announced results. In addition, we have recently been the subject of news reports discussing our current financial situation, and we may continue to be subject to negative publicity as the press and others speculate about our ability to raise capital through a strategic merger or other means. For example, shareholders may elect to sell their stock in large volumes, further reducing our stock price. In addition, long-term service providers may be reluctant to commit to long-term projects with us. Even if we are able to improve our current financial situation, we may continue to be the object of negative publicity and speculation about our future. We are dependent upon the services of our management team, and the limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA and the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect BancTrust’s ability to attract key employees or retain its highest performing employees. Our future success and profitability are substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. In addition, our announced intention to seek a strategic merger may cause key personnel to depart from the Company. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the case of a company such as BancTrust that sold preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, the ARRA contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the five executives named in a company’s proxy statement and the next twenty highest paid employees. The Dodd-Frank Act expanded some of those restrictions to apply to all public companies, regardless of whether they participated in the Capital Purchase Program. These restrictions may prevent BancTrust from being able to create a compensation structure that is attractive to key employees and its highest performing employees. If this were to occur, the Company’s business and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Credit Risk Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance the Company establishes for that purpose, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. There are inherent risks associated with the Company's lending activities. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance the Company establishes for that purpose. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for losses inherent in its loan and lease portfolio. The allowance reflects management's best estimate of losses in the loan and lease portfolio at the relevant statement of condition date. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of the specific credit risks, the Company's historical loan and lease loss experience, current loan and lease portfolio quality, composition and growth of the loan and lease portfolio, and economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan and lease portfolio. The determination of an appropriate level of loan and lease loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous factors and assumptions. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company's allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for losses or the recognition of further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. As a result, the Company's allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and there is always a chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. We might underestimate the loan and lease losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio and have loan and lease losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. Future provisions for loan and lease losses may adversely affect the Company's earnings. The Company believes its allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate at December 31, 2011. 24 We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of commercial construction, land and land development loans, which may pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. At December 31, 2011, we had a balance of $250.859 million in commercial construction, land and land development loans, representing 19.64% of our total loan portfolio. These commercial construction, land and land development loans have certain risks that are not present in other types of loans. Commercial construction, land and land development loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the collateral proves to be overstated or market values decline, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan. If we are forced to foreclose on the collateral due to a default, we face even more uncertainty than we would in foreclosing on an occupied, vertical project as to whether or not we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance and accrued interest on the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while we attempt to dispose of it. The adverse effects of the foregoing matters upon our commercial construction, land and land development portfolio could necessitate a further increase in non-performing loans related to this portfolio and these non-performing loans may result in a material level of charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2011, our net charge-offs of commercial real estate loans aggregated $33.5 million. At December 31, 2011, non-accrual commercial construction, land and land development loans totaled $59.382 million. In addition, we reported a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting related to proper valuation, documentation and review of impaired loans and other real estate owned. If we cannot properly remediate this material weakness it may have an adverse impact on the accuracy of our reported financial results. Because of the geographic concentration of our assets, our business is highly susceptible to local economic conditions. Our business is primarily concentrated in selected markets in Alabama and Florida. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial condition and results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in one or more of the following: an increase in loan delinquencies; an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. Industry Risk The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions is closely tied to the commercial soundness of other financial institutions as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. 25 The downgrade of the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, any related rating agency action in the future, the ongoing debt crisis in Europe and the downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings for several European nations could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. On November 21, 2011, a Congressional committee that was formed to achieve $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction measures announced that it had failed to achieve its stated purpose by the deadline imposed by Congress’ August 2011 agreement to raise the U.S. government’s debt ceiling. Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, which had downgraded the U.S. government’s AAA sovereign credit rating to AA+ with a negative outlook in August 2011, affirmed its AA+ rating following the announcement. Moody’s Investors Services, which changed its U.S. government rating outlook to negative on August 2, 2011, also reaffirmed its rating following the Congressional committee’s announcement. On November 22, 2011, Fitch Ratings stated that the failure of the committee to reach an agreement would likely cause it to change its outlook on U.S. government debt to negative. Further, on November 28, 2011, Fitch stated that a downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit rating would occur without a credible plan in place by 2013 to reduce the U.S. government deficit. The impact of any additional downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating by any of these rating agencies, as well as the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations, is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, certain European nations continue to experience varying degrees of financial stress. Despite various assistance packages, worries about European financial institutions and sovereign finances persist. On January 13, 2012, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the credit ratings of France, Italy and seven other European nations in part as a result of the failure of leaders to address systemic stresses in the Eurozone. In addition, Greece has sought a bailout twice from the European Union and has restructured its sovereign debt and has been forced to undertake significant austerity measures as part of its bailout and debt restructuring packages. Market concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of European banks and insurers to Greece and these other European Union nations and each other have resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some European financial institutions. Risks related to the European economic crisis have had, and are likely to continue to have, a negative impact on global economic activity and the financial markets. As these conditions persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive market which may have an impact upon our success. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. Recent mergers, divestitures, and de-novo branching in our markets, particularly in our Mobile market, have affected competition. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other financial institutions and from new residents to our markets. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Many of our competitors are well-established larger financial institutions that have greater resources and lending limits than we do. Our success in maintaining or increasing market share depends in part on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to utilize new technologies and other means to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. Our competitors may introduce new products or services embodying new technologies which may cause our current technology or systems to be considered obsolete. Our future success in gaining market share may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology competitively and to provide products and services that provide convenience to our customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will continue to be successful. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 