D. Risk factors Consolidated Mercantile Incorporated's business is subject to a number of broad risks and uncertainties, including the following: 1. Distinctive Designs Furniture Inc. ("Distinctive"), the Company’s furniture manufacturing subsidiary, has sustained material losses in recent years and its working capital position has deteriorated. Distinctive continues to implement a number of adjustments including an increase in its import programs to supplement and/or replace its domestic manufacturing in order to improve gross margin and to enhance its ability to be more competitive in the industry. Distinctive’s 2006 consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles applicable to a going concern with the assumption that Distinctive will be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. In order to generate positive cash flows from operations, Distinctive is dependent upon the support of its new lender and a return to profitability which is sensitive to the volume and price of furniture sold, as well as freight and labour costs. If these assumptions are not met, there can be no assurance that Distinctive will realize the necessary improvement in profitability in order to meet its ongoing requirements. If the going concern assumption is not appropriate for Distinctive, adjustments may be necessary to the carrying value of the Company’s assets related thereto. 2. Canadian Securities regulations require CEOs and CFOs to certify that they have designed internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance over the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of external financial statements in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles. These certifications cover the Company and its subsidiaries. Documenting these controls is a significant undertaking for the Company and provides the basis for managements’ certifications. Due to the difficult business environment in the North American furniture industry, the resulting ongoing losses at Distinctive, management’s focus on Distinctive’s profit improvement program and the resignation by Distinctive’s Controller, Distinctive did not have the necessary resources to document its internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, the Company’s Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, have concluded that as of December 31, 2006 a weakness may exist in the Company’s design of internal control over financial reporting caused by the absence of documentation of the performance of critical control procedures with respect to Distinctive. This weakness leads to uncertainty as to whether the control procedures at Distinctive are being carried out, such that material misstatements in the financial statements of Distinctive, and accordingly the Company, may fail to be prevented or detected and is accordingly also considered a potential weakness in the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. As a result of this potential weakness, information required to be disclosed in the Company’s annual filings and interim filings and other reports filed or submitted under the securities laws of Canada and the United States may not be recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by those laws and material information may not be accumulated and communicated to Management of the Company, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow for accurate disclosure to be made on a timely basis. Distinctive recently hired a new Controller and the Company continues to monitor Distinctive’s situation and intends to rectify this as soon as this becomes possible. 3. The Company retains approximately 23% equity interest in Polyair Inter Pack Inc. ("Polyair"), previously the Company's packaging and specialty pool cover subsidiary. In March 2007, following the sale of its discontinued businesses, Polyair agreed with its lenders to reduce its operating line facility. Polyair believes that this lower facility amount is adequate for its needs. Concurrently with the reduction of the facility amount, Polyair and its lenders also agreed to change the maturity of the loan agreement from October 2008 to June 30, 2007. The current loan agreement provides for certain financial covenants to be tested and met on a quarterly basis. Polyair was in compliance with all of these covenants as at the end of its fiscal 2007 second quarter. Polyair is in discussions with its lenders about the composition of the bank syndicate that will provide loan facilities after June 30, 2007 and the terms of these loans including financial covenants. While Polyair’s management believes these discussions will result in a revised lending facility, there is no certainty that Polyair will reach a satisfactory agreement with its lenders. Under the terms of Polyair’s lending agreements, upon maturity of the loan agreement, the lenders can demand repayment of the bank indebtedness, which would trigger cross defaults on the term loans thereby allowing the term loan lenders to also demand repayment of these loans, as well as take possession of the collateral security. Polyair’s Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting principles applicable to a going concern, which assumes that Polyair will be able to meet its financial covenant tests and generate positive cash flows from operations. In order for this to be realized, Polyair will need to reach agreement with its lenders on revised terms of its loan agreement and the extension prior to June 30, 2007. It will also dependent upon the continued support of Polyair’s lenders and creditors and increased profitability from its packaging business, which is sensitive to the volume and price of packaging products sold, freight costs, and the cost of resin. If these assumptions are not met, Polyair may not be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of operations. 4. The Company’s short-term investments return is contingent upon the performance of the various professional managers and the public financial markets. 5. Foreign Exchange. The Company's operating results are reported in Canadian dollars. During 2006, approximately 85% (2005 – 85%) of Polyair’s and 41% (2005 – 25%) of Distinctive’s sales revenues were generated primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. While Polyair is accounted for using the equity method and revenues and expenses from this investment are not recorded, the equity results therefrom still have a direct impact on the results of the Company. The average exchange rate for income statement translation of U.S. dollar denominated amounts was 1.14 for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 1.22 for the comparable 2005 period. Exchange rate fluctuations are beyond the control of the Company and there can be no assurance that the Canadian Dollar will not appreciate against the U.S. Dollar. Accordingly, any increase in the value of the Canadian Dollar versus the U.S. Dollar will reduce the Company’s sales revenue as expressed in Canadian dollars and may also impact the results of Polyair. As a result of the strengthened Canadian dollar, the furniture industry is exposed to additional competition from imported products. Offshore manufacturers have made inroads into the Canadian upholstery market and Distinctive is under increased pressure to adjust selling prices and to reduce costs to meet this import competition. Polyair and Distinctive purchase goods and services in both Canadian and U.S. dollars. To reduce their exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, the Company, Polyair, and Distinctive may hedge their currency risk based on management's view of currency trends, estimated currency requirements and consultation with the Company's financial advisors. 6. Raw Materials. Distinctive and Polyair use various commodity raw materials and energy products in conjunction with their manufacturing processes. Generally, they acquire such components at market prices and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. As a result, they are exposed to market risk related to changes in commodity prices related to these components. 7. Environmental Regulation. Polyair and Distinctive are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations in Canada and the United States pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposition of wastes and otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Although management believes that all facilities are in compliance with regulatory standards, there can be no assurance that changes in environmental laws and regulations, or their application, will not require further expenditures by either Polyair or Distinctive. 8. Credit Risk. Distinctive and Polyair face a certain degree of credit risk arising from the sales of products on credit terms to customers. Distinctive and Polyair seek to maintain diversity in their customers so that they are not exposed in a material manner to credit risk from any one customer. Distinctive and Polyair attempt to mitigate credit risk through the establishment of credit limits and terms of sales with its customers. Credit limits are reviewed and monitored regularly. Three separate customers at Distinctive accounted for approximately 57% (2005 - 44%) of its revenues. Loss of any of these customers could result in unsold inventory and decreased capacity utilization. 9. Legal Claims. Distinctive has been named as a defendant in legal claims from time to time in the normal course of business. Management believes that Distinctive will prevail and that exposure is minimal. Polyair has been named from time to time as a defendant in claims arising from pool-related injuries. In each case, which has been resolved, Polyair has either prevailed (on the merits or by dismissal) or secured settlement well within insurance coverage limits. Polyair believes its products are safe and contain proper use warnings, but avoidance of litigation cannot be assured. The risk factors discussed above highlight the more important factors that could significantly affect the Company’s operations and profitability. They do not represent an exhaustive list of all potential issues that could affect the financial results of the Company. ITEM 