D. Risk factors The Company is subject to a number of broad risks and uncertainties including general economic conditions. In addition to these broad business risks, the Company has specific risks that it faces, the most significant of which are detailed below. Disclosure Controls Risk. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and assessed the design of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 and have concluded that as of December 31, 2008 a weakness existed in the design of internal control over financial reporting relating to the interpretation and application of U.S. GAAP. This weakness leads to uncertainty as to whether the control procedures are being carried out, such that material misstatements in the Form 20-F financial statements of the Company may fail to be prevented or detected. This weakness should also be considered a weakness in the Control’s disclosure controls and procedures. Management has and will continue to dedicate resources to correct the accounting error as it relates to the interpretation and application of U.S. GAAP and to ensure that we take proper steps to improve our internal controls and remedy our material weakness in our U.S. GAAP financial reporting and disclosure controls. Credit Risk. Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions of reputable credit and therefore bear minimal credit risk. Currency Risk. Currency risk is the risk that a variation in exchange rates between the Canadian dollar and foreign currencies will affect the Company’s operating and financial results. The Company currently holds minimal funds denominated in United States dollars. The value of this currency fluctuates due to changes in the exchange rate, which is beyond the control of the Company. In the event that the Canadian dollar was to appreciate in value against the United States dollar this would have a nominal negative financial impact on the Company and therefore the currency risk is minimal. Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes in market rates. The Company has not used derivative financial instruments to alter the exposure to interest rate risk. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve capital while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. Some of the securities that we invest in may have market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment could decline. We currently maintain an investment portfolio consisting of short-term deposits, Canadian bond obligations and equity investments. Due to the relative short term nature of these investments, we believe that we have no material exposure to interest rate risk arising from our investments. Other Price Risk. Other price risk is the risk that the market value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices (other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk). The Company moderates this risk through a careful selection and diversification of securities and other financial instruments within the limits of the Company’s objectives and strategy. The risks and uncertainties discussed above highlight the more important factors that could significantly affect the Company’s operations and profitability. They do not represent an exhaustive list of all potential issues that could affect the financial results of the Company.. ITEM 