D. Risk factors Consolidated Mercantile Incorporated's business is subject to a number of broad risks and uncertainties, including the following: 1. The Company’s return on its short-term investments is contingent upon the performance of the various professional managers and the public financial markets. 2. The Company currently holds and invests funds denominated in United States dollars. The value of this currency fluctuates due to changes in the exchange rate which is beyond the control of the Company. In the event that the Canadian dollar was to appreciate in value against the United States dollar this could have a negative financial impact on the Company. The Company, in the normal course of business, enters into forward exchange contracts, swaps and options to manage foreign currency exposures. 3. Canadian Securities regulations, Multilateral Instrument 52-109 of the Canadian Securities Administrators, Certification of Disclosure in Issuers’ Annual and Interim Filings (“MI 52-109”), require CEOs and CFOs to certify annually that they have designed internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance over the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of external financial statements in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles. These certifications cover the Company and its subsidiaries which, until December 28, 2007, included Distinctive Designs Furniture Inc. (“Distinctive”), the Company’s furniture manufacturing subsidiary. Documenting these controls is a significant undertaking for the Company and provides the basis for managements’ certifications. Due to the difficult business environment in the North American furniture industry, the resulting ongoing losses at Distinctive and management’s focus on the profit improvement program, Distinctive has not had the necessary resources to document its internal control over financial reporting and therefore a significant portion of the basis for management’s certifications is not available. The Company has completed the other elements of the documentation of the design of internal controls over financial reporting relating to both the Company and its other subsidiary. The CEO and CFO have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and assessed the design of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 pursuant to the requirements of MI 52-109 and have concluded that as of December 31, 2007 a weakness existed in the design of internal control over financial reporting caused by the absence of documentation of the performance of critical control procedures with respect to Distinctive, the Company’s former consolidated subsidiary. This weakness leads to uncertainty as to whether the control procedures at Distinctive have been carried out, such that material misstatements in the financial statements of Distinctive, and accordingly the Company, may have failed to have been prevented or detected. This weakness should also be considered a weakness in the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures for the period under review. As a result of this weakness, information required to be disclosed in the Company’s 2007 annual filings (as such terms are defined under MI 52-109) and other reports filed or submitted under Canadian securities laws may not have been recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by those laws and material information may not have been accumulated and communicated to management of the Company, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow for accurate disclosure to be made on a timely basis. Effective December 28, 2007 the Company disposed of its investment interest in Distinctive. Accordingly, the Company does not expect this weakness to exist in the future. The risk factors discussed above highlight the more important factors that could significantly affect the Company’s operations and profitability. They do not represent an exhaustive list of all potential issues that could affect the financial results of the Company. ITEM 