Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We have certain environmental remediation liabilities, and those liabilities may increase. We own certain real estate at the Historic Port Gamble townsite on the Kitsap Peninsula in western Washington. We are party to an agreement with P&T, pursuant to which we and P&T allocated responsibility for cleanup costs. Under Washington law, both Pope Resources and P&T are “potentially liable persons” based on ownership and/or operation of the site. These laws provide for joint and several liability among parties owning or operating property on which contamination occurs, meaning that cleanup costs can be assessed against any or all such parties. Our agreement with P&T was intended to apportion responsibility based on this principle, with P&T bearing the larger share of responsibility based upon their role in operating the site and upon their relatively lengthy ownership. We maintain on our balance sheet an accrual that represents our estimated share of the remediation costs, and we adjust that accrual periodically based on such factors as test results, cleanup cost estimates, and related factors. We increase the recorded liability if our current estimates of those costs exceed the previously established accrual, and we recognize an expense in the period reflecting the adjustment. If our estimates are inaccurate, or if new or previously unknown facts are discovered that increase our share of these costs, we may experience adverse impacts upon our results of operations and financial condition. In that vein, P&T’s financial condition has declined markedly in recent years, with P&T first disclosing questions about its ability to continue as a going concern in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Since that time we have closely monitored P&T’s financial disclosures, including its repeated attempts to restructure its credit arrangements throughout the second and third quarters of 2007 and culminating in a late October 2007 bankruptcy filing in Canada, followed in November 2007 by a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing in the United States. Since then, P&T has undertaken to sell substantially all of its assets. These actions raised substantial doubt in management’s views as to whether P&T can meet all or any portion of its obligations under our settlement and remediation agreement. Because of the joint and several liability that attends to the cleanup obligation, management has taken a number of steps to address our own exposure. As such, our results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2007 reflect a $1.9 million charge to earnings to increase our environmental remediation liability for Port Gamble. Second, because we have increased our estimate of the potential costs on several occasions in the past, we have revised our methodology for assessing this liability, shifting to a “Monte Carlo simulation” analysis which we hope will improve our ability to predict the actual liability for the remaining cleanup. Third, we are in active discussions with the Washington State Department of Ecology to promote protection of the environment, optimize and appropriately allocate the remaining cleanup liabilities, and maximize our control over the remediation process. Finally, we are monitoring the P&T bankruptcy action as an unsecured creditor in an effort to maximize any potential recovery from P&T’s remaining assets, although we have substantial doubt as to whether we will recoup any material portion of those assets because substantially all of P&T’s assets are subject to the security interests of its lenders. 14 Management continues to monitor closely both the Port Gamble cleanup process and the P&T bankruptcy proceeding; however, in light of current circumstances our addition of $1.9 million to the remediation liability reflects what management believes to be the best estimate of the remaining cleanup cost based upon an estimation method that represents the most likely outcome. We compete with a number of larger competitors that may be better able than we to absorb the effects of price fluctuations, may be able to expend greater resources on production, may have greater access to capital, and may operate more efficiently than we can. We compete against much larger companies in each of our business segments. We compete with these companies for management and line personnel, as well as for purchases of relatively scarce capital assets such as land and standing timber and for sales of our products. These larger competitors may have access to larger amounts of capital and significantly greater economies of scale, and they may be better able to absorb the risks of our line of business. Moreover, the timber industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years and, as that consolidation occurs, our relative market share decreases and the relative financial capacity of our competitors’ increases. While management believes the Partnership is at a competitive advantage over some of these companies because of our lack of vertical integration into forest products manufacturing, our advantageous tax structure, and management’s attempts to diversify our asset base, we cannot assure readers that competition will not have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. Consolidation of sawmills in our geographic operating area may reduce competition among our customers, which could adversely affect our log prices. We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience, consolidation of sawmills in the Pacific Northwest. Because a portion of our cost of sales in our fee timber segment consists of transportation costs for delivery of logs to domestic sawmills, it becomes increasingly expensive to transport logs over longer distances for sales in domestic markets. As a result, a reduction in the number of sawmills, or in the number of sawmill operators, may reduce competition for our logs, may increase our transportation costs, or both. These consolidations thus may have a material adverse impact upon our Fee Timber revenue or income and, as that segment has traditionally represented our largest business unit, upon our results of operation and financial condition as a whole. We are sensitive to demand and price issues relating to our sales of logs in both domestic and foreign markets. We generate Fee Timber revenue primarily by selling softwood logs to domestic mills and to third-party intermediaries who resell them to the export market. The domestic market for logs in the Puget Sound region of Washington State has been impacted by imported lumber from Canada and decreased demand for lumber as engineered wood products have gained market acceptance in the United States. These factors have had the effect of concentrating mill ownership with larger, more efficient, mill operators and decreasing the number of mills operating in the Puget Sound region. This characteristic may result in a decrease in local demand for logs, which in turn may decrease our profitability. In addition, the settlement of a dispute under the North American Free Trade Agreement, alleging unfair trade practices related to sales of Canadian softwoods into the United States, may result in an increase in the volume of timber available in domestic log markets, which could adversely impact log prices and, derivatively, our fee timber revenues. Over the past decade, we have seen log prices erode in the Japanese market as competing logs and lumber from regions outside of the U.S. and engineered wood products have gradually gained market acceptance. These export markets for Pacific Northwest logs are significantly affected by fluctuations in U.S. and Japanese economies, as well as by the foreign currency exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, and ocean transportation costs. We are subject to statutory and regulatory risks that currently limit, and may increasingly limit, our ability to generate Fee Timber and Real Estate income. Our ability to grow and harvest timber can be significantly impacted by legislation, regulations or court rulings that restrict or stop forest practices. For example recent amendments to federal wildlife habitat preservation laws, intended to afford additional protections to the threatened northern spotted owl, may make it more difficult for us to harvest timber and may reduce the amount of harvestable timber on our properties. These and other restrictions on logging, planting, road building, fertilizing, managing competing vegetation and other activities can significantly increase the cost or reduce available inventory thereby reducing income. These regulations are likely to have a similar effect on our Timberland Management & Consulting operations. Moreover, the value of our real estate investments, and our income from real estate operations, are sensitive to changes in the economic and regulatory environment, as well as various land-use regulations and development risks, including the ability to obtain the necessary permits and zoning variances that would allow us to maximize the revenue from our real estate investments. Our real estate investments are long-term in nature, which raises the risk that unforeseen changes in the economy or laws surrounding development activities may have an adverse affect on our investments. Moreover, these investments often are highly illiquid and thus may not generate cash flow if and when needed to support our other operations. 15 We are controlled by our managing general partner. As a limited partnership, substantially all of our day-to-day affairs are controlled by our managing general partner, Pope MGP, Inc. Among other things, the board of directors of Pope MGP, Inc. serves as our board of directors, and by virtue of a stockholder agreement, the shareholders of Pope MGP, Inc., Emily T. Andrews and Peter T. Pope, each have the ability to designate one of our directors and to veto the selection of each of our other directors, other than for our chief executive officer, who serves as a director by virtue of his executive position. Unitholders may remove the managing general partner only in limited circumstances, including, among other things, a vote of the holders of a two-thirds majority of the “qualified units,” which means the units that have been owned by their respective holders for at least five years prior to such vote. By virtue of the terms of our agreement of limited partnership, as amended, or “partnership agreement”, our managing general partner directly, and Mrs. Andrews and Mr. Pope indirectly, have the ability to prevent or impede transactions that would result in a change of control of the Partnership; to prevent or, upon the approval of limited partners holding a majority of the units, to cause, the sale of the assets of the Partnership; and to cause the Partnership to take or refrain from taking certain other actions that you might otherwise perceive to be in the Partnership’s best interest. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to pay to Pope MGP, Inc., an annual management fee of $150,000, and to reimburse Pope MGP, Inc., for certain expenses incurred in managing our business. The managing general partner also receives a special allocation of profits from our investor portfolio management business, which allocations earned in 2007 and 2006 were $0 and $77,000, respectively. Reimbursements for expenses totaled $21,000 in 2007 and $6,000 in 2006. We benefit from certain tax treatment accorded to master limited partnerships, and if that status changes the holders of our units may realize less advantageous tax consequences. The Partnership is a Master Limited Partnership (MLP) and is therefore not generally subject to U.S. federal income taxes. If that changed due to a change in tax law (or interpretation of current tax law) such that the Partnership became subject to income taxes, operating results would be adversely affected. We also have two taxable subsidiaries. The estimation of income tax expense and preparation of income tax returns requires complex calculations and judgments. We believe the estimates and calculations used in this process are proper and reasonable but if a Federal or state taxing authority disagreed with the positions we have taken, a material change in provision for income taxes, net income, or cash flows could result. 16 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION COMMENTS None Item 