D. Risk factors The Company is subject to a number of broad risks and uncertainties including general economic conditions. In addition to these broad business risks, the Company has specific risks that it faces, the most significant of which are detailed below. Uncertain Return On Short-Term Investments Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. The Company’s return on its short-term investments will be contingent upon the performance of its various professional investment managers and the public financial markets. Difficult market and economic conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. Our revenues and profitability are likely to decline during periods of poor performance of our various professional investment managers and the public financial markets. The financial markets are by their nature risky and volatile and are directly affected by many factors that are beyond our control. Our operations may suffer to the extent that ongoing market volatility of the recent past was to persist which could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. Cash Deposits Held At Banks May Exceed The Amounts Of Insurance Provided On Such Deposits And Any Loss Arising There From Could Have A Material Adverse Affect On Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. If we were to suffer a loss as a result of a failure of one of these Banks and the insurance provided thereon was insufficient to cover the amount of the deposit our operations may suffer. This could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. Adverse Currency Fluctuations on Cash Deposits Held In Foreign Denominated Currencies Could Have A Material Adverse Affect On Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. Currency risk is the risk that a negative variation in exchange rates between the Canadian Dollar and foreign currencies will affect the Company’s operating and financial results. If the Company holds funds denominated in a foreign currency and the value of this currency experiences a negative fluctuation due to a change in exchange rates this could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Declines In Invested Amounts As A Result Of Changes In Prevailing Interest Rates Could Have A Material Adverse Affect On Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates. Some of the cash, cash equivalents and securities that the Company may invest in are subject to interest rate risk. This means that an adverse change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate and the amount of the investment to decline. Such a decline could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third Party Valuation Risk Could Have A Material Adverse Affect On Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations The valuations of private investment Limited Partnerships rely on third party financial inputs of the underlying securities. If the financial inputs of the underlying securities were directly verifiable, there is a risk that the reported fair values may differ. The Company Has No Experience Operating As An Investment Company And, If Required To Register As An Investment Company Under The United States Investment Company Act Of 1940, As Amended (The "Company Act"), We Would Find This Process Both Costly and Challenging. With the successful completion of the amalgamation with Genterra Inc. (see ITEM 4A - History and Development of the Company) , we do not believe that we will be an investment company under the Company Act, by virtue of Rule 3A-1. Rule 3A-1 provides that an issuer will not be considered an investment company if no more than 45% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of cash items and government securities) consists of, and no more than 45% of its net income after taxes is derived from, certain securities. In order to continue to meet the requirements of Rule 3A-1, we will be required to analyze our assets and financial statements on a continuous basis in order to identify any potential problems including the need to reallocate working capital assets into cash and cash items. This analysis and reallocation will obviously increase our cost of operations, and may from time to time require the retention of legal and accounting experts in order to address any problems identified by such analysis. Should we not be able to continue to qualify for the applicable exclusion, the Company may be required to register as an investment company under the Company Act. In such an event, substantial work on our part will be required to implement appropriate reporting and compliance processes as required by the Company Act. The significant changes to our operations would include retaining a registered investment adviser, registered under the United States Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, to manage the Company's portfolio and adopting a series of compliance documents to ensure compliance. Such modifications could result in a complete change in the Company's operations, and, further, may require a new investment decision to be made by the Company's shareholders. In order to do so, the Company may be required to file appropriate documentation with the Securities and Exchange Commission and there is no guarantee that all shareholders would approve of the change. Finally, the failure to comply properly with SEC laws, rules and regulations could result in significant fines and other penalties, resulting in a material negative impact on the Company. We have no experience operating as an investment company and to do so is costly and challenging, and could materially hinder our ability to operate as a public company. As a result of the amalgamation with Genterra Inc. ("Genterra"), the following additional risks are applicable to the amalgamated entity Genterra Capital Inc. ("GCI"). The Anticipated Benefits Of The Amalgamation Are Contingent On The Successful Integration Of The Operations Of Genterra And CMI. The success of the amalgamation will depend, in part, on the ability of GCI to realize the anticipated synergies and growth opportunities from integrating Genterra’s and CMI's businesses. GCI’s success in realizing these benefits, beyond the savings in public company and administration costs to be realized from eliminating one public company, and the timing of this realization depends upon the successful integration of the operations of Genterra and CMI. We cannot assure you that the amalgamation will result in the realization of the full benefits we anticipate. Our Need To Maintain Liquidity And Financial Condition Could Be Adversely Affected By Market And Economic Conditions. A liquidity risk arises from GCI’s management of working capital and principal repayments on its debt obligations to avoid difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they become due. Liquidity is essential to our business and may be impaired by circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as general market disruption or an operational problem which in turn could affect our financial condition and ability to satisfy debt service obligations. Real Property Investment Tend to be Relatively Illiquid and Could Affect Our Need to Maintain Liquidity and Financial Condition Which May Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. All real property investments are subject to elements of risk. Such risks include general economic conditions, local real estate market conditions, demand for real property generally and in the local area, competition for other available premises and various other risk factors. Real property investments tend to be relatively illiquid, with the degree of liquidity generally fluctuating in relation to demand for and the perceived desirability of such investments. Such illiquidity may tend to limit GCI’s ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changing economic or investment conditions. If a property was to incur a vacancy either by the continued default of a tenant under its lease or the expiration of a lease, and if the vacancy was to continue for a long period of time and GCI was required to liquidate one or all of its real property investments, the resale of the property or properties could be diminished and the proceeds to GCI might be significantly less than the aggregate value of its properties on a going concern basis. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Have Large Single Purpose Tenants And Are Dependent On Them For A Large Portion Of Our Rental Revenue, So Our Success Is Dependent On Their Financial Stability And Continuation Of Their Leases. The need to renew and release upon lease expiration is no different for GCI than it is for any other real estate portfolio. Properties that are single tenant occupied, in particular the properties located at Dobbie Drive, Cambridge, Ontario, and Glendale Avenue North, Hamilton, Ontario, with their large single purpose tenant, have tenant specific leasehold improvements. These two properties, which are both leased to The Cambridge Towel Corporation (“Cambridge”), will together account for 12% and 20% of GCI’s assets and rental revenue, respectively, as at December 31, 2009, and therefore constitute a significant credit concentration. The term for both leases expires on January 31, 2011. In the event that GCI was to lose this tenant, or the tenant was unable to pay its rent as it becomes due, and GCI is not successful in replacing it with a similar tenant, this would have a significant impact on GCI’s revenue, financial condition and ability to satisfy its debt service obligations. In addition, a significant amount of demolition could be required to remove tenant specific leasehold improvements. Accordingly this credit concentration could be considered a risk factor. We Are Dependant On Our Tenants For A Large Portion Of Our Revenue So Our Cash Flow And Accordingly Our Success Is Dependent On The Financial Stability Of Our Tenants. The effect of negative economic and other conditions on tenants, the impact on their ability to make lease payments and the resulting impact on property cash flows could be considered a risk. For the most part, GCI’s tenants are suppliers to the retail market and therefore are vulnerable to adverse economic conditions that impact retail sales. To the extent that any one of GCI's tenants is negatively impacted by such a change in economic conditions and is no longer able to meet its rental obligations, this could impact GCI as expenditures, including property taxes, capital repair and replacement costs, maintenance costs, mortgage payments, insurance costs and related charges must be made throughout the period of ownership regardless of whether the property is producing any income. In addition, if GCI is unable to meet mortgage payments on its properties, loss could be sustained as a result of the mortgagee’s exercise of its rights of foreclosure and sale. If a lease is terminated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. Loss Of Tenants Could Affect Leasing Flexibility, Reduce Our Revenue, Net Income And Financial Condition. The relocation by an existing tenant could adversely affect GCI’s ability to generate income. The property located at Wendell Avenue, Toronto, Ontario is a multi-tenant facility with 55.6% of the building occupied by one tenant. The balance of the building is occupied by smaller tenants. In the event that one or more of these tenants was to vacate their unit GCI may find it difficult to provide appropriate space to prospective tenants. This could have an adverse effect on our financial performance through reduced revenues and cash flows which in turn may affect our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. GCI May Not Be Able To Renegotiate Financing Terms As They Come Due Which Could Affect Our Liquidity And Financial Condition. We cannot assure you that GCI will be able to successfully renegotiate mortgage financing on favourable terms on the various properties as the existing mortgages fall due. This could impact our liquidity, financial condition and our ability to meet working capital requirements. General Uninsured Losses My Result In GCI Losing Its Investment In And Cash Flows From Properties And Could Reduce Our Net Income. GCI carries comprehensive general liability for fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance with policy specifications, limits and deductibles customarily carried for similar properties. There are however certain types of risks (generally of a catastrophic nature such as wars or environmental contamination) that are either uninsurable or not insurable on an economically viable basis. Should an uninsured or underinsured loss occur, the value our assets will be reduced by such uninsured loss. In addition, GCI could lose its investment in and anticipated revenues, profits and cash flows from one or more of its properties, but GCI would continue to be obliged to repay any recourse mortgage indebtedness on such property which in turn will reduce our net income. Accordingly an uninsured or underinsured loss could impact our financial condition. Environmental Legislation And Contamination May Affect Our Operating Results And Our Ability To Borrow Against Or Sell Real Estate. Environmental legislation and policies has become an increasingly important feature of real property ownership and management in recent years. Under various laws, property owners could become liable for the costs of effecting remedial work necessitated by the release, deposit or presence of certain materials, including hazardous or toxic substances and, accordingly, environmental contamination could be considered a risk factor. GCI’s tenants include companies in the textile manufacturing business which represents a potential environmental risk. In addition, the migration of third party offsite contamination to one of GCI’s properties could be considered a risk. The failure by GCI to affect any necessary remedial work may adversely affect GCI’s ability to sell real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral and could result in claims against GCI. The cost of defending against claims of liability, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, or remediating any contaminated property could materially adversely affect the business, assets or results of operations of GCI. GCI has introduced an environmental maintenance program to oversee GCI’s compliance with Ministry of the Environment guidelines. GCI’s Common Stock May Be Deemed To Be A "Penny Stock," Which May Make It More Difficult For Investors To Sell Their Shares Due To Suitability Requirements. Our common stock may be deemed to be "penny stock" as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These requirements may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Penny stocks are stocks: With a price of less than $5.00 per share; That are not traded on a "recognized" national exchange; Whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); In issuers with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $10.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the last three years. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. You May Have Difficulty Selling Your Shares Of GCI Because Of The Limited Trading Volume. Historically, the securities of Genterra and CMI have experienced a very limited trading volume. As a result there may be less coverage by security analysts, the trading price may be lower, and it may be more difficult for our stockholders to dispose of our securities. The risks and uncertainties discussed above highlight the more important factors that could significantly affect the Company’s operations and profitability. They do not represent an exhaustive list of all potential issues that could affect the financial results of the Company.. ITEM 