D. Risk factors Consolidated Mercantile Incorporated's business is subject to a number of broad risks and uncertainties, including the following: 1. The Company retains a 23% equity interest in Polyair Inter Pack Inc. ("Polyair"), previously the Company's specialty pool cover and packaging subsidiary. Due to operating losses incurred, primarily in its Pool Division, Polyair's working capital position has deteriorated as it has used its bank facility to partially finance operating losses, capital expenditures and long-term debt repayments. In late 2005, Polyair's Board reaffirmed Polyair's business strategy in the protective packaging industry and determined that it would explore the sale of Polyair's Pool Division. Based on the working capital requirements of the Pool Division, Polyair's bank line is not sufficient to fund its cash requirements and it must either complete the sale of the Pool Division or raise additional capital in order for it to meet its financial requirements. In connection with the renewal of Polyair's banking facilities, in October 2005 Polyair's lenders required Polyair to complete the sale of the Pool Division by February 28, 2006 and to satisfy certain financial covenants. Additionally, Polyair committed to raise new capital by March 31, 2006, in the event it was not successful in selling the Pool Division. The lenders subsequently have agreed to extend the requirement that Polyair complete the sale of the Pool Division or raise additional capital to June 30, 2006. Subsequent to its recent quarter end, Polyair reached an agreement for the sale of its Pool accessories business. Net proceeds from this sale will be used to pay down the bank debt. Polyair's ability to meet its amended covenants is dependent on an improvement in its profitability. At April 29, 2006, Polyair's most recent quarter end, this improvement was not clearly established and it is therefore likely that in future periods Polyair may not be in compliance of its revised covenants. Under the terms of Polyair's lending agreements, violation of these financial covenants constitutes an event of default, which enables the lenders to demand repayment of the bank indebtedness, trigger cross defaults on the term loans thereby allowing the lenders to demand repayment of these loans, as well as take possession of the collateral security, as described in Polyair's consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that Polyair will realize the necessary improvement in profitability in order to meet the revised bank covenants or that the additional debt or equity financing will be available when required or that it can be secured on satisfactory terms. In such an event, adjustments may be necessary to the carrying value of the Company's investment therein. 2. Distinctive Designs Furniture Inc. ("Distinctive"), the Company's furniture manufacturing subsidiary, has been advised by its bank that the bank has decided not to renew its credit facility beyond July 31, 2006. Distinctive is currently pursuing alternative financing with various financial institutions and believes it will be able to secure such financing. However, there can be no assurance that Distinctive will be able to do so or that such financing will not be substantially more expensive than the current facility. 3. Foreign Exchange. The Company's operating results are reported in Canadian dollars. Historically, approximately 73% of Polyair's and 20% of Distinctive's sales revenues were generated primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. While Polyair is now being accounted for using the equity method and revenues and expenses from this investment are no longer recorded, the equity results therefrom still have a direct impact on the results of the Company. The average exchange rate for income statement translation of U.S. dollar denominated amounts was 1.22 for 2005 and 1.32 for 2004. Exchange rate fluctuations are beyond the control of the Company and there can be no assurance that the Canadian Dollar will not appreciate against the U.S. Dollar. Accordingly, any increase in the value of the Canadian Dollar versus the U.S. Dollar will reduce the Company's sales revenue as expressed in Canadian dollars and may also impact the results of Polyair. As a result of the strengthened Canadian dollar, the furniture industry is exposed to additional competition from imported products. Offshore manufacturers have made in-roads into the Canadian upholstery market and Distinctive is under increased pressure to adjust selling prices to meet this import competition. Polyair and Distinctive purchase goods and services in both Canadian and U.S. dollars. To reduce their exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, the Company, Polyair, and Distinctive may hedge their currency risk based on management's view of currency trends, estimated currency requirements and consultation with the Company's financial advisors. 4. Raw Materials. Distinctive and Polyair use various commodity raw materials and energy products in conjunction with their manufacturing processes. Generally, they acquire such components at market prices and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. As a result, they are exposed to market risk related to changes in commodity prices related to these components. 5. Weather. Weather is the principal external factor that affects demand for Polyair's Pool Division products. Unseasonal late warming or a wet early summer can decrease the length of the pool season and reduce demand for these products. Polyair's pool products business is highly seasonal and as a result a substantial portion of its operating income is generated in its third quarter. Any factors that disrupt sales or operations in these months could materially affect the earnings of Polyair. 6. Environmental Regulation. Polyair and Distinctive are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations in Canada and the United States pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposition of wastes and otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Included in the assets purchased by Polyair from Jacuzzi Leisure Products Ltd. and Jacuzzi Inc. is a property in Toronto that has been identified as having some industrial contamination. Polyair has reserved funds for remediation thereof and has taken on an insurance policy that covers liability for offsite damages and claims. In addition, Polyair has entered into a put/call agreement that allows for the sale of this property. The Company had previously reported that Polyair had entered into a sale and leaseback of this property with an unrelated third party. The sale and leaseback agreement was subject to financing, environmental due diligence conditions, the consent of the put/call purchaser and Polyair's lenders. This potential third party purchaser advised that it was unable to meet the conditions for its purchase of this property and this conditional agreement has lapsed. Polyair is now considering its options with regard to the property. Although all other facilities are in compliance with regulatory standards, there can be no assurance that changes in environmental laws and regulations, or their application, will not require further expenditures by either Polyair or Distinctive. 7. Credit Risk. Distinctive and Polyair face a certain degree of credit risk arising from the sales of products on credit terms to customers. Distinctive and Polyair seek to maintain a diversity in their customers so that they are not exposed in a material manner to credit risk from any one customer. Distinctive and Polyair attempt to mitigate credit risk through the establishment of credit limits and terms of sales with its customers. Credit limits are reviewed and monitored regularly. Three separate customers at Distinctive accounted for approximately 46% (2004 - 46%) of its revenues. Loss of any of these customers could result in unsold inventory and decreased capacity utilization. 8. Legal Claims. Polyair has been named from time to time as a defendant in claims arising from pool-related injuries. In each case which has been resolved, Polyair has either prevailed (on the merits or by dismissal) or secured settlement well within insurance coverage limits. Polyair believes its products are safe and contain proper use warnings, but avoidance of litigation cannot be assured. The risks factors discussed above highlight the more important factors that could significantly affect the Company's operations and profitability. They do not represent an exhaustive list of all potential issues that could affect the financial results of the Company. 