Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We have certain environmental remediation liabilities associated with our Port Gamble property, and those liabilities may increase. We own certain real estate at Port Gamble on the Kitsap Peninsula in western Washington. We are in active discussions with the Washington State Department of Ecology to promote protection of the environment, optimize and appropriately allocate the remaining cleanup liabilities, and maximize our control over the remediation process. Management continues to monitor the Port Gamble cleanup process closely. The $1.3 million remediation liability balance as of December 31, 2009 represents our best current estimate of the remaining cleanup cost and most likely outcome to various contingencies within the overall project. However this estimate balance is itself based upon a number of estimates and judgments that are subject to change as the project progresses. We may incur losses as a result of natural disasters that may occur, or that may be alleged to have occurred, on our properties. Forests are subject to a number of natural hazards, including damage by fire, hurricanes, insects and disease, and during periods of unusually heavy rain and snowmelt, flooding and landslides may damage homes and personal property. Changes in global climate conditions may intensify these natural hazards. Severe weather conditions and other natural disasters can also reduce the productivity of timberlands and disrupt the harvesting and delivery of forest products. While damage from natural causes is typically localized and would normally affect only a small portion of our timberlands at any one time, these hazards are unpredictable and losses might not be so limited. While management believes we follow sound forest management and risk mitigation procedures, and all forest operations meet or exceed the rules and regulations governing forest practices in the State of Washington, we cannot be certain that we will not be the subject of claims based on allegations that we acted improperly in managing our property. These claims may take the form of individual or class action litigation, regulatory or enforcement proceedings, or both. Any such claims could result in substantial defense costs and divert management’s attention from the ongoing operation of our business, and if any such claims were successful, may result in substantial damage awards, fines or civil penalties. Consistent with the practices of other large timber companies, we do not maintain insurance against loss of standing timber on our timberlands due to natural disasters. 15 We compete with a number of larger competitors that may be better able than we to absorb the effects of price fluctuations, may be able to expend greater resources on production, may have greater access to capital, and may operate more efficiently than we can. We compete against much larger companies in each of our business segments. We compete with these companies for management and line personnel, as well as for purchases of relatively scarce capital assets such as land and standing timber and for sales of our products. These larger competitors may have access to larger amounts of capital and significantly greater economies of scale, and they may be better able to absorb the risks of our line of business. Moreover, the timber industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years and, as that consolidation occurs, our relative market share decreases and the relative financial capacity of our competitors’ increases. While management believes the Partnership is at a competitive advantage over some of these companies because of our lack of vertical integration into forest products manufacturing, our advantageous tax structure, and management’s attempts to diversify our asset base, we cannot assure readers that competition will not have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. Our business may be affected by climate change initiatives. In recent months environmental activists, global treaty organizations, the U.S. Congress, and numerous state legislatures have intensified their scrutiny of environmentally significant industries in response to well-publicized reports of the adverse impacts of global greenhouse gas emissions, deforestation, and similar environmental impacts upon the earth's climate. A broad range of proposals have been considered by state and federal regulatory authorities, whose stated objectives would be to mitigate potential climate change by reducing or eliminating activities and business practices that are allegedly tied to global climate change. A number of these proposals remain under active consideration. These proposals include a number of restrictions and requirements which, if adopted, would adversely affect the U.S. domestic timber industry generally, and our business in particular. These include initiatives to reduce timber harvests (to promote the natural recycling of carbon dioxide into oxygen and other byproducts), which, if adopted and applied to our timberlands, would adversely impact our fee timber income; initiatives to curb heavy equipment usage, which, if adopted, would tend to increase transportation and harvest costs; substantial increases in reporting and compliance, which, if adopted, would likely increase our general and administrative expense and, potentially, our costs of sales; and a variety of other components which may reduce our revenues or increase our expenses, particularly as relates to our Fee Timber and our Timberland Management & Consulting segments. Consolidation of sawmills in our geographic operating area may reduce competition among our customers, which could adversely affect our log prices. In the past we have experienced, and may continue to experience, consolidation of sawmills in the Pacific Northwest. Because a portion of our cost of sales in our Fee Timber segment consists of transportation costs for delivery of logs to domestic sawmills, it becomes increasingly expensive to transport logs over longer distances for sales in domestic markets. As a result, a reduction in the number of sawmills, or in the number of sawmill operators, may reduce competition for our logs, increase transportation costs, or both. These consolidations thus may have a material adverse impact upon our Fee Timber revenue or income and, as that segment has traditionally represented our largest business unit, upon our results of operation and financial condition as a whole. We are sensitive to demand and price issues relating to our sales of logs in both domestic and foreign markets. We generate Fee Timber revenue primarily by selling softwood logs to domestic mills and to third-party intermediaries who resell them to the export market. The domestic market for logs in the Puget Sound region of Washington State depends heavily on housing starts. Recent economic events have dramatically slowed housing starts, which has reduced demand for lumber. In addition, imported lumber from Canada and increasing market acceptance of engineered wood products have acted to hold down the price of lumber. These factors have had the effect of concentrating mill ownership in larger, more efficient, mill operators and decreasing the number of mills operating in the Puget Sound region. These characteristics have resulted in a decrease in local demand for logs, which in turn has decreased our profitability. To the extent the housing crisis continues or deepens the negative impacts on our operating results will continue. Over the past decade, we have seen log prices erode in the Japanese market as competing logs and lumber from regions outside of the United States and engineered wood products have gradually gained market acceptance. These export markets for Pacific Northwest logs are significantly affected by fluctuations in United States, Japanese and, increasingly, Chinese and Korean economies, as well as by the foreign currency exchange rate between these Asian currencies and the U.S. dollar, as well as ocean transportation costs. 16 We are subject to statutory and regulatory risks that currently limit, and may increasingly limit, our ability to generate Fee Timber and Real Estate income. Our ability to grow and harvest timber can be significantly impacted by legislation, regulations or court rulings that restrict or stop forest practices. For example, recent storm events have brought increasing public attention to stability of slopes during extreme weather events. Additional regulations surrounding operating activities conducted on and around slopes may make it more difficult for us to harvest timber and may reduce the amount of harvestable timber on our properties. These and other restrictions on logging, planting, road building, fertilizing, managing competing vegetation and other activities can significantly increase the cost or reduce available inventory thereby reducing income. These regulations are likely to have a similar effect on our Timberland Management & Consulting operations. Moreover, the value of our real estate investments, and our income from Real Estate operations, are sensitive to changes in the economic and regulatory environment, as well as various land-use regulations and development risks, including the ability to obtain the necessary permits and zoning variances that would allow us to maximize the revenue from our real estate investments. Our real estate investments are long-term in nature, which raises the risk that unforeseen changes in the economy or laws surrounding development activities may have an adverse affect on our investments. Moreover, these investments often are highly illiquid and thus may not generate cash flow if and when needed to support our other operations. We and our customers are dependent upon active credit markets to fund operations. We sell logs from our Fee Timber segment to mills and log brokers that in most circumstances rely upon an active credit market to fund their operations. Our Real Estate sales are also often dependent upon credit markets in order to fund acquisitions. To the extent the ongoing economic crisis exacerbates existing borrowing restrictions that impact many of our customers, we expect those customers to respond by reducing their expenditures, and those reductions may have the effect of directly reducing our revenues and of indirectly reducing the demand for our products. Any such outcomes could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. One of our two timberland mortgages matures in 2011 and may be challenging to refinance. The Partnership has a low level of leverage relative to our asset base. We do, however, have a timberland mortgage with a balance owed of $19.3 million at December 31, 2009. This mortgage matures in March 2011 with an expected amount due of $18.6 million. During 2009 credit markets weakened considerably which has had both direct and indirect impacts on our operations and to the extent these circumstances continue our operating results will be adversely affected and our ability to refinance our timberland mortgage in 2011 could be impaired. We are controlled by our managing general partner. As a limited partnership, substantially all of our day-to-day affairs are controlled by our managing general partner, Pope MGP, Inc. The board of directors of Pope MGP, Inc. serves as our board of directors, and by virtue of a stockholder agreement, the shareholders of Pope MGP, Inc., Emily T. Andrews and Peter T. Pope, each have the ability to designate one of our directors and to veto the selection of each of our other directors, other than our chief executive officer, who serves as a director by virtue of his executive position. Unitholders may remove the managing general partner only in limited circumstances, including, among other things, a vote of the holders of a two-thirds majority of the “qualified units,” which means the units that have been owned by their respective holders for at least five years prior to such vote. By virtue of the terms of our agreement of limited partnership, as amended, or “partnership agreement”, our managing general partner directly, and Mrs. Andrews and Mr. Pope indirectly, have the ability to prevent or impede transactions that would result in a change of control of the Partnership; to prevent or, upon the approval of limited partners holding a majority of the units, to cause, the sale of the assets of the Partnership; and to cause the Partnership to take or refrain from taking certain other actions that you might otherwise perceive to be in the Partnership’s best interest. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to pay to Pope MGP, Inc. an annual management fee of $150,000, and to reimburse Pope MGP, Inc. for certain expenses incurred in managing our business. The managing general partner also receives a special allocation of profits from our investor portfolio management business. No such allocations were earned in 2009 and 2008. Reimbursements for expenses totaled $2,000 in 2009 and $8,000 in 2008. 17 We benefit from certain tax treatment accorded to master limited partnerships, and if that status changes the holders of our units may realize less advantageous tax consequences. The Partnership is a Master Limited Partnership (MLP) and is therefore not generally subject to U.S. Federal income taxes. If a change in tax law (or interpretation of current tax law) caused the Partnership to become subject to income taxes, operating results would be adversely affected. We also have two taxable subsidiaries. The estimation of income tax expense and preparation of income tax returns requires complex calculations and judgments. We believe the estimates and calculations used in this process are proper and reasonable but if a Federal or state taxing authority disagreed with the positions we have taken, a material change in provision for income taxes, net income, or cash flows could result. 18 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION COMMENTS None 