Item 1A. Risk Factors An overall economic downturn could negatively impact our earnings. Weakening economic activity in our markets could result in a loss of customers, a decline in customer additions, especially in the new home construction market, or a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. It may become more difficult for customers to pay their gas bills, leading to slow collections and higher-than-normal levels of accounts receivable. This could increase our financing requirements and non-gas cost bad debt expense. Deteriorating economic conditions could also affect pension costs by reducing the value of the investments that fund our pension plan and negatively affect actuarial assumptions, resulting in increased pension costs. The foregoing could negatively affect earnings and liquidity, reducing our ability to grow the business. Increases in the wholesale price of natural gas could reduce our earnings and working capital. The supply and demand balance in natural gas markets could cause an increase in the price of natural gas. Recently, the increased production of U.S. shale natural gas has put downward pressure on the wholesale cost of natural gas; accordingly, restrictions or regulations on shale gas production could cause natural gas prices to increase. Additionally, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has regulatory authority of the over-the-counter derivatives markets. Regulations affecting derivatives could increase the price of our gas supply. The prudently incurred cost we pay for natural gas is passed directly through to our customers. Therefore, significant increases in the price of natural gas may cause our existing customers to conserve or motivate them to switch to alternate sources of energy as well as cause new home developers, builders and new customers to select alternative sources of energy. Decreases in the volume of gas we sell could reduce our earnings in the absence of decoupled rate structures, and a decline in new customers could impede growth in our future earnings. In addition, during periods when natural gas prices are high, our working capital costs could increase due to higher carrying costs of gas storage inventories, adding further upward pressure on customers’ bills. Customers may have trouble paying those higher bills which may lead to bad debt expenses, ultimately reducing our earnings. 8 Table of Contents The availability of adequate interstate pipeline transportation capacity and natural gas supply may decrease. We purchase all of our gas supply from interstate sources that must then be transported to our service territory. Interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system under firm service agreements that are designed to meet the requirements of our core markets. A significant disruption to or reduction in that supply or interstate pipeline capacity due to events including but not limited to, operational failures or disruptions, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, freeze off of natural gas wells, terrorist or cyber-attacks or other acts of war, or legislative or regulatory actions, could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas and thereby reduce our earnings. Moreover, if additional natural gas infrastructure, including but not limited to exploration and drilling rigs and platforms, processing and gathering systems, off-shore pipelines, interstate pipelines and storage, cannot be built at a pace that meets demand, then our growth opportunities would be limited and our earnings negatively impacted. Regulatory actions at the state level could impact our ability to earn a reasonable rate of return on our invested capital and to fully recover our operating costs as well as reduce our earnings. Our regulated utility segment is regulated by the NCUC, the PSCSC and the TRA. These agencies set the rates that we charge our customers for our services. We monitor allowed rates of return and our ability to earn appropriate rates of return based on factors, such as increased operating costs, and initiate general rate proceedings as needed. If a state regulatory commission were to prohibit us from setting rates that allow for the timely recovery of our costs and a reasonable return by significantly lowering our allowed return or negatively altering our cost allocation, rate design, cost trackers, including margin decoupling and cost of gas, recovery of regulatory assets, including deferred gas costs, or other tariff provisions, then our earnings could be negatively impacted. In the normal course of business in the regulatory environment, assets are placed in service before rate cases can be filed that could result in an adjustment of our returns. Once rate cases are filed, regulatory bodies have the authority to suspend implementation of the new rates while studying the cases. Because of this process, we may suffer the negative financial effects of having placed in service assets that do not initially earn our authorized rate of return without the benefit of rate relief, which is commonly referred to as “regulatory lag.” Additionally, our capital investment in recent years has been and is projected to remain at higher levels, increasing the risk of cost recovery. The foregoing may negatively impact our results of operations and earnings. Rate cases also involve a risk of rate reduction, because once rates have been filed, they are still subject to challenge for their reasonableness by various intervenors. Regulatory authorities also review whether our gas costs are prudent and can adjust the amount of our gas costs that we pass through to our customers. Additionally, our state regulators foster a competitive regulatory model that, for example, allows us to recover any margin losses associated with negotiated transactions designed to retain large volume customers that could use alternative fuels or that may directly access natural gas supply through their own connection to an interstate pipeline. If there are changes in the regulatory compact that alter our ability to compete for these customers, then we could lose customers or incur significant unrecoverable expenses or margin losses to retain them. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents Our debt and equity financings are also subject to regulation by the NCUC. Delays or failure to receive NCUC approval could limit our ability to access or take advantage of changes in the capital markets. This could negatively impact our liquidity or earnings. Our business is subject to competition that could negatively affect our results of operations. The natural gas business is competitive, and we face competition from other companies that supply energy, including electric companies, oil and propane dealers, renewable energy providers and coal companies in relation to sources of energy for electric power plants, as well as nuclear energy. A significant competitive factor is price. In residential, commercial and industrial customer markets, our natural gas distribution operations compete with other energy products, primarily electricity, propane and fuel oil. Our primary product competition is with electricity for heating, water heating and cooking. Increases in the price of natural gas or decreases in the price of other energy sources could negatively impact our competitive position by decreasing the price benefits of natural gas to the consumer. In the case of industrial customers, such as manufacturing plants, adverse economic or market conditions, including higher gas costs, could cause these customers to suspend business operations or to use alternative sources of energy or bypass our systems in favor of energy sources with lower per-unit costs. Higher gas costs or decreases in the price of other energy sources may allow competition from alternative energy sources for applications that have traditionally used natural gas, encouraging some customers to move away from natural gas-fired equipment to equipment fueled by other energy sources. Competition between natural gas and other forms of energy is also based on efficiency, performance, reliability, safety and other non-price factors. Technological improvements in other energy sources and events that impair the public perception of the non-price attributes of natural gas could erode our competitive advantage. These factors in turn could decrease the demand for natural gas, impair our ability to attract new customers, and cause existing customers to switch to other forms of energy or to bypass our systems in favor of alternative competitive sources. This could result in slow or no customer growth and could cause customers to reduce or cease using our product, thereby reducing our ability to make capital expenditures and otherwise grow our business and adversely affecting our earnings. Our business activities are concentrated in three states. Approximately 97% of our assets and 88% of our earnings before taxes come from our regulated utility businesses. Further, approximately 70% of our natural gas utility customers and most of our utility transmission and distribution pipelines are located in North Carolina, with the remainder located in South Carolina and Tennessee. Changes in the regional economies, politics, regulations and weather patterns of North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee could negatively impact the growth opportunities available to us and the usage patterns and financial condition of customers and could adversely affect our earnings. We are subject to new and existing laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures, significantly increase operating costs, or significant fines or penalties for noncompliance. Our business and operations are subject to regulation by the FERC, the NCUC, the PSCSC, the TRA, the DOT, the EPA, the CFTC and other agencies, and we are subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations. Compliance with existing or new laws and regulations may result 10 Table of Contents in increased capital, operating and other costs which may not be recoverable in rates from our customers. Furthermore, because the language in some laws and regulations is not prescriptive, there is a risk that our interpretation of these laws and regulations may not be consistent with expectations of regulators. Any compliance failure related to these laws and regulations may result in fines, penalties or injunctive measures affecting operating assets. For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the Natural Gas Act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. In addition, as the regulatory environment for our industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance could also increase. All of the above could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Climate change, carbon neutral or energy efficiency legislation or regulations could increase our operating costs or restrict our market opportunities, negatively affecting our growth, cash flows and earnings. The federal and/or state governments may enact legislation or regulations that attempt to control or limit the causes of climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions such as carbon dioxide. Such laws or regulations could impose costs tied to carbon emissions, operational requirements or restrictions, or additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities. They could also provide a cost advantage to alternative energy sources, impose costs or restrictions on end users of natural gas, or result in other costs or requirements, such as costs associated with the adoption of new infrastructure and technology to respond to new mandates. The focus on climate change could negatively impact the reputation of fossil fuel products or services. The occurrence of the foregoing events could put upward pressure on the cost of natural gas relative to other energy sources, increase our costs and the prices we charge to customers, reduce the demand for natural gas, and impact the competitive position of natural gas and the ability to serve new customers, negatively affecting our growth opportunities, cash flows and earnings. Weather conditions may cause our earnings to vary from year to year. Our earnings can vary from year to year, depending in part on weather conditions. Warmer-than-normal weather can reduce our utility margins as customer consumption declines. We have in place regulatory mechanisms and rate design that normalize the margin we collect from certain customer classes during the winter, providing for an adjustment up or down, to take into account warmer-than-normal or colder-than-normal weather. If our rates and tariffs are modified to eliminate weather protection provisions, such as weather normalization and rate decoupling tariffs, then we would be exposed to significant risk associated with weather. Additionally, our weather normalization mechanisms provide reduced protection for significantly warmer-than-normal winter weather. As a result of the foregoing, our results of operations and earnings could vary and be negatively impacted. The operation of our gas distribution and transmission activities may be interrupted by accidents, work stoppage, severe weather conditions, including destructive weather patterns, such as hurricanes, tornadoes and floods, pandemic or acts of terrorism. Inherent in our gas distribution and transmission activities, including natural gas and LNG storage, are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as third party excavation damage, leaks, ruptures and mechanical problems. Severe weather conditions, as well as acts of terrorism or cyber-attacks, could also damage our pipelines and other infrastructure and disrupt our ability to 11 Table of Contents conduct our natural gas distribution and transportation business. The outbreak of a pandemic could result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. If the foregoing events are severe enough or if they lead to operational interruptions, they could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental damage, impairment of our operations and substantial loss to us. The location of pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Our regulators may not allow us to recover part or all of the increased cost related to the foregoing events from our customers, which would negatively affect our earnings. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to complete necessary or desirable pipeline expansion or infrastructure development projects, which may delay or prevent us from serving our customers or expanding our business. In order to serve new customers or expand our service to existing customers, we need to maintain, expand or upgrade our distribution, transmission and/or storage infrastructure, including laying new pipeline and building compressor stations. Various factors may prevent or delay us from completing such projects or make completion more costly, such as the inability to obtain required approval from local, state and/or federal regulatory and governmental bodies, public opposition to the project, inability to obtain adequate financing, competition for labor and materials, construction delays, cost overruns, and inability to negotiate acceptable agreements relating to rights-of-way, construction or other material development components. As a result, we may not be able to adequately serve existing customers or support customer growth, which would negatively impact our earnings. In addition, the counterparty to one of our power generation construction agreements may elect to terminate the agreement prior to the in-service date for the project, which would negatively affect future earnings and cash flows. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our cost of and ability to access capital. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective financing depends in part on our credit ratings. A negative change in our ratings outlook or any downgrade in our current investment-grade credit ratings by our rating agencies, particularly below investment grade, could adversely affect our costs of borrowing and/or access to sources of liquidity and capital. Such a downgrade could further limit our access to private credit markets and increase the costs of borrowing under available credit lines. Should our credit ratings be downgraded, the interest rate on our borrowings under our revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program would increase. An increase in borrowing costs without the ability to recover these higher costs in the rates charged to our customers could adversely affect earnings by limiting our ability to earn our allowed rate of return. We may be unable to access capital or the cost of capital may significantly increase. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective financing is dependent upon the liquidity of the financial markets, in addition to our credit ratings. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term capital. Our access to funds under short-term credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding 12 Table of Contents commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Disruptions and volatility in the global credit markets could cause the interest rate we pay on our short-term credit facility, which is based on the London Interbank Offered Rate, to increase, could result in higher interest rates on future financings, and could impact the liquidity of the lenders under our short-term credit facility, potentially impairing their ability to meet their funding commitments. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our business. Tax rates on dividends may increase, which could increase the cost of equity. The inability to access adequate capital or the increase in cost of capital may require us to conserve cash, prevent or delay us from making capital expenditures, and require us to reduce or eliminate the dividend or other discretionary uses of cash. A significant reduction in our liquidity could cause a negative change in our ratings outlook or even a reduction in our credit ratings. This could in turn further limit our access to credit markets and increase our costs of borrowing. Changes in federal and state fiscal, tax and monetary policy could significantly increase our costs or decrease our cash flows. Changes in federal and state fiscal, tax and monetary policy may result in increased taxes, interest rates, and inflationary pressures on the costs of goods, services and labor. This could increase our expenses and decrease our earnings if we are not able to recover such increased costs from our customers. This series of events may increase our rates to customers and thus may negatively impact customer billings and customer growth. Changes in accounting or tax rules could negatively affect our cash flows. Any of these events may cause us to increase debt, conserve cash, negatively affect our ability to make capital expenditures to grow the business or require us to reduce or eliminate the dividend or other discretionary uses of cash, and could negatively affect earnings. We do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet all our cash needs. Historically, we have made large capital expenditures in order to finance the expansion, upgrading and maintenance of our transmission and distribution systems. We also purchase natural gas for storage. We have made several equity method investments and will continue to pursue other similar investments, all of which are and will be important to our growth and profitability. We fund a portion of our cash needs for these purposes, as well as contributions to our employee pensions and benefit plans, through borrowings under credit arrangements and by offering new debt and equity securities. Our dependency on external sources of financing creates the risk that our profits could decrease as a result of higher borrowing costs and that we may not be able to secure external sources of cash necessary to fund our operations and new investments on terms acceptable to us. Volatility in seasonal cash flow requirements, including requirements for our gas supply procurement and risk management programs, may require increased levels of borrowing that could result in non-compliance with the debt-to-equity ratios in our credit facilities as well as cause a credit rating downgrade. Any disruptions in the capital and credit markets could require us to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding required for our needs can be secured. Such measures could cause deferral of major capital expenditures, changes in our gas supply procurement program, the reduction or elimination of the dividend payment or other discretionary uses of cash, and could negatively affect our future growth and earnings. 13 Table of Contents As a result of cross-default provisions in our borrowing arrangements, we may be unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations in the event of a default on our part. The terms of our senior indebtedness, including our revolving credit facility, contain cross-default provisions which provide that we will be in default under such agreements in the event of certain defaults under the indenture or other loan agreements. Accordingly, should an event of default occur under any of those agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under all of our debt agreements, obliged in such instance to satisfy all of our outstanding indebtedness and unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations simultaneously. In such an event, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, which would negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, make capital expenditures and finance our operations. We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom we do business. Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, counterparties with whom we do business could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for our services or fulfill their contractual obligations. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments to fulfill their contractual obligations on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment or failure of the counterparties to meet their contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The cost of providing pension benefits and related funding obligations may increase. Our costs of providing a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, changes in these actuarial assumptions, future government regulation, changes in life expectancy, and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plan. Changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund our pension plan, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in our liabilities, could increase the expense of our pension plan, and we could be required to fund our plan with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. We may invest in companies that have risks that are inherent in their businesses, and these risks may negatively affect our earnings from those companies. We are invested in several natural gas related businesses as an equity method investor. The businesses in which we invest are subject to laws, regulations or market conditions, or have risks inherent in their operations, that could adversely affect their performance. Those that are not directly regulated by state or federal regulatory bodies could be subject to adverse market conditions not experienced by our regulated utility segment. We do not control the day to day operations of our equity method investments, and thus the management of these businesses by our partners could adversely impact their performance. We may not be able to fully direct the management and policies of these businesses, and other participants in those relationships may take action contrary to our interests, including making operational decisions that could affect our costs and liabilities related to our investment. In addition, other participants may withdraw from the business, become financially distressed or bankrupt, or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. All the foregoing could adversely affect our 14 Table of Contents earnings from or return of our investment in these businesses. We could make future equity method investments or acquisitions of unregulated businesses that have the similar potential to adversely affect our earnings from or return of our investment in those businesses. All these adverse impacts could negatively affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain professional and technical employees, which could adversely impact our earnings. Our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract and retain a skilled workforce. We are subject to the risk that we will not be able to effectively replace the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce as those workers retire. Without a skilled workforce, our ability to provide quality service to our customers and meet our regulatory requirements will be challenged, and this could negatively impact our earnings. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The SEC is considering whether issuers in the United States should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) instead of the current generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), which are currently in effect for most other countries in the world. Unlike U.S. GAAP, IFRS does not currently provide an industry accounting standard for rate-regulated activities. As such, if IFRS were adopted in its current state, we may be precluded from applying certain regulatory accounting principles, including the recognition of certain regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities. The potential issues associated with rate-regulated accounting, along with other potential changes associated with the adoption of IFRS, may adversely impact our reported financial condition and results of operations should adoption of IFRS be required. Also, the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board is considering various changes to U.S. GAAP, some of which may be significant, as part of a joint effort with the IASB to converge accounting standards over the next several years. If approved, adoption of these changes may adversely impact our reported financial condition and results of operations. Cyber-attack, acts of cyber-terrorism or failure of technology systems could disrupt our business operations, shut down our facilities or result in the loss or exposure of confidential or sensitive customer, employee or Company information. We are placing greater reliance on technological tools that support our operations and corporate functions and processes. We may own these tools or have a license to use them, or we may rely on the technological tools of third parties to whom we outsource processes. We use such tools to manage our natural gas distribution and transmission pipeline operations, maintain customer, employee, Company and vendor data, prepare our financial statements, manage supply chain and other business processes. One or more of these technologies may fail due to physical disruption such as flooding, design defects or human error, or we may be unable to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies. Additionally, our business operations and information technology systems may be vulnerable to attack by individuals or organizations that could result in disruption to them. 15 Table of Contents Disruption or failure of business operations and information technology systems could shut down our facilities or otherwise adversely impact our ability to safely deliver natural gas to our customers, operate our pipeline systems, serve our customers effectively or manage our assets. An attack on or failure of information technology systems could result in the unauthorized release of customer, employee or other confidential or sensitive data. The foregoing events could adversely affect our business reputation, diminish customer confidence, disrupt operations, subject us to financial liability or increased regulation, increase our costs and expose us to material legal claims and liability, and our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. We currently have general liability and property insurance in place in amounts that we consider appropriate based on our business risk and best practices in our industry and in general business. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and include business interruption coverage for limited circumstances. Insurance coverage covering risks against which we and others in our industry typically insure may not be available in the future, or may be available but at materially increased costs, reduced coverage or on terms that are not commercially reasonable. Premiums and deductibles may increase substantially. The insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of our facilities or to third parties may not be sufficient to restore the total loss or damage. Further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 