Item 1A. Risk Factors Increases in the wholesale price of natural gas could reduce our earnings and working capital. The supply and demand balance in natural gas markets could cause an increase in the price of natural gas. The prudently incurred cost we pay for natural gas is passed directly through to our customers. Therefore, significant increases in the price of natural gas may cause our existing customers to conserve or motivate them to switch to alternate sources of energy as well as cause new home developers, builders and new customers to select alternative sources of energy. Decreases in the volume of gas we sell could reduce our earnings in the absence of decoupled rate structures, and a decline in new customers could impede growth in our future earnings. In addition, during periods when natural gas prices are higher than historical levels, our working capital costs could increase due to higher carrying costs of gas storage inventories, and customers may have trouble paying higher bills leading to bad debt expenses, which may reduce our earnings. A decrease in the availability of adequate upstream, interstate pipeline transportation capacity and natural gas supply could reduce our earnings. 6 Table of Contents We purchase all of our gas supply from interstate sources that must then be transported to our service territory. Interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system under firm service agreements that are designed to meet the requirements of our core markets. A significant disruption to that supply or interstate pipeline capacity due to unforeseen events, including but not limited to, operational failures or disruptions, hurricanes, freeze off of natural gas wells, terrorist attacks or other acts of war, could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas, which could reduce our earnings. Moreover, if additional natural gas infrastructure, including but not limited to exploration and drilling platforms, processing and gathering systems, off-shore pipelines, interstate pipelines and storage, cannot be built at a pace that meets demand, then our growth opportunities would be limited and our earnings negatively impacted. Our business is subject to competition that could negatively affect our results of operations. The natural gas business is competitive, and we are facing increasing competition from other companies that supply energy, including electric companies, oil and propane dealers, renewable energy providers and, as it relates to sources of energy for electric power plants, coal. The primary competitive factor is price. In residential and commercial customer markets, our natural gas distribution operations compete with other energy products, primarily electricity, fuel oil and propane. Our primary product competition is with electricity for heating, water heating and cooking. Increases in the price of natural gas or decreases in the price of other energy sources could negatively impact our competitive position by decreasing the price benefits of natural gas to the consumer. In the case of industrial customers, such as manufacturing plants, adverse economic or market conditions, including higher gas costs, could cause these customers to use alternative sources of energy or bypass our systems in favor of special competitive contracts with lower per-unit costs. Higher gas costs or decreases in the price of other energy sources may allow competition from alternative energy sources for applications that have traditionally used natural gas, encouraging some customers to move away from natural gas-fired equipment to equipment fueled by other energy sources. Competition between natural gas and other forms of energy is also based on efficiency, performance, reliability and safety and other non-price factors. Technological improvements in other energy sources and events that impair the public perception of these non-price attributes of natural gas could erode our competitive advantage. These factors in turn could decrease the demand for natural gas, impair our ability to attract new customers, and cause existing customers to switch to other forms of energy or to bypass our systems in favor of alternative competitive sources. This could result in slow or no customer growth and could cause customers to reduce or cease using our product, thereby reducing our ability to make capital expenditures and otherwise grow our business and adversely affecting our earnings. Changes in federal laws or regulations could reduce the availability or increase the cost of our interstate pipeline capacity and/or gas supply and thereby reduce our earnings. The FERC has regulatory authority over some of our operations, including sales of natural gas in the wholesale market and the purchase and sale of interstate pipeline and storage capacity. Any Congressional legislation or agency regulation that would alter these or other similar statutory and regulatory structures in a way to significantly raise costs that could not be recovered in rates from our customers, would reduce the availability of supply or capacity, or would reduce our competitiveness, and that could negatively impact our earnings. 7 Table of Contents Climate change legislation or regulations could increase our operating costs, negatively affecting our growth, cash flows and earnings. There are proposed federal legislative initiatives that attempt to control or limit the causes of climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions such as carbon dioxide. Regulatory agencies may also issue similar climate change regulations. These initiatives could result in various new laws or regulations. Such laws or regulations could impose operational requirements, impose additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, provide a cost advantage to alternative energy sources other than natural gas, impose costs or restrictions on end users of natural gas, or result in other costs or requirements. As a result, there is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation or regulation could put upward pressure on the cost of natural gas relative to other energy sources, increase our costs and impact the competitive position of natural gas, negatively affecting our growth opportunities, cash flows and earnings. Regulatory actions at the state level could impact our ability to earn a reasonable rate of return on our invested capital and to fully recover our operating costs as well as reduce our earnings. Our regulated utility segment is regulated by the NCUC, the PSCSC and the TRA. These agencies set the rates that we charge our customers for our services. We monitor allowed rates of return and our ability to earn appropriate rates of return based on factors, such as increased operating costs, and initiate general rate proceedings as needed. If a state regulatory commission were to prohibit us from setting rates that timely recover our costs and a reasonable return by significantly lowering our allowed return or negatively altering our cost allocation, rate design, cost trackers (including margin decoupling and cost of gas) or other tariff provisions, then our earnings could be negatively impacted. In the normal course of business in the regulatory environment, assets are placed in service before rate cases can be filed that could result in an adjustment of our returns. Once rate cases are filed, regulatory bodies have the authority to suspend implementation of the new rates while studying the cases. Because of this process, we may suffer the negative financial effects of having placed in service assets that do not initially earn our authorized rate of return without the benefit of rate relief, which is commonly referred to as “regulatory lag.” Rate cases also involve a risk of rate reduction, because once rates have been approved, they are still subject to challenge for their reasonableness by various appropriate entities. Regulatory authorities may also review whether our gas cost purchases are prudent and can adjust the amount of our gas costs that we pass through to our customers. Additionally, our state regulators foster a competitive regulatory model that, for example, allows us to recover any margin losses associated with negotiated transactions designed to retain large volume customers that could use alternative fuels or that may directly access natural gas supply through their own connection to an interstate pipeline. If there were changes in regulatory philosophies that altered our ability to compete for these customers, then we could lose customers or incur significant unrecoverable expenses to retain them. Both scenarios would impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our debt and equity financings are also subject to regulation by the NCUC. Delays or failure to receive NCUC approval could limit our ability to access or take advantage of changes in the capital markets. This could negatively impact our liquidity or earnings. Weather conditions may cause our earnings to vary from year to year. Our earnings can vary from year to year, depending in part on weather conditions. 8 Table of Contents Currently, we have in place regulatory mechanisms that normalize our margin for weather during the winter, providing for an adjustment up or down, to take into account warmer-than-normal or colder-than-normal weather. We estimate that 80% to 85% of our annual utility margin is collected from temperature-sensitive customers. As a result, mild winter temperatures can cause a decrease in the amount of gas we sell and deliver in any year and the margin we collect from these customers. If our rates and tariffs were modified to eliminate weather protection, such as weather normalization and rate decoupling tariffs, then we would be exposed to significant risk associated with weather and our earnings could vary as a result. Our gas supply risk management programs are subject to state regulatory approval or annual review in gas cost proceedings. We manage our gas supply costs through short-term and long-term procurement and storage contracts. In the normal course of business, we utilize New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) exchange traded instruments and over-the-counter instruments of various durations for the forward purchase or sale of our natural gas requirements, subject to regulatory approval or review. As a component of our gas costs, these expenses are subject to regulatory approval, and we may be exposed to additional liability if the recovery of these costs of gas supply procurement or risk management activities is excluded by our regulators in gas cost recovery proceedings. Operational interruptions to our gas distribution activities caused by accidents, work stoppage, severe weather such as a major hurricane, pandemic or acts of terrorism could adversely impact earnings. Inherent in our gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, ruptures, mechanical problems and third party excavation damage. Weather events such as hurricanes, as well as acts of terrorism, can also damage our pipelines and other infrastructure and disrupt our ability to conduct our natural gas distribution and transportation business. Pandemic could result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. If the foregoing events are severe enough or if they lead to operational interruptions, they could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental damage, impairment of our operations and substantial loss to us. The location of pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Our regulators may not allow us to recover part or all of the increased cost related to the foregoing events from our customers, which would negatively affect our earnings. With part of our workforce represented by unions, we are exposed to the risk of a work stoppage. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Opposition to infrastructure development may delay or prevent us from expanding our business. In order to serve new customers or expand our service to existing customers, we often need to expand or upgrade our distribution, transmission and/or storage infrastructure, including laying new pipeline and building compressor stations or LNG storage tanks. Such infrastructure development requires us to seek approval from local, state and/or federal regulatory and governmental bodies. The approval process may involve the opportunity for the public to voice 9 Table of Contents opposition. Such opposition may delay or prevent such development, or may make it materially more costly to do so. As a result, we may not be able to adequately support customer growth, which would negatively impact our earnings. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our cost of and ability to access capital. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective financing depends on our credit ratings. A negative change in our ratings outlook or any downgrade in our current investment-grade credit ratings by our rating agencies, particularly below investment grade, could adversely affect our cost of borrowing and/or access to sources of liquidity and capital. Such a downgrade could further limit our access to private credit markets and increase the costs of borrowing under available credit lines. Should our credit rating be downgraded, the interest rate on our borrowings under our revolving credit agreement would increase. An increase in borrowing costs without the recognition of these higher costs in the rates charged to our customers could adversely affect earnings by limiting our ability to earn our allowed rate of return. The inability to access capital or significant increases in the cost of capital could adversely affect our business. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective financing is dependent upon the liquidity of the financial markets, in addition to our credit ratings. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term capital. Our access to funds under short-term credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Longer disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our business. The inability to access adequate capital may require us to conserve cash, prevent or delay us from making capital expenditures, and require us to reduce or eliminate the dividend or other discretionary uses of cash. Changes in federal and state fiscal and monetary policy could significantly increase our costs. Changes in federal and state fiscal and monetary policy may result in increased taxes, interest rates, and inflationary pressures on the costs of goods and services. This could increase our expenses and decrease our earnings if such increased costs are not reflected in allowed rates charged to customers. This series of events may increase our rates to customers and thus may negatively impact customer billings and customer growth. Any of these events may negatively affect our ability to make capital expenditures to grow the business and negatively affect earnings. We do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet all our cash needs. Historically, we have made large capital expenditures in order to finance the expansion and upgrading of our distribution system. We have also purchased and will continue to purchase natural gas for storage. We have made several equity method investments and will continue to pursue other similar investments, all of which are and will be important to our profitability. Volatility in gas prices may require us to post cash collateral as part of our regulated gas price hedging program. We have funded a portion of our cash needs for these purposes, as well as contributions to our employee pensions and benefit plans, through borrowings under credit 10 Table of Contents arrangements and by offering new securities in the open market. Our dependency on external sources of financing creates the risk that our profits could decrease as a result of higher borrowing costs and that we may not be able to secure external sources of cash necessary to fund our operations and new investments on terms acceptable to us. Volatility in seasonal cash flow requirements, including requirements for our gas supply procurement and risk management programs, may require increased levels of borrowing that could result in non-compliance with the debt-to-equity ratios in our credit facilities as well as cause a credit rating downgrade. Any disruptions in the capital and credit markets could require us to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding required for our needs can be secured. Such measures could cause deferral of major capital expenditures, changes in our gas supply procurement and risk management programs, the reduction or elimination of the dividend payment or other discretionary uses of cash. As a result of cross-default provisions in our borrowing arrangements, we may be unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations in the event of a default on our part. The terms of our senior indebtedness, including our revolving credit facility, contain cross-default provisions which provide that we will be in default under such agreements in the event of certain defaults under the indenture or other loan agreements. Accordingly, should an event of default occur under any of those agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under all of our debt agreements, obliged in such instance to satisfy all of our outstanding indebtedness and unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations simultaneously. In such an event, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, which would negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, make capital expenditures and finance our operations. Certain purchasers of our common stock under our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan (DRIP) may be entitled to rescind their purchases. As a result of an administrative error, sales of 568,000 shares of our common stock under the DRIP between December 1, 2008 and November 16, 2009, which represent less than 1% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of November 16, 2009, have not complied with the registration requirements of applicable securities laws, making them unregistered shares. A number of remedies may be available to DRIP participants who acquired shares during that period, including a right to rescind their purchases not later than one year after the date of the Form S-3 rescission offer to receive the full price paid by the DRIP participants, plus interest less any dividends received. DRIP participants who purchased unregistered shares pursuant to the DRIP and whose unregistered shares have fallen in value since the date of purchase could have an incentive to seek and to accept such a rescission. The sale of unregistered shares could also subject us to regulatory sanctions by the SEC or other regulatory authorities that might result in the imposition of civil penalties, which could include fines or a cease and desist order. We have reported these events and are cooperating with the relevant regulatory authorities, including the SEC and NCUC. Although we do not expect any rescissions or regulatory actions to have a material adverse effect on us, we are unable to predict the full consequences of these events and regulatory actions. 11 Table of Contents We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom we do business. Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, counterparties with whom we do business could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for our services or fulfill their contractual obligations. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments to fulfill their contractual obligations on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment or failure of the counterparties to meet their contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. Our costs of providing for the non-contributory defined benefit pension plan are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plan. A significant decline in the value of investments that fund our pension plan, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in our liabilities, may significantly differ from or alter the values and actuarial assumptions used to calculate our future pension expense. A decline in the value of these investments could increase the expense of our pension plan, and we could be required to fund our plan with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures or increase operating costs. We are subject to numerous federal and state environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and approvals. Compliance with these laws and regulations can require significant expenditures for clean-up costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties. Failure to comply may result in fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets. Additionally, the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions could give rise to expenditures and liabilities, including fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to new and existing pipeline safety and system integrity laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures or significantly increase operating costs. We are subject to new and existing pipeline safety and system integrity laws and regulations affecting various aspects of our present and future operations. These laws and regulations generally require us to enhance pipeline safety and system integrity by identifying and reducing pipeline risks. Compliance with these laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs which may not be recoverable in rates from our customers. Furthermore, because the language in some of these laws and regulations is not prescriptive, there is a risk that an incorrect or inadequate interpretation of these laws and regulations may lead to a failure to comply. Such a failure for this or other reasons may result in fines, penalties or 12 Table of Contents injunctive measures. All of the above could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. An overall economic downturn could negatively impact our earnings. Weakening of economic activity in our markets could result in a loss of customers or a decline in customer additions and energy consumption which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. It may become more difficult for customers to pay their gas bills, leading to slow collections and higher-than-normal levels of accounts receivable. This could increase our financing requirements and non-gas cost bad debt expense. Earnings and liquidity would be negatively affected, reducing our ability to grow the business. Our inability to attract and retain professional and technical employees could adversely impact our earnings. Our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract and retain a technically skilled workforce. Without such a skilled workforce, our ability to provide quality service to our customers and meet our regulatory requirements will be challenged and this could negatively impact our earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 