Item 1A. Risk Factors Further increases in the wholesale price of natural gas could reduce our earnings and working capital. In recent years, natural gas prices have increased dramatically due to growing demand and limitations on access to domestic gas reserves. The cost we pay for natural gas is passed directly through to our customers. Therefore, significant increases in the price of natural gas may cause our existing customers to conserve or motivate them to switch to alternate sources of energy. Significant price increases could also cause new home developers and new customers to select alternative sources of energy. Decreases in the volume of gas we sell could reduce our earnings in the absence of decoupled rate structures, and a decline in new customers could impede growth in our future earnings. In addition, during periods when natural gas prices are significantly higher than historical levels, our working capital costs increase due to carrying higher cost of gas storage inventories, and customers may have trouble paying the resulting higher bills and bad debt expenses may increase and reduce our earnings. A decrease in the availability of adequate upstream, interstate pipeline transportation capacity and natural gas supply could reduce our earnings. We purchase all of our gas supply from interstate sources that must then be transported to our service territory. Interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system 5 Table of Contents under firm service agreements that are designed to meet the requirements of our core markets. A significant disruption to that supply or interstate pipeline capacity due to unforeseen events, including but not limited to, hurricanes, freeze off of natural gas wells, terrorist attacks or other acts of war could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas, which could reduce our earnings. Moreover, if additional natural gas infrastructure, including but not limited to exploration and drilling platforms, processing and gathering systems, off-shore pipelines, interstate pipelines and storage cannot be built at a pace that meets demand, then our growth opportunities would be limited and our earnings negatively impacted. Changes in federal laws or regulations could reduce the availability or increase the cost of our interstate pipeline capacity and/or gas supply and thereby reduce our earnings. The FERC has regulatory authority over some of our operations, including sales of natural gas in the wholesale market and the purchase and sale of interstate pipeline and storage capacity. Additionally, Congress has enacted laws that deregulate the price of natural gas sold at the wellhead. Any Congressional legislation or agency regulation that would alter these or other similar statutory and regulatory structures in a way to significantly raise costs that could not be recovered in rates from our customers, that would reduce the availability of supply or capacity, or that would reduce our competitiveness would negatively impact our earnings. Furthermore, Congress has for some time been considering various forms of climate change legislation. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation could impact our costs and put upward pressure on wholesale natural gas prices. Higher cost levels could impact the competitive position of natural gas and negatively affect our growth opportunities, cash flows and earnings. Weather conditions may cause our earnings to vary from year to year. Our earnings can vary from year to year, depending in part on weather conditions. Currently, we have in place regulatory mechanisms that normalize our margin for weather during the winter, providing for an adjustment up or down, to take into account warmer-than-normal or colder-than-normal weather. We estimate that 50% to 60% of our annual gas sales are to temperature-sensitive customers. As a result, mild winter temperatures can cause a decrease in the amount of gas we sell and deliver in any year. If our rates and tariffs were modified to eliminate weather protection, then we would be exposed to significant risk associated with weather and our earnings could vary as a result. Governmental actions at the state level could impact our ability to earn a reasonable rate of return on our invested capital and to fully recover our operating costs as well as reduce our earnings. Our regulated utility segment is regulated by the NCUC, the PSCSC and the TRA. These agencies set the rates that we charge our customers for our services. We monitor allowed rates of return and our ability to earn appropriate rates of return and initiate general rate proceedings as needed. If a state regulatory commission were to prohibit us from setting rates that timely recover our costs and a reasonable return by significantly lowering our allowed return or negatively altering our cost allocation, rate design, cost trackers (including margin decoupling and cost of gas) or other tariff provisions, then our earnings could be impacted. Additionally, the state regulators foster a competitive regulatory model that, for example, allows us to recover any margin losses associated with negotiated transactions designed to retain large volume customers that could use alternative fuels or that may directly access natural gas supply through their own connection to an interstate pipeline. If there were changes in regulatory philosophies that altered our ability to compete for these customers, then we could lose customers or incur significant unrecoverable expenses to retain them. Both scenarios would impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, our debt and equity financings are also subject to regulation by the NCUC. Delays or failure to receive NCUC approval could limit our ability to access or take advantage of changes in the capital markets. This could negatively impact our liquidity or earnings. Our gas supply risk management programs are subject to state regulatory approval or annual review in gas cost proceedings. We manage our gas supply costs through short-term and long-term procurement and storage contracts. In the normal course of business, we utilize New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) exchange traded instruments of various durations for the forward purchase or sale of our natural gas requirements, subject to regulatory approval or review. As a component of our gas costs, these expenses are subject to regulatory approval, and we may be exposed to additional liability if the anticipated recovery of these costs of risk management activities is excluded by our regulators in gas cost flow through proceedings. 6 Table of Contents Operational interruptions to our gas distribution activities caused by accidents, strikes, severe weather such as a major hurricane, pandemic or acts of terrorism could adversely impact earnings. Inherent in our gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, ruptures and mechanical problems. If they are severe enough or if they lead to operational interruptions, they could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental damage, impairment of our operations and substantial loss to us. The location of pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Additionally, we have a workforce that is partially represented by the union that exposes us to the risk of a strike. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The inability to access capital or significant increases in the cost of capital could adversely affect our business. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective financing depends on our credit ratings as well as the liquidity of financial markets. A negative change in our ratings outlook or any downgrade in our current investment-grade credit ratings by our rating agencies could adversely affect our cost and/or access to sources of liquidity and capital. Additionally, such a downgrade could further limit our access to private credit markets and increase the costs of borrowing under available credit lines. An increase in borrowing costs without the recognition of these higher costs in the rates charged to our customers could adversely affect earnings by limiting our ability to earn our allowed rate of return. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term capital. Our access to funds under short-term credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Longer disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our business. We do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet all our cash needs. Historically, we have made large capital expenditures in order to finance the expansion and upgrading of our distribution system. We have also purchased and will continue to purchase natural gas for storage. Moreover, we have made several equity method investments and will continue to pursue other similar investments, all of which are and will be important to our profitability. We have funded a portion of our cash needs for these purposes, as well as contributions to our employee pensions and benefit plans, through borrowings under credit arrangements and by offering new securities in the market. Our dependency on external sources of financing creates the risk that our profits could decrease as a result of higher borrowing costs and that we may not be able to secure external sources of cash necessary to fund our operations and new investments on terms acceptable to us. Volatility in seasonal cash flow requirements, including requirements for our gas supply procurement and risk management programs, may require increased levels of borrowing that could result in non-compliance with the debt-to-equity ratios in our credit facilities as well as a credit rating downgrade. Any disruptions in the capital and credit markets could require us to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding required for our needs can be secured. Such measures could include deferring major capital expenditures, changing our gas supply procurement and risk management programs or reducing or eliminating the dividend or other discretionary uses of cash. As a result of cross-default provisions in our borrowing arrangements, we may be unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations in the event of a default on our part. The terms of our senior indebtedness, including our revolving credit facilities, contain cross-default provisions which provide that we will be in default under such agreements in the event of certain defaults under the indenture or other loan agreements. Accordingly, should an event of default occur under any of those agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under all of our debt agreements, obliged in such instance to satisfy all of our outstanding indebtedness and unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations simultaneously. In such an event, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us. We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom we do business. Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, counterparties with whom we do business could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for our services or fulfill their contractual obligations. We depend on these 7 Table of Contents counterparties to remit payments or fulfill their contractual obligations on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment or failure of the counterparties to meet their contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. Our costs of providing for the non-contributory defined benefit pension plan are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plan. A significant decline in the value of investments that fund our pension plan, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in our liabilities, may significantly differ from or alter the values and actuarial assumptions used to calculate our future pension expense. A decline in the value of these investments could increase the expense of our pension plan, and we could be required to fund our plan with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures or increase operating costs. We are subject to numerous federal and state environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and approvals. Compliance with these laws and regulations can require significant expenditures for clean-up costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties. Failure to comply may result in fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets. An overall economic downturn could negatively impact our earnings. The weakening of economic activity in our markets could result in a decline in customer additions and energy consumption which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. It may become more difficult for customers to pay their gas bills, leading to slow collections and higher-than-normal levels of accounts receivable. This could increase our financing requirements and non-gas cost bad debt expense. Earnings would be affected by these higher costs. Our inability to attract and retain professional and technical employees could adversely impact our earnings. Our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract and retain a technically skilled workforce. Without such a skilled workforce, our ability to provide quality service to our customers and meet our regulatory requirements will be challenged and this could negatively impact our earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 