Item 1A. Risk Factors A decrease in the availability of adequate upstream, interstate pipeline transportation capacity and natural gas supply could reduce our earnings. We purchase all of our gas supply from interstate sources that must then be transported to our service territory. Interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system under firm service agreements that are designed to meet the requirements of our core markets. A significant disruption to that supply or interstate pipeline capacity due to unforeseen events, including but not limited to, hurricanes, freeze off of natural gas wells, terrorist attacks or other acts of war could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas, which could reduce our earnings. Moreover, if additional natural gas infrastructure, including but not limited to exploration and drilling platforms, processing and gathering systems, off-shore pipelines and interstate pipelines cannot be built at a pace that meets demand, then our growth opportunities would be limited and our earnings negatively impacted. Changes in federal laws or regulations could reduce the availability or increase the cost of our interstate pipeline capacity and/or gas supply and thereby reduce our earnings. Congress has enacted laws that give the FERC the power to regulate the interstate transportation of natural gas and the terms and conditions of service. Additionally, Congress has enacted laws that deregulate the price of natural gas sold at the wellhead. Any Congressional legislation or agency regulation that would alter the current statutory and regulatory structure in a way to significantly raise costs that could not be recovered in rates from our customers or reduce the availability of supply or capacity would negatively impact our earnings. 5 Further increases in the wholesale price of natural gas could reduce our earnings. In recent years, natural gas prices have increased dramatically due to growing demand and limitations on North American gas production. The cost we pay for natural gas is passed directly through to our customers. Therefore, significant increases in the price of natural gas may cause our existing customers to conserve or motivate them to switch to alternate sources of energy. Significant price increases could also cause new home developers and new customers to select alternative sources of energy. Decreases in the volume of gas we sell could reduce our earnings, and a decline in new customers could impede growth in our future earnings. In addition, during periods when natural gas prices are significantly higher than historical levels, customers may have trouble paying the resulting higher bills and bad debt expenses may increase and reduce our earnings. Weather conditions may cause our earnings to vary from year to year. Our earnings can vary from year to year, depending in part on weather conditions. Currently, we have in place regulatory mechanisms that account for this and normalize our margin for weather, providing for an adjustment up or down to take into account colder-than-normal or warmer-than-normal weather. We estimate that approximately 50% to 60% of our annual gas sales are to temperature-sensitive customers. As a result, mild winter temperatures can cause a decrease in the amount of gas we sell and deliver in any year. If our rates and tariffs were modified to eliminate weather protection, then we would be exposed to significant risk associated with weather and our earnings could vary as a result. Governmental actions at the state level could result in lower earnings. Our regulated utility segment is regulated by the NCUC, the PSCSC and the TRA. These agencies set the rates that we charge our customers for our services. If a state regulatory commission were to prohibit us from setting rates that timely recover our costs and a reasonable return by significantly lowering our allowed return or negatively altering our cost allocation, rate design, cost trackers (including cost of gas) or other tariff provisions, then our earnings could be impacted. Additionally, the state agencies foster a competitive regulatory model that, for example, allows us to recover any margin losses associated with negotiated transactions designed to retain large volume customers that could use alternative fuels or that may directly access natural gas supply through their own connection to an interstate pipeline. If there were changes in regulatory philosophies that altered our ability to compete for these customers, then we could lose customers, or incur significant unrecoverable expenses to retain them. Both scenarios would impact our earnings. Operational interruptions to our gas distribution activities caused by accidents, strikes or acts of terrorism could adversely impact earnings. Inherent in our gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operation risks, such as leaks, ruptures and mechanical problems that, if severe enough or led to operational interruptions, could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental damage, impairment of our operations and substantial loss to us. The location of pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Additionally, the fact that we have a workforce that is partially represented by the union exposes us to the risk of a strike. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in our debt ratios could adversely affect our ability to service our debt obligations and our ability to access capital on favorable terms. An increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: • increasing the cost of future debt financing; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our existing financial obligations; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if we need it, for working capital, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; 6 • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete. We do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet all our cash needs. Historically, we have made large capital expenditures in order to finance the expansion and upgrading of our distribution system. We have also purchased and will continue to purchase natural gas to store in inventory. Moreover, we have made several equity method investments and will continue to pursue other similar investments, all of which are and will be important to our revenues and profits. We have funded a portion of our cash needs for these purposes, as well as contributions to our employee pensions and benefit plans, through borrowings under credit arrangements and by offering new securities into the market. Our dependency on external sources of financing creates the risks that our profits could decrease as a result of high capital costs and that we may not be able to secure external sources of cash necessary to fund our operations and new investments on terms acceptable to us. As a result of cross-default provisions in our borrowing arrangements, we may be unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations in the event of a default on our part. The terms of our senior indebtedness, including our credit facility, contain cross-default provisions which provide that we will be in default under such agreements in the event of certain defaults under the indenture or other loan agreements. Accordingly, should an event of default occur under any of those agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under all of our debt agreements, obliged in such instance to satisfy all of our outstanding indebtedness and unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations simultaneously. In such an event, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us. We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom we do business. Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, counterparties with whom we do business could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for our services or fulfill their contractual obligations. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments or fulfill their contractual obligations on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment or failure of the counterparties to meet their contractual obligation could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. Our costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of our plan assets and depending upon the other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we could be required to fund our plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures or increase operating costs. We are subject to numerous federal and state environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and approvals. Compliance with these laws and regulations can require significant expenditures for clean-up costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties. Failure to comply may result in fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets. An overall economic downturn could negatively impact our earnings. A lower level of economic activity in our markets could result in a decline in energy consumption which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Additionally, a significant slow down in the housing market in our service area could restrict our future growth and negatively impact our earnings. 7 Our inability to attract and retain professional and technical employees could impact our earnings. Our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract and retain a technically skilled workforce. Without such a skilled workforce, our ability to provide quality service to our customers and meet our regulatory requirements will be challenged and this could negatively impact our earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 