risk factors described in this and other documents that DPAC files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including subsequent Current Reports on Form 8-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Form 10-QSB and Annual Reports on Form 10-K or Form 10-KSB. HOW TO OBTAIN DPAC TECHNOLOGIES SEC FILINGS All reports filed by DPAC Technologies with the SEC are available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. DPAC also provides copies of its Forms 8-K, 10-K, 10-Q, Proxy and Annual Report at no charge to investors upon request and makes electronic copies of its most recently filed reports available through its website at www.dpactech.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the SEC. PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS DPAC Technologies Corp., a California corporation (“DPAC”) through its wholly owned subsidiary, Quatech, Inc. (“Quatech”), designs, manufactures, and sells device connectivity and device networking solutions for a broad market. Quatech sells its products through a global network of distributors, system integrators, value added resellers, and original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”). The Company sells to customers in both domestic and foreign markets. 3 Table of Contents Merger On April 28, 2005, DPAC entered into a merger agreement, as subsequently amended, with Quatech for a transaction to be accounted for as a purchase under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The merger was approved by both Quatech and DPAC shareholders on February 23, 2006 and was consummated on February 28, 2006. For accounting purposes, the transaction is considered a “reverse merger” under which Quatech is considered the acquirer of DPAC. Accordingly, the purchase price was allocated among the fair values of the assets and liabilities of DPAC, while the historical results of Quatech are reflected in the results of the combined company. Except where otherwise noted, the financial information contained herein represents the results of operations of Quatech through the merger date, and combined Quatech and DPAC after the merger date of February 28, 2006. General Description of Business Quatech is an industry leader in device networking and connectivity solutions. Through design, manufacturing and support, Quatech maintains high standards of reliability and performance. Customers include OEM’s, value added resellers (VAR’s) and System Integrators, as well as end-users in many industries, including banking, retail/POS, access control, building automation and security, and energy management. Quatech is a leading supplier of data connectivity products to financial institutions, serving five of the top ten U.S. banks. DPAC was incorporated in California in September 1983, originally under the name Dense-Pac Microsystems, Inc., and changed its name to DPAC Technologies Corp. in August 2001. Quatech was incorporated in Ohio in 2000 as W.R. Acquisition, Inc. In July 2000, W.R. Acquisition acquired the assets and business of Quatech’s predecessor, Qua Tech, Inc., an Ohio corporation, and the company changed its name to Quatech, Inc. The Company has its worldwide headquarters in Hudson, OH. At the time of the acquisition in July 2000, Qua Tech, Inc. developed and marketed a data acquisition product line as well as a device connectivity product line. The data acquisition product line consisted of analog-to-digital converters, digital I/O hardware, signal conditioning hardware, and related software. The analog to digital converters as well as the digital I/O products were available for a number of computer bus architectures including ISA, PCI, and PC Card. The device connectivity product line included a number of multi-port serial adapters supporting asynchronous and synchronous transmissions. The products were also available on multiple computer bus architectures including ISA, PCI and PC Card. In addition, Qua Tech, Inc. had just completed the release of the initial USB to Serial product line. Subsequent to the acquisition, Quatech evaluated the market opportunities in both the data acquisition and device connectivity markets and made the determination to focus product development, along with sales and marketing activities, on the device connectivity product lines. All product development activities related to the data acquisition products were suspended. Sales and marketing activities in support of the data acquisition products were restricted to the support of a limited number of existing original equipment manufacturers and resellers. Quatech has continued to enhance the device connectivity product line through the development and release of additional products. These products have been developed as a reaction to both general market and specific customer demand. Significant new products released in this timeframe include a full line of universal PCI multi-port serial cards that support both 5V and 3.3V PCI slots, 8 and 16 port versions of the USB to Serial products, ruggedized multi-port, serial PC Card products, and multi-port serial Compact Flash products. 4 Table of Contents In 2001, Quatech initiated the development of its serial device server product line that would allow devices with traditional serial ports to be connected to a Local Area Network (LAN) through a TCP/IP connection. This product line was released for commercial availability in late 2003. Quatech has continued the development of this product line through the release of new product models, including products capable of connecting to the network through a wireless 802.11 interface. In October 2009, Quatech acquired the SocketSerial product line from Socket Mobile. The products in the SocketSerial product line consist of a CompactFlash serial card, a PC serial card, a PC dual serial card, and a PC quad serial card, all with fixed and removable cable models. Also included are a USB to Serial Adapter, USB to Ethernet Adapter and a license to sell the Cordless Serial Adapter. In addition, Quatech has added several of the North American and International distribution partners that had historically sold the SocketSerial products to its list of distribution partners for both its device and networking connectivity product lines. Products Quatech products can be categorized into two broad product lines: Our Device Connectivity products include: • Multi-port serial boards that add ports to desktop computers to allow for the connection of multiple peripherals with standard interfaces. These products are used in a variety of industries including banking, transportation management, kiosks, satellite communications, and retail point of sale. • Mobile products that add ports for laptop and handheld computers. These products include multi-port serial adapters, parallel port adapters, and Bluetooth products. • USB to Serial products that add standard serial ports to any computing environment through a USB port. These products address the need to add connectivity through a solution that is external to the computer. These products are used in several markets including retail point of sale and kiosks. Our Device Networking products include: • Serial device server products that connect peripherals to a local area network through a standard TCP/IP interface. This product line was introduced in 2003 and was extended in 2004 through the introduction of product models that connect to the local area network through a wireless 802.11 interface. • Industrial rated, embedded wireless modules that enable OEM customers to add standard 802.11 connectivity capabilities to their products. These modules address the needs of a number of industries including transportation, telematics, warehouse and logistic, and point of sale. Multi-port serial boards consists primarily of ISA bus and PCI bus products with 1, 2, 4, or 8 asynchronous serial ports as well as single port synchronous serial ports. Mobile products consists primarily of PC Card and Compact Flash products with 1, 2, or 4 asynchronous serial ports, PC Cards with a single synchronous serial port and a PC Card with a single parallel port. In March 2005, Quatech announced the introduction of new four and eight port multiple electrical interface (MEI) products to the device server product line. These products were released for general availability in May 2005. In March 2005, Quatech announced the introduction of six new wireless products to the device server product line. These products were released for general availability in March 2005. 5 Table of Contents In June 2004, Quatech announced its intention of developing a line of RFID reader products. A prototype was developed and demonstrated at the RFID World conference in April 2004. No further work has been done in the development of this product line since the development of the initial prototype. Quatech is continuing to monitor this market prior to committing the resources necessary to complete the development of this product line. AirborneTM wireless product line - the Airborne wireless product line was acquired with the merger of DPAC and Quatech and was originally announced by DPAC in September 2003 to address needs in the industrial wireless marketplace with a product known as the Airborne™ Wireless LAN Node module. The wireless product utilizes the 802.11 standard communications protocol (also known as “WiFi”) and targets the identified growth opportunities in embedded and plug-and-play applications, where we believe OEM customers as well as end-user customers have a need for an integrated local area network wireless connectivity solution. The wireless module includes a radio, base-band processor, an application processor and software for a “drop-in” web-enabled WiFi solution for connecting equipment, instrumentation and other devices to a local area network. An additional plug-and-play version of the product was developed and named AirborneDirect™. This product provides a web-enabled wireless connectivity solution for industrial equipment already in field use. Since, for the customer, there is no need to develop the software, or develop the radio frequency and communications expertise in-house, customers can realize reduced product development costs and a quick time-to-market. The AirborneDirect™ modules provide instant local area network and Internet connectivity, and connect through standard serial or Ethernet interfaces to a wide variety of applications. The Airborne modules are designed to provide wireless local area network and Internet connectivity in transportation, logistics, point of sale devices, medical equipment, and other industrial products and applications. The product was designed to address the needs of small to medium volume applications where time to market, industrial temperature compatibility and ease of implementation are key factors in the decision to implement a wireless connectivity solution. Equipment with an Airborne™ module, either embedded or attached, can be monitored and controlled by a handheld device, by a personal computer in a central location or over the Internet. This eliminates cabling, allows the equipment to be portable and provides an effective mode of supplying the non-PC device to a local area network and the Internet. For example, the module can be a solution for communicating remote sensing and data collection activities through the Internet to a user’s PC or network database software. Distribution, Marketing and Customers Quatech sells its products through a global network of distributors, system integrators, value added resellers, and original equipment manufacturers. Internationally, Quatech sells and markets its products through over 50 distributors and resellers in more than 30 countries. Quatech customers operate in a broad array of markets including retail point of sale, industrial automation, financial services and banking, telecommunications, transportation management, access control and security, gaming, data acquisition, and homeland security. All customers are supported from Quatech’s headquarters in Hudson, OH or from sales and technical support personnel located in Southern California. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2009. 6 Table of Contents International Sales The Company had export sales that accounted for 23% and 26% of total net sales in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Export sales were primarily to Canada and Western European and South American countries. Foreign sales are made in U.S dollars. Specific demand shifts by customers could result in significant changes in our export sales from year to year. All of Quatech’s assets are located in the United States. The Company does not own or operate any manufacturing operations or sales offices in foreign countries. Operations Quatech procures all parts and certain services involved in the production of its products, and subcontracts almost all of its product manufacturing to outside partners who specialize in such services. Quatech believes that this approach is optimal as it reduces fixed costs, extends manufacturing capacity and increases production flexibility. Quatech’s products are manufactured using both standard and semi-custom components. Most of these components are available from multiple sources in the domestic electronics distribution market. There are, however, several components that are provided only by single-source providers. The manufacturing for the wireless product is being done offshore. We are reliant on the offshore manufacturer to provide a quality product and meet our production requirements. We currently have a ten to fifteen week lead-time on various products and schedule the manufacturing requirements based on our sales forecasts. Changes to the sales forecast could affect the inventory level of the wireless product. There is currently no second source for the production of the wireless module, but Quatech does have the right to transfer production to another manufacturer if there are problems with the manufacturer. If Quatech were required to change its primary offshore manufacturer, it would require significant time. This may lead to not having sufficient inventory to meet pending sales requirements. We believe that the offshore manufacturer is of sufficient size and resources to meet any production requirements that we may have, including any foreseeable increased volume needs for the wireless products. Our reliance on certain single-source and limited-source components exposes us to quality control issues if these suppliers experience a failure in their production process or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements. A failure in single-source or limited-source components or products could force us to repair or replace a product utilizing replacement components. If we cannot obtain comparable replacements or effectively retune or redesign our products, we could lose customer orders or incur additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations. Research and Development Our future success will depend in major part on our ability to develop new products or product enhancements to keep up with technological advances and to meet customer needs. Our research and development efforts for 2010 will focus on developing new wireless and related products and expanding our product offerings. 7 Table of Contents Quatech’s engineering, research and development expenses were $775,000 in 2009 and $836,000 in 2008. Additionally, the Company capitalized, $29,000 and $162,000 of software development costs incurred in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Quatech does not rely upon patent protection to protect its competitive position. The nature of the market Quatech competes in places a heavy emphasis on the ability of Quatech to service and support the customer along with the reliability of the product’s design and manufacturing. Engineering activities consist of the design and development of new products and the redesign of existing products to keep current with changes in the industry and products offered by the Company’s competitors. The Company also designs and develops new products for specific customers and such activities are often conducted in partnership with our customers. We are currently involved in research and development for new software and hardware approaches for utilization in our wireless product line, as well as the development of package level products that may incorporate our wireless products as part of the overall system design. Our product development activities are solution driven, and our goal is to create technological advancements by working with each customer to develop advanced cost-effective products that solve each customer’s specific requirements. However, we, for the most part, develop products within the 802.11 standard and infrequently might develop patentable inventions. The 802.11 standards on which our products are based are defined by IEEE and designed to insure interoperability of all products purporting to meet the standard. Service and Warranty We offer warranties of various lengths, which differ by customer and product type and typically cover defects in materials and workmanship. We perform warranty and other maintenance services for our products in Ohio and at our contract manufacturer overseas. Competitive Conditions Quatech competes in the device connectivity and device networking markets. Both of these markets are characterized by a broad number of competitors, both domestic and foreign, of varying size. Quatech competes on the basis of providing reliable products, marketed at a mid-level price compared to other competitive offerings. Quatech emphasizes customer service and support as a key differentiator. Quatech’s ability to meet rapid delivery requirements is a key element of our ability to service the customer. This requires us to carry significant amounts of inventory to meet our customer’s forecasted needs. As the markets for multi-port serial adapters in both the PC Card form factor and PCI form factor mature, Quatech has placed emphasis on the development and marketing of products that address the growth markets of multi-port USB to serial adapters and device servers that connect devices to Ethernet Local Area Networks. Quatech believes that these emerging product lines are significant to its future growth. We have competition from other wireless products using 802.11 technology. There are also other companies that offer similar products with the same or other configurations and radio communication protocols, including cellular, Bluetooth and proprietary radio solutions that will compete with our Airborne wireless module. The primary competitors in providing embedded 802.11 wireless solutions to OEM customers are Lantronix Inc. and Digi International Inc. Other competitors may provide alternative radio protocols such as cellular or other proprietary technologies for sale to OEM’s. These competitors include Wavecom SA, Maxstream, and Skybility. Other companies such as Symbol Technologies Inc. and Cisco Systems Inc. make wireless solutions that are not primarily aimed at OEM customers, but may be used in those applications and have been in certain circumstances. Many of these companies in the wireless market have greater financial, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. 8 Table of Contents Backlog As of December 31, 2009 Quatech had backlog orders which management believed to be firm commitments of approximately $540,000. As of December 31, 2008 Quatech had backlog orders which management believed to be firm commitments of approximately $300,000. All of these orders pending as of December 31, 2009 are expected to ship in calendar year 2010. Backlog as of any particular date is not necessarily indicative of Quatech’s future sales trends. Product orders in our backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation at the option of the purchaser without significant penalty. While we regularly review our backlog of orders to ensure that it adequately reflects product orders expected to ship within the one year period, we cannot make any guarantee that such orders will actually be shipped or that such orders will not be delayed or cancelled in the future. We make regular adjustments to our backlog as customer delivery schedules change and in response to changes in our production schedule. Accordingly, we stress that backlog as of any particular date should not be considered a reliable indicator of sales for any future period and our revenues in any given period may depend substantially on orders placed in that period. Personnel As of December 31, 2009, Quatech employed 19 full time employees, 16 of which are located at Quatech’s facility in Hudson, Ohio, 3 of which are located in Southern California. Of the 19 full-time employees, 3 were in general and administration, 6 were in sales, marketing and customer support, 6 were in engineering, research and development, and 4 were in operations and manufacturing. The Company occasionally hires part-time employees. The Company believes that it has a good relationship with its employees and no employees are represented by a union. ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statements Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in the Form 10-K. The risk and uncertainties described below are not the only one facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company may also impair the Company’s business and operations. Statements in this Report that are not historical facts, including all statements about our business strategy or expectations, or information about new and existing products and technologies or market characteristics and conditions, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These include, but are not limited to, the factors described below which could cause actual results to differ from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. 9 Table of Contents Potential Future Insufficiency of Capital and Financial Resources Our financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The report of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 contains an explanatory paragraph noting that certain conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to establish profitable operations and to raise additional financing. We have been taking steps intended to achieve positive cash flows, including the acquisition of a product line and reduction and management of our operating costs. Our current senior credit facility will mature and become payable in July of 2010, and we will be required to refinance this credit facility. We may require additional financing to meet our ongoing obligations through the end of the year ending December 31, 2010. Our continued ability to obtain financing when needed may be unavailable if and when needed. If we obtain additional financing, the terms and conditions of the financing could have material adverse effects on the market price of the common stock. Problems that we could encounter because of insufficient capital include but are not limited to additional costs and expenses, including higher interest rates and the acceleration of maturity dates on other debt financing. Some additional costs might be associated with complying with or defending legal actions by or for creditors, or paying fees, charges or costs of creditors. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of assets and liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Product Development and Technological Change The wireless connectivity industry is characterized by rapid technological change and is highly competitive with respect to timely product innovation. Our wireless products are subject to obsolescence or price erosion because competitors are continuously introducing technologies with the same or greater capacity as our technology. As a result, wireless products may have a product life of not more than one to three years. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new wireless products and product enhancements to keep up with technological advances and to meet customer needs. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development, firmware or software development, or introduction of wireless technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the Company could incur additional operating costs with the introduction of new products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in planned product development or marketing efforts, or that we will have adequate financial or technical resources for planned product development and promotion. Uncertainty of Market Acceptance or Profitability of New Products The introduction of new products, such as our product for the wireless marketplace, could require the expenditure of an unknown amount of funds for research and development, tooling, software development, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing. In order to successfully develop products, we will need to successfully anticipate market needs and may need to overcome rapid technological change and competition. In order to achieve high volume production, we will need to out-source production to third parties or enter into licensing arrangements and be successful in the management of sub-contractors overseas. We are inexperienced in the wireless industry, and our plans in that industry are unproven. We have limited marketing capabilities and resources and are dependent upon internal sales and marketing personnel and a network of independent sales representatives for the marketing and sale of our products. There can be no assurance that our products will achieve or maintain market acceptance, result in increased revenues, or be profitable. Parts Shortages and Over-Supplies and Dependence on Suppliers The electronics and components industry is characterized by periodic shortages or over-supplies of parts that have in the past and may in the future negatively affect our operations. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers and contractors for wireless and semiconductor devices used in our products, and we have no long-term supply contracts with any of them. 10 Table of Contents Due to the cyclical nature of these industries and competitive conditions, we, or our sub-contractors, may experience difficulties in meeting our supply requirements in the future. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries of parts, either due to the loss of a supplier or industry-wide shortages, could delay shipments of our products, increase our cost of goods sold and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Credit Risks and Dependence on Major Customers We grant credit to customers in a variety of commercial industries. Credit is extended based on an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition and collateral is not required. Estimated credit losses are provided for in the financial statements. Our inability to collect receivables from any larger customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Intellectual Property Rights Our ability to compete effectively is dependent on our proprietary know-how and our ability to develop and apply technology. We have applied for patents in the wireless area. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any issued patents will afford our products any competitive advantage or that any of our products will not be challenged or circumvented by third parties, or that patents issued to others will not adversely affect the sales, development or commercialization of our present or future products. We are involved from time to time in claims and litigation over intellectual property rights, which may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. The wireless industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We believe that it may be necessary, from time to time, to initiate litigation against one or more third parties to preserve our intellectual property rights. In addition, from time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights, which claims could result in litigation. Such litigation would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of an adverse result in such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of certain products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringed technology. Such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license or our failure to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms could cause us to incur substantial costs and suspend manufacturing products using the infringed technology. If we obtain a license, we would likely be required to make royalty payments for sales under the license. Such payments would increase our costs of revenues and reduce our gross profit. In addition, any litigation, whether as plaintiff or as defendant, would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is ultimately determined in our favor. In addition, the results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. 11 Table of Contents Management of Growth or Diversification Successful expansion or diversification of the Company’s operations will depend on the ability to obtain new customers, to attract and retain skilled management and other personnel, to secure adequate sources of supply on commercially reasonable terms and to successfully manage new product introductions. To manage growth or diversification effectively, we will have to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems, procedures and controls. As we expand or diversify, we may from time to time experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to satisfy customer demand in a timely fashion. Failure to manage growth or diversification effectively could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Competition There are companies that offer or are in the process of developing similar types of wireless products, including Lantronix, Digi-International and others. We could also experience competition from established and emerging network companies. There can be no assurance that our products will be competitive with existing or future products, or that we will be able to establish or maintain a profitable price structure for our products. We expect to face competition from existing competitors and new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative products, which may be less costly or provide additional features. In addition, some of our significant suppliers are also our competitors, many of whom have the ability to manufacture competitive products at lower costs as a result of their higher levels of integration. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. Competition may arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors or third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors will emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We expect our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new products that may offer greater performance and improved pricing, any of which could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to or future generations of competitive products that may render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive. Product Liability In the course of our business, we may be subject to claims for product liability for which our insurance coverage is excluded or inadequate. Variability of Gross Margin Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 41% for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 43% for the year ended December 31, 2008. In the first quarter of 2009, we sold our manufacturing capability to one of our contract manufacturers. This resulted in lower fixed costs but may negatively impact future gross margins due to higher variable costs. Any change in the gross margins can typically be attributed to the mix of products, average selling prices, revenue levels, the use of outside contract manufacturers, and increases to our fixed cost structure. As we market our products, the product mix may change over time and result in changes in the gross margin. 12 Table of Contents We expect that our net sales and gross margin may vary significantly based on these and other factors, including the mix of products sold and the manufacturing services provided, the channels through which our products are sold, changes in product selling prices and component costs, the level of manufacturing efficiencies achieved and pricing by competitors. The selling prices of our products may decline depending upon the price changes of our cost of sales, which would have a material adverse effect on our net sales and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or increase net sales will be highly dependent upon our ability to increase unit sales volumes of existing products and to introduce and sell new products in quantities sufficient to compensate for the anticipated declines in selling prices. Declining product-selling prices may also materially and adversely affect our gross margin unless we are able to reduce our cost per unit to offset declines in product selling prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase unit sales volumes, introduce and sell new products or reduce our cost per unit. We also expect that our business may experience significant seasonality to the extent it sells a material portion of our products in Europe (due to vacation cycles) and to the extent, our exposure to the personal computer market remains significant. Decline of Demand for Product Due to Downturn of Related Industries We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to factors affecting the wireless, computer, telecommunications and networking industries. From time to time, each of these industries has experienced downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. A decline or significant shortfall in growth in any one of these industries or a technology shift, could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products, and therefore, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our net sales and results of operations will not be materially and adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from individual customers or cyclical changes in the wireless, computer, telecommunications, networking or other industries utilizing our products. Our suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers could become competitors Many of our customers internally design and/or manufacture their own wireless communications network products. These customers also continuously evaluate whether to manufacture their own wireless communications network products or utilize contract manufacturers to produce their own internal designs. Certain of our customers and prospective customers regularly produce or design wireless communications network products in an attempt to replace products manufactured by us. We believe that this practice will continue. In the event that our customers manufacture or design their own wireless communications network products, such customers could reduce or eliminate their purchases of our products, which would result in reduced revenues and would adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. Wireless infrastructure equipment manufacturers with internal manufacturing capabilities, including many of our customers, could also sell wireless communications network products externally to other manufacturers, thereby competing directly with us. In addition, our suppliers or contract manufacturers may decide to produce competing products directly for our customers and, effectively, compete against us. If, for any reason, our customers produce their wireless communications network products internally, increase the percentage of their internal production, require us to participate in joint venture manufacturing with them, engage our suppliers or contract manufacturers to manufacture competing products, or otherwise compete directly against us, our revenues would decrease, which would adversely impact our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents International Sales International sales may be subject to certain risks, including changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, timing and availability of export licenses, political and economic instability, difficulties in accounts receivable collections, natural disasters, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations, difficulties in managing distributors, difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for telecommunications and other products, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, potentially adverse tax consequences and uncertainties relative to regional, political and economic circumstances. Moreover, and as a result of currency changes and other factors, our competitors may have the ability to manufacture competitive products in Asia or otherwise at lower cost than we would incur to have them manufactured. We are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether the United States or other countries will implement quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Future international activity may result in foreign currency denominated sales. Gains and losses on the conversion to United States dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. Some of our customers’ purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from United States laws. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce any rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Limited Experience in Business Combinations or Acquisitions We may pursue a strategy of acquiring additional companies or businesses. We may pursue selective acquisitions to complement our internal growth. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses, product lines and technologies. In addition, the attention of our management team may be diverted from our core business if we undertake an acquisition. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including, among others: • Problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • Costs associated with the acquisition; • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • Sudden market changes; • Risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • Potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations; and • Potential litigation arising from the acquired company’s operations before the acquisition. 14 Table of Contents Our inability to overcome problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions could divert the attention of management, utilize scarce corporate resources and harm our business. In addition, we are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Cyclical Nature of Wireless and Electronics Industries The wireless and the electronics industries are highly cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both the producing companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, any upturn in these industries could result in increased demand for, and possible shortages of, components we use to manufacture and assemble our products. Such shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to risks of excess inventory or inventory carrying costs If our contract manufacturer is unable to respond promptly and timely to changes in customer demand, we may be unable to produce enough products to respond to sudden increases in demand resulting in lost revenues, or alternatively, in the case of order cancellations or decreases in demand, we may be liable for excess or obsolete inventory or cancellation charges resulting from contractual purchase commitments that we have with our contract manufacturers. We regularly provide rolling forecasts of our requirements to our contract manufacturers for planning purposes, pursuant to our agreements, a portion of which is binding upon us. Additionally, we are committed to accept delivery on the forecasted terms for a portion of the rolling forecast. Cancellations of orders or changes to the forecasts provided to any of our contract manufacturers may result in cancellation costs payable by us. By using contract manufacturers, our ability to directly control the use of all inventory is reduced because we do not have full operating control over their operations. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our contract manufacturers and manage the costs associated with our contract manufacturers, we may be required to pay inventory carrying costs or purchase excess inventory. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to utilize such excess inventory in a timely manner, and are unable to sell excess components or products due to their customized nature, our operating results and liquidity would be negatively impacted. Product Returns and Order Cancellation To the extent we have products manufactured in anticipation of future demand and that does not materialize, or in the event a customer cancels outstanding orders, we could experience an unanticipated increase in our inventory. In addition, while we may not be contractually obligated to accept returned products, and have typically not done so in the past, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept returns in order to maintain good relations with our customers. Product returns would increase our inventory and reduce our revenues. We have had to write-down inventory in the past for reasons such as obsolescence, excess quantities and declines in market value below our costs. 15 Table of Contents We have no long-term volume commitments from our customers that are not subject to cancellation by the customer. Sales of our products are made through individual purchase orders and, in certain cases, are made under master agreements governing the terms and conditions of the relationships. Customers may change, cancel or delay orders with limited or no penalties. We have experienced cancellations of orders and fluctuations in order levels from period-to-period and we expect to continue to experience similar cancellations and fluctuations in the future that could result in fluctuations in our revenues. Additional Capital Funding May Impair Value of Investment We may need to raise additional capital. Our potential means to raise capital potentially include public or private equity offerings or debt financings. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors including our research, development, sales and marketing activities, acquisitions, and other costs. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or will be available on terms favorable to us. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution and the new equity securities may have greater rights, preferences or privileges than our existing common stock. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing debt, our shareholders would incur additional interest expenses that would reduce earnings and cash flow of the Company. Also, plans to borrow and repay the debt are subject to numerous risks. In the event the debt is not repaid as and when due, additional costs and debt would be incurred to satisfy and refinance the obligation, and the debt therefore could grow. If a company’s debt coverage costs are excessive, its equity can lose value for reasons including a decline in creditworthiness. Geographic Concentration of Operation Our wireless product line is manufactured overseas in Taiwan, with some contract manufacturing conducted locally. Due to the geographic concentration, a disruption of the manufacturing operations resulting from sustained process abnormalities, human error, government intervention or natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires or floods could cause us to cease or limit our sub-contractors’ operations and consequently harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, waste water discharge, waste storage, treatment and disposal, and remediation of releases of hazardous materials. Our failure to comply with present and future requirements could harm our ability to continue manufacturing our products. Such requirements could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. The imposition of additional or more stringent environmental requirements, the results of future testing at our facilities, or a determination that we are potentially responsible for remediation at other sites where problems are not presently known to us, could result in expenses in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. Key Personnel The Company may fail to attract or retain the qualified technical sales, marketing and managerial personnel required to operate its business successfully. DPAC’s future success depends, in part, upon ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. Personnel with the necessary expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with proper skills is intense. Also, attrition in personnel can result from, among other things, changes related to acquisitions, as well as retirement or disability. The Company may not be able to retain existing key technical, sales, marketing and managerial employees or be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel in the future. If the Company is unable to retain existing key employees or is unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, business, financial condition and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Stock Price Volatility and Market Overhang Existing shareholders may suffer with each adverse change in the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock will be affected by a variety of factors in the future. Most obviously, our shares may suffer adversely if and when our future operating results are below the expectations of investors. The stock market in general, and the market for shares of technology companies in particular, experiences extreme price fluctuations. Our common stock market price is made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading is sporadic, significant price movement can be caused by a relatively small number of shares. Another factor that may affect our common stock price will be the number of our outstanding shares and, at times, the number and prices of warrants that could be exercised. At December 31, 2009, we have reserved a total of 12,304,000 shares for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants. Holders of our warrants hold registration rights that are intended to make the warrant shares immediately available for public sale upon exercise, and warrants may be exercised at any time until their expiration. It is foreseeable that when a warrant has an intrinsic value, which is usually called being “in-the-money,” the holder may desire to exercise the warrant and immediately sell the stock. If our common stock trades at prices higher than a warrant’s exercise price, the shares can be sold at a profit. At such times, sales of large numbers of shares received upon exercises of warrants might materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Other Contingent Contractual Obligations The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying balance sheets. However, during its normal course of business, the Company has made certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees under which it may be required to make payments in relation to certain transactions. These include indemnities to all directors and officers pertaining to claims on account of acting as a director or officer. In the event that the Company has, or is claimed to have, any indemnification obligation related to current or former directors or officers, the costs and expenses could be material to the Company and the amount of cost and expense of such an obligation would not necessarily be limited whatsoever. Other indemnities are made to various lessors in connection with facility leases for certain claims arising from such facility or lease; other indemnities are made to vendors and service providers pertaining to claims based on the negligence or willful misconduct of the Company; and other indemnities involve the accuracy of representations and warranties in certain contracts and are made in favor of the other contractual party. The duration of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees varies and, in certain cases, may be indefinite. The majority of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential for future payments the Company could be obligated to make. The Company may also issue a guarantee in the form of a standby letter of credit as security for contingent liabilities under certain customer contracts, which would customarily be for a limited amount. Product warranty costs are not significant. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 17 Table of Contents 