ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statements Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in the Form 10-K. The risk and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company may also impair the Company’s business and operations. Statements in this Report that are not historical facts, including all statements about our business strategy or expectations, or information about new and existing products and technologies or market characteristics and conditions, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These include, but are not limited to, the factors described below which could cause actual results to differ from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. 9 Table of Contents Potential Future Insufficiency of Capital and Financial Resources We required additional financing to meet our ongoing obligations through the end of the year ending December 31, 2008 as referred to above. Despite the refinancing, our continued ability to obtain financing when needed may be unavailable if and when needed. If we obtain additional financing, the terms and conditions of the financing could have material adverse effects on the market price of the common stock. Problems that we could encounter because of insufficient capital are numerous, but include additional costs and expenses, including higher interest rates and the acceleration of maturity dates on other debt financing. Some additional costs might be associated with complying with or defending legal actions by or for creditors, or paying fees, charges or costs of creditors. Other costs may include relative inefficiencies or loss of productivity, which may be reflected in the financial results. We could lose lenders, suppliers, vendors, key employees and service providers due to concerns about the Company’s liquidity. Many costs and fees could become higher as the Company loses liquidity, and this could accelerate the Company’s cash consumption rate. The combined effect of these problems could lead the Company to have to cease operations and/or file for bankruptcy protection. Product Development and Technological Change The wireless connectivity industry is characterized by rapid technological change and is highly competitive with respect to timely product innovation. Our wireless products are subject to obsolescence or price erosion because competitors are continuously introducing technologies with the same or greater capacity as our technology. As a result, wireless products may have a product life of not more than one to three years. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new wireless products and product enhancements to keep up with technological advances and to meet customer needs. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development, firmware or software development, or introduction of wireless technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the Company could incur additional operating costs with the introduction of new products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in planned product development or marketing efforts, or that we will have adequate financial or technical resources for planned product development and promotion. Uncertainty of Market Acceptance or Profitability of New Products The introduction of new products, such as our product for the wireless marketplace, could require the expenditure of an unknown amount of funds for research and development, tooling, software development, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing. In order to successfully develop products, we will need to successfully anticipate market needs and may need to overcome rapid technological change and competition. In order to achieve high volume production, we will need to out-source production to third parties or enter into licensing arrangements and be successful in the management of sub-contractors overseas. We are inexperienced in the wireless industry, and our plans in that industry are unproven. We have limited marketing capabilities and resources and are dependent upon internal sales and marketing personnel and a network of independent sales representatives for the marketing and sale of our products. There can be no assurance that our products will achieve or maintain market acceptance, result in increased revenues, or be profitable. 10 Table of Contents Parts Shortages and Over-Supplies and Dependence on Suppliers The electronics and components industry is characterized by periodic shortages or over-supplies of parts that have in the past and may in the future negatively affect our operations. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers and contractors for wireless and semiconductor devices used in our products, and we have no long-term supply contracts with any of them. Due to the cyclical nature of these industries and competitive conditions, we, or our sub-contractors, may experience difficulties in meeting our supply requirements in the future. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries of parts, either due to the loss of a supplier or industry-wide shortages, could delay shipments of our products, increase our cost of goods sold and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Credit Risks We will be granting credit to customers in a variety of commercial industries. Credit is extended based on an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition and collateral is not required. Estimated credit losses are provided for in the financial statements. Our inability to collect receivables from any larger customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Intellectual Property Rights Our ability to compete effectively is dependent on our proprietary know-how and our ability to develop and apply technology. We have applied for patents in the wireless area. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any issued patents will afford our products any competitive advantage or that any of our products will not be challenged or circumvented by third parties, or that patents issued to others will not adversely affect the sales, development or commercialization of our present or future products. We are involved from time to time in claims and litigation over intellectual property rights, which may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. The wireless industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We believe that it may be necessary, from time to time, to initiate litigation against one or more third parties to preserve our intellectual property rights. In addition, from time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights, which claims could result in litigation. Such litigation would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of an adverse result in such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of certain products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringed technology. Such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license or our failure to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms could cause us to incur substantial costs and suspend manufacturing products using the infringed technology. If we obtain a license, we would likely be required to make royalty payments for sales under the license. Such payments would increase our costs of revenues and reduce our gross profit. In addition, any litigation, whether as plaintiff or as defendant, would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is ultimately determined in our favor. In addition, the results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. 11 Table of Contents Management of Growth or Diversification Successful expansion or diversification of the Company’s operations will depend on the ability to obtain new customers, to attract and retain skilled management and other personnel, to secure adequate sources of supply on commercially reasonable terms and to successfully manage new product introductions. To manage growth or diversification effectively, we will have to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems, procedures and controls. As we expand or diversify, we may from time to time experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to satisfy customer demand in a timely fashion. Failure to manage growth or diversification effectively could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Competition There are companies that offer or are in the process of developing similar types of wireless products, including Lantronix, Digi-International and others. We could also experience competition from established and emerging network companies. There can be no assurance that our products will be competitive with existing or future products, or that we will be able to establish or maintain a profitable price structure for our products. We expect to face competition from existing competitors and new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative products, which may be less costly or provide additional features. In addition, some of our significant suppliers are also our competitors, many of whom have the ability to manufacture competitive products at lower costs as a result of their higher levels of integration. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. Competition may arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors or third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors will emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We expect our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new products that may offer greater performance and improved pricing, any of which could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to or future generations of competitive products that may render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive. Product Liability In the course of our business, we may be subject to claims for product liability for which our insurance coverage is excluded or inadequate. 12 Table of Contents Variability of Gross Margin Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 43% for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to 42% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Any change in the gross margins can typically be attributed to the mix of products, average selling prices, revenue levels, the use of outside contract manufacturers, and increases to our fixed cost structure. As we market our products, the product mix may change over time and result in changes in the gross margin. We expect that our net sales and gross margin may vary significantly based on these and other factors, including the mix of products sold and the manufacturing services provided, the channels through which our products are sold, changes in product selling prices and component costs, the level of manufacturing efficiencies achieved and pricing by competitors. The selling prices of our products may decline depending upon the price changes of our cost of sales, which would have a material adverse effect on our net sales and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or increase net sales will be highly dependent upon our ability to increase unit sales volumes of existing products and to introduce and sell new products in quantities sufficient to compensate for the anticipated declines in selling prices. Declining product-selling prices may also materially and adversely affect our gross margin unless we are able to reduce our cost per unit to offset declines in product selling prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase unit sales volumes, introduce and sell new products or reduce our cost per unit. We also expect that our business may experience significant seasonality to the extent it sells a material portion of our products in Europe (due to vacation cycles) and to the extent, our exposure to the personal computer market remains significant. Our average sales prices have historically declined, and we anticipate that the average sales prices for our products will continue to decline and could negatively impact our gross profit margins. Decline of Demand for Product Due to Downturn of Related Industries We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to factors affecting the wireless, computer, telecommunications and networking industries. From time to time, each of these industries has experienced downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. A decline or significant shortfall in growth in any one of these industries or a technology shift, could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products, and therefore, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our net sales and results of operations will not be materially and adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from individual customers or cyclical changes in the wireless, computer, telecommunications, networking or other industries utilizing our products. Our suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers could become competitors Many of our customers internally design and/or manufacture their own wireless communications network products. These customers also continuously evaluate whether to manufacture their own wireless communications network products or utilize contract manufacturers to produce their own internal designs. Certain of our customers and prospective customers regularly produce or design wireless communications network products in an attempt to replace products manufactured by us. We believe that this practice will continue. In the event that our customers manufacture or design their own wireless communications network products, such customers could reduce or eliminate their purchases of our products, which would result in reduced revenues and would adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. Wireless infrastructure equipment manufacturers with internal manufacturing capabilities, including many of our customers, could also sell wireless communications network products externally to other manufacturers, thereby competing directly with us. In addition, our suppliers or contract manufacturers may decide to produce competing products directly for our customers and, effectively, compete against us. If, for any reason, our customers produce their wireless communications network products internally, increase the percentage of their internal production, require us to participate in joint venture manufacturing with them, engage our suppliers or contract manufacturers to manufacture competing products, or otherwise compete directly against us, our revenues would decrease, which would adversely impact our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents International Sales International sales may be subject to certain risks, including changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, timing and availability of export licenses, political and economic instability, difficulties in accounts receivable collections, natural disasters, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations, difficulties in managing distributors, difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for telecommunications and other products, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, potentially adverse tax consequences and uncertainties relative to regional, political and economic circumstances. Moreover, and as a result of currency changes and other factors, our competitors may have the ability to manufacture competitive products in Asia or otherwise at lower cost than we would incur to have them manufactured. We are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether the United States or other countries will implement quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Future international activity may result in foreign currency denominated sales. Gains and losses on the conversion to United States dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. Some of our customers’ purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from United States laws. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce any rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Limited Experience in Business Combinations or Acquisitions We may pursue a strategy of acquiring additional companies or businesses. We may pursue selective acquisitions to complement our internal growth. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses, product lines and technologies. In addition, the attention of our management team may be diverted from our core business if we undertake an acquisition. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including, among others: • Problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • Costs associated with the acquisition; • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • Sudden market changes; • Risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • Potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations; and • Potential litigation arising from the acquired company’s operations before the acquisition. 14 Table of Contents Our inability to overcome problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions could divert the attention of management, utilize scarce corporate resources and harm our business. In addition, we are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Cyclical Nature of Wireless and Electronics Industries The wireless and the electronics industries are highly cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both the producing companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, any upturn in these industries could result in increased demand for, and possible shortages of, components we use to manufacture and assemble our products. Such shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to risks of excess inventory or inventory carrying costs If our contract manufacturer is unable to respond promptly and timely to changes in customer demand, we may be unable to produce enough products to respond to sudden increases in demand resulting in lost revenues, or alternatively, in the case of order cancellations or decreases in demand, we may be liable for excess or obsolete inventory or cancellation charges resulting from contractual purchase commitments that we have with our contract manufacturers. We regularly provide rolling forecasts of our requirements to our contract manufacturers for planning purposes, pursuant to our agreements, a portion of which is binding upon us. Additionally, we are committed to accept delivery on the forecasted terms for a portion of the rolling forecast. Cancellations of orders or changes to the forecasts provided to any of our contract manufacturers may result in cancellation costs payable by us. By using contract manufacturers, our ability to directly control the use of all inventory is reduced because we do not have full operating control over their operations. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our contract manufacturers and manage the costs associated with our contract manufacturers, we may be required to pay inventory carrying costs or purchase excess inventory. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to utilize such excess inventory in a timely manner, and are unable to sell excess components or products due to their customized nature, our operating results and liquidity would be negatively impacted. 15 Table of Contents Product Returns and Order Cancellation To the extent we have products manufactured in anticipation of future demand and that does not materialize, or in the event a customer cancels outstanding orders, we could experience an unanticipated increase in our inventory. In addition, while we may not be contractually obligated to accept returned products, and have typically not done so in the past, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept returns in order to maintain good relations with our customers. Product returns would increase our inventory and reduce our revenues. We have had to write-down inventory in the past for reasons such as obsolescence, excess quantities and declines in market value below our costs. We have no long-term volume commitments from our customers that are not subject to cancellation by the customer. Sales of our products are made through individual purchase orders and, in certain cases, are made under master agreements governing the terms and conditions of the relationships. Customers may change, cancel or delay orders with limited or no penalties. We have experienced cancellations of orders and fluctuations in order levels from period-to-period and we expect to continue to experience similar cancellations and fluctuations in the future that could result in fluctuations in our revenues. Additional Capital Funding May Impair Value of Shareholders’ Investment We may need to raise additional capital. Our potential means to raise capital potentially include public or private equity offerings or debt financings. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors including our research, development, sales and marketing activities, acquisitions, and other costs. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or will be available on terms favorable to us. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution and the new equity securities may have greater rights, preferences or privileges than our existing common stock. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing debt, we would incur additional interest expenses that may reduce earnings and cash flows of the Company. Also, plans to borrow and repay the debt are subject to numerous risks. In the event the debt is not repaid as and when due, additional costs and debt would be required to satisfy and refinance the obligation, and the debt therefore could grow. If a company’s debt coverage costs are excessive, its equity can lose value for reasons including a decline in creditworthiness. Geographic Concentration of Operation Our wireless product line is manufactured overseas in Taiwan, with some contract manufacturing conducted locally. Due to the geographic concentration, a disruption of the manufacturing operations resulting from sustained process abnormalities, human error, government intervention or natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires or floods could cause us to cease or limit our sub-contractors’ operations and consequently harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, waste water discharge, waste storage, treatment and disposal, and remediation of releases of hazardous materials. Our failure to comply with present and future requirements could harm our ability to continue manufacturing our products. Such requirements could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. The imposition of additional or more stringent environmental requirements, the results of future testing at our facilities, or a determination that we are potentially responsible for remediation at other sites where problems are not presently known to us, could result in expenses in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. Many of these regulations will not be applicable to us after December 31, 2008, as we will no longer be manufacturing our products. 16 Table of Contents Key Personnel The Company may fail to attract or retain the qualified technical sales, marketing and managerial personnel required to operate its business successfully. DPAC’s future success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. Personnel with the necessary expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with proper skills is intense. Also, attrition in personnel can result from, among other things, changes related to acquisitions, as well as retirement or disability. The Company may not be able to retain existing key technical, sales, marketing and managerial employees or be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel in the future. If the Company is unable to retain existing key employees or is unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, business, financial condition and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Stock Price Volatility and Market Overhang Existing shareholders may suffer with each adverse change in the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock will be affected by a variety of factors in the future. Most obviously, our shares may suffer adversely if and when our future operating results are below the expectations of investors. The stock market in general, and the market for shares of technology companies in particular, experiences extreme price fluctuations. Our common stock market price is made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading is sporadic, significant price movement can be caused by a relatively small number of shares. Another factor that may affect our common stock price will be the number of our outstanding shares and, at times, the number and prices of warrants that could be exercised. At December 31, 2008, we have reserved a total of 11,379,000 shares for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants. Holders of our warrants hold registration rights that are intended to make the warrant shares immediately available for public sale upon exercise, and warrants may be exercised at any time until their expiration. It is foreseeable that when a warrant has an intrinsic value, which is usually called being “in-the-money,” the holder may desire to exercise the warrant and immediately sell the stock. If our common stock trades at prices higher than a warrant’s exercise price, the shares can be sold at a profit. At such times, sales of large numbers of shares received upon exercises of warrants might materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Other Contingent Contractual Obligations The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying balance sheets. However, during its normal course of business, the Company has made certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees under which it may be required to make payments in relation to certain transactions. These include indemnities to all directors and officers pertaining to claims on account of acting as a director or officer. In the event that the Company has, or is claimed to have, any indemnification obligation related to current or former directors or officers, the costs and expenses could be material to the Company and the amount of cost and expense of such an obligation would not necessarily be limited whatsoever. Other indemnities are made to various lessors in connection with facility leases for certain claims arising from such facility or lease; other indemnities are made to vendors and service providers pertaining to claims based on the negligence or willful misconduct of the Company; and other indemnities involve the accuracy of representations and warranties in certain contracts and are made in favor of the other contractual party. The duration of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees varies and, in certain cases, may be indefinite. The majority of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential for future payments the Company could be obligated to make. The Company may also issue a guarantee in the form of a standby letter of credit as security for contingent liabilities under certain customer contracts, which would customarily be for a limited amount. Product warranty costs are not significant. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 