ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.Certain risks and uncertainties that could have a significant impact on PGE’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or that may cause the Company’s actual results to vary from the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, include, but are not limited to, those set forth below.Recovery of PGE’s costs is subject to regulatory review and approval, and the inability to recover costs may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.The prices that PGE charges for its retail services, as authorized by the OPUC, are a major factor in determining the Company’s operating income, financial position, liquidity, and credit ratings. As a general matter, the Company seeks to recover in customer prices most of the costs incurred in connection with the operation of its business, including, among other things, costs related to capital projects (such as the construction of new facilities or the modification of existing facilities), the costs of compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements and the costs of damage from storms and other natural disasters. However, there can be no assurance that such recovery will be granted. The OPUC has the authority to disallow the recovery of any costs that it considers imprudently incurred. Although the OPUC is required to establish customer prices that are fair, just and reasonable, it has significant discretion in the interpretation of this standard.In February 2013, PGE filed with the OPUC a 2014 General Rate Case with a 2014 test year. For additional information regarding the 2014 General Rate Case, see the Overview section of Item 7.—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In both PGE’s 2009 and 2011 general rate cases, overall price increases approved by the OPUC were less than the Company’s initial proposals. Under such circumstances, PGE attempts to manage its costs at levels consistent with the reduced price increases. However, if the Company is unable to do so, or if such cost management results in increased operational risk, the Company’s financial and operating results could be adversely affected. Economic conditions that result in reduced demand for electricity and impair the financial stability of some of PGE’s customers, could affect the Company’s results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions in Oregon may result in reduced demand for electricity. Such reductions in demand could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Economic conditions could also result in an increased level of uncollectable customer accounts and cause the Company’s vendors and service providers to experience cash flow problems and be unable to perform under existing or future contracts.Market prices for power and natural gas are subject to forces that are often not predictable and which can result in price volatility and general market disruption, adversely affecting PGE’s costs and ability to manage its energy portfolio and procure required energy supply, which ultimately could have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and results of operations.As part of its normal business operations, PGE purchases power and natural gas in the open market under short and long term contracts, which may specify variable-prices or volumes. Market prices for power and natural gas are influenced primarily by factors related to supply and demand. These factors generally include the adequacy of generating capacity, scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, hydroelectric generation levels, prices and availability of fuel sources for generation, disruptions or constraints to transmission facilities, weather conditions, economic growth, and changes in technology. Volatility in these markets can affect the availability, price and demand for power and natural gas. Disruption in power and natural gas markets could result in a deterioration of market liquidity, increase the risk of counterparty default, affect regulatory and legislative processes in unpredictable ways, affect wholesale power prices, and impair PGE’s ability to manage its energy portfolio. Changes in power and natural gas prices can also affect the fair value of derivative instruments and cash requirements to purchase power and natural gas. If power and natural gas prices decrease from those contained in the Company’s existing purchased power and natural gas agreements, PGE may 24Table of Contentsbe required to provide increased collateral, which could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity. Conversely, if power and natural gas prices rise, especially during periods when the Company requires greater-than-expected volumes that must be purchased at market or short-term prices, PGE could incur greater costs than originally estimated. The risk of volatility in power costs is partially mitigated through the Annual Power Cost Update Tariff (AUT) and the PCAM. PGE files an annual AUT with an update of PGE’s forecasted net variable power costs (baseline NVPC) to be reflected in customer prices. The PCAM provides a mechanism by which the Company can adjust future customer prices to reflect a portion of the difference between each year’s baseline NVPC included in customer prices and actual NVPC. PGE is subject to a portion of the business risk or benefit associated with the difference between actual NVPC and baseline NVPC by application of an asymmetrical “deadband.” The PCAM provides for a fixed deadband range of $15 million below, to $30 million above, baseline NVPC. Application of the PCAM requires that PGE absorb certain power cost increases before the Company is allowed to recover any amount from customers. Accordingly, the PCAM is expected to only partially mitigate the potentially adverse financial impacts of forced generating plant outages, reduced hydro and wind availability, interruptions in fuel supplies, and volatile wholesale energy prices.The effects of weather on electricity usage can adversely affect results of operations.Weather conditions can adversely affect PGE’s revenues and costs, impacting the Company’s results of operations. Variations in temperatures can affect customer demand for electricity, with warmer-than-normal winters or cooler-than-normal summers reducing the demand for energy. Weather conditions are the dominant cause of usage variations from normal seasonal patterns, particularly for residential customers. Severe weather can also disrupt energy delivery and damage the Company’s transmission and distribution system.Rapid increases in load requirements resulting from unexpected adverse weather changes, particularly if coupled with transmission constraints, could adversely impact PGE’s cost and ability to meet the energy needs of its customers. Conversely, rapid decreases in load requirements could result in the sale of excess energy at depressed market prices. Forced outages at PGE’s generating plants can increase the cost of power required to serve customers because the cost of replacement power purchased in the wholesale market generally exceeds the Company’s cost of generation.Forced outages at the Company’s generating plants could result in power costs greater than those included in customer prices. As indicated above, application of the Company’s PCAM could help mitigate adverse financial impacts of such outages; however, the cost sharing features of the mechanism do not provide full recovery in customer prices. Inability to recover such costs in future prices could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The construction of new facilities, or modifications to existing facilities, is subject to risks that could result in the disallowance of certain costs for recovery in customer prices or higher operating costs.PGE’s current position as a “short” utility requires that the Company supplement its own generation with wholesale power purchases to meet its retail load requirement. In addition, long-term increases in both the number of customers and demand for energy will require continued expansion and upgrade of PGE’s generation, transmission, and distribution systems. Construction of new facilities and modifications to existing facilities could be affected by various factors, including unanticipated delays and cost increases and the failure to obtain, or delay in obtaining, necessary permits from state or federal agencies or tribal entities, which could result in failure to complete the projects and the disallowance of certain costs in the rate determination process. In addition, failure to complete construction projects according to specifications could result in reduced plant efficiency, equipment failure, and plant performance that falls below expected levels, which could increase operating costs. 25Table of ContentsAdverse changes in PGE’s credit ratings could negatively affect its access to the capital markets and its cost of borrowed funds.Access to capital markets is important to PGE’s ability to operate its business and complete its capital projects. Credit rating agencies evaluate PGE’s credit ratings on a periodic basis and when certain events occur. A ratings downgrade could increase the interest rates and fees on PGE’s revolving credit facilities, increasing the cost of funding day-to-day working capital requirements, and could also result in higher interest rates on future long-term debt. A ratings downgrade could also restrict the Company’s access to the commercial paper market, a principal source of short-term financing, or result in higher interest costs.In addition, if Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and/or Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) reduce their rating on PGE’s unsecured debt to below investment grade, the Company could be subject to requests by certain wholesale counterparties to post additional performance assurance collateral, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity.Current capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect the Company’s access to capital, cost of capital, and ability to execute its strategic plan as currently scheduled.Access to capital and credit markets is important to PGE’s ability to operate. The Company potentially faces significant capital requirements over the next two to five years and expects to issue debt and equity securities, as necessary, to fund these requirements. In addition, contractual commitments and regulatory requirements may limit the Company’s ability to delay or terminate certain projects. For additional information concerning PGE’s capital requirements, see “Capital Requirements” in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7.—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”If the capital and credit market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world deteriorate, the Company’s future cost of debt and equity capital, as well as access to capital markets, could be adversely affected. In addition, restrictions on PGE’s ability to access capital markets could affect its ability to execute its strategic plan.PGE is subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings, the outcome of which is uncertain, and resolution unfavorable to PGE could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.From time to time in the normal course of its business, PGE is subject to various regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, which could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. These matters are subject to many uncertainties, the ultimate outcome of which management cannot predict. The final resolution of certain matters in which PGE is involved could require that the Company incur expenditures over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have an adverse effect on its cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, the terms of resolution could require the Company to change its business practices and procedures, which could also have an adverse effect on its cash flows, financial position or results of operations.There are certain pending legal and regulatory proceedings, such as those related to PGE’s recovery of its investment in Trojan, the proceedings related to refunds on wholesale market transactions in the Pacific Northwest and the investigation and any resulting remediation efforts related to the Portland Harbor site, that may have an adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows for future reporting periods. For additional information, see Item 3.—“Legal Proceedings” and Note 18, Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.—“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 26Table of ContentsReduced stream flows and unfavorable wind conditions can adversely affect generation from hydroelectric and wind resources. The Company could be required to replace generation from these sources with higher cost power from other facilities or with wholesale market purchases, which could have an adverse effect on results of operations. PGE derives a significant portion of its power supply from its own hydroelectric facilities and through long-term purchase contracts with certain public utility districts in the state of Washington. Regional rainfall and snow pack levels affect stream flows and the resulting amount of generation available from these facilities. Shortfalls in low-cost hydro production would require increased generation from the Company’s higher cost thermal plants and/or power purchases in the wholesale market, which could have an adverse effect on results of operations.PGE also derives a portion of its power supply from wind resources, for which the output is dependent upon wind conditions. Unfavorable wind conditions could require increased reliance on power from the Company’s other generating resources or power purchases in the wholesale market, both of which could have an adverse effect on results of operations.Although the application of the PCAM could help mitigate adverse financial effects from any decrease in power provided by hydroelectric and wind resources, full recovery of any increase in power costs is not assured. Inability to fully recover such costs in future prices could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations, as well as a reduction in renewable energy credits and loss of production tax credits (PTCs) related to wind resources.Legislative or regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could lead to increased capital and operating costs and have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations.Future legislation or regulations could result in limitations on greenhouse gas emissions from the Company’s fossil fuel-fired generation facilities. Compliance with any greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements could require PGE to incur significant expenditures, including those related to carbon capture and sequestration technology, purchase of emission allowances and offsets, fuel switching, and the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower emitting facilities.The cost to comply with potential greenhouse gas emissions reduction requirements is subject to significant uncertainties, including those related to: the timing of the implementation of emissions reduction rules; required levels of emissions reductions; requirements with respect to the allocation of emissions allowances; the maturation, regulation and commercialization of carbon capture and sequestration technology; and PGE’s compliance alternatives. Although the Company cannot currently estimate the effect of future legislation or regulations on its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, the costs of compliance with such legislation or regulations could be material. Under certain circumstances, banks participating in PGE’s credit facilities could decline to fund advances requested by the Company or could withdraw from participation in the credit facilities.PGE currently has unsecured revolving credit facilities with several banks for an aggregate amount of $700 million. These credit facilities are available for general corporate purposes and may be used to supplement operating cash flow and provide a primary source of liquidity. The credit facilities may also be used as backup for commercial paper borrowings. The credit facilities represent commitments by the participating banks to make loans and, in certain cases, to issue letters of credit. The Company is required to make certain representations to the banks each time it requests an advance under one of the credit facilities. However, in the event certain circumstances occur that could result in a material adverse change in the business, financial condition or results of operations of PGE, the Company may not be able to make such representations, in which case the banks would not be required to lend. PGE is also subject to the risk that one or more of the participating banks may default on their obligation to make loans under the credit facilities.27Table of ContentsIn addition, it is possible that the Company might not be aware of certain developments at the time it makes such a representation in connection with a request for a loan, which could cause the representation to be untrue at the time made and constitute an event of default. Such a circumstance could result in a loss of the banks’ commitments under the credit facilities and, in certain circumstances, the accelerated repayment of any outstanding loan balances.Measures required to comply with state and federal regulations related to air emissions and water discharges from thermal generating plants could result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce generating capacity, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.The Company is subject to state and federal requirements concerning air emissions and water discharges from thermal generation plants. For additional information, see the Environmental Matters section in Item 1.—“Business.” These requirements could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations by requiring (i) the installation of additional air emissions and water discharge controls at the Company’s generating plants, which could result in increased capital expenditures and (ii) changes to PGE’s operations that could increase operating costs and reduce generating capacity. Adverse capital market performance could result in reductions in the fair value of benefit plan assets and increase the Company’s liabilities related to such plans. Sustained declines in the fair value of the plans’ assets could result in significant increases in funding requirements, which could adversely affect PGE’s liquidity and results of operations.Performance of the capital markets affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Company’s defined benefit pension plan. Sustained adverse market performance could result in lower rates of return for these assets than projected by the Company and could increase PGE’s funding requirements related to the pension plan. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the Company’s liabilities under the pension plan. As interest rates decrease, the Company’s liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. In 2012, discount rates used to value the pension plan declined substantially. This decline, combined with an increased actuarial loss related to prior year asset under performance, contributed to an increase in the pension plan’s underfunded status from $147 million as of December 31, 2011 to $191 million as of December 31, 2012. Performance of the capital markets also affects the fair value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Company’s non-qualified employee benefit plans, which include deferred compensation plans. As changes in the fair value of these assets are recorded in current earnings, decreases can adversely affect the Company’s operating results. In addition, such decreases can require that PGE make additional payments to satisfy its obligations under these plans. For additional information regarding PGE’s contribution obligations under its pension and non-qualified benefit plans, see “Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments” in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7.—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Pension and Other Postretirement Plans” in Note 10, Employee Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.— “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”Failure of PGE’s wholesale suppliers to perform their contractual obligations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver electricity and increase the Company’s costs.PGE relies on suppliers to deliver natural gas, coal and electricity, in accordance with short- and long-term contracts. Failure of suppliers to comply with such contracts in a timely manner could disrupt PGE’s ability to deliver electricity and require the Company to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of its customers. In addition, as these contracts expire, PGE could be unable to continue to purchase natural gas, coal or electricity on terms and conditions equivalent to those of existing agreements. 28Table of ContentsOperational changes required to comply with both existing and new environmental laws related to fish and wildlife could adversely affect PGE’s results of operations.A portion of PGE’s total energy requirement is supplied with power generated from hydroelectric and wind projects. Operation of these projects is subject to regulation related to the protection of fish and wildlife. The listing of various species of salmon, wildlife, and plants as threatened or endangered has resulted in significant operational changes to these projects. Salmon recovery plans could include further major operational changes to the region’s hydroelectric projects, including those owned by PGE and those from which the Company purchases power under long-term contracts. In addition, laws relating to the protection of migratory birds and other wildlife could impact the development and operation of transmission lines and wind projects. Also, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to such facilities, which could further increase required expenditures for salmon recovery and endangered species protection and reduce the amount of hydro or wind generation available to meet the Company’s energy requirements.PGE could be vulnerable to cyber security attacks, data security breaches or other similar events that could disrupt its operations, require significant expenditures or result in claims against the Company.In the normal course of business, PGE collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential customer and employee information, as well as proprietary business information, and operates systems that directly impact the availability of electric power and the transmission of electric power in its service territory. Despite the security measures in place, the Company’s systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to cyber security attacks, data security breaches or other similar events that could disrupt operations or result in the release of sensitive or confidential information. Such events could cause a shutdown of service or expose the Company to liability. In addition, the Company may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. The Company maintains insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses resulting from these risks. However, insurance may not be adequate to protect the Company against liability in all cases. In addition, PGE is subject to the risk that insurers will dispute or be unable to perform their obligations to the Company.Storms and other natural disasters could damage the Company’s facilities and disrupt delivery of electricity resulting in significant property loss, repair costs, and reduced customer satisfaction.The Company has exposure to natural disasters that can cause significant damage to its generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Such events can interrupt the delivery of electricity, increase repair and service restoration expenses, and reduce revenues. Such events, if repeated or prolonged, can also affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight. As a regulated utility, the Company is required to provide service to all customers within its service territory and generally has been afforded liability protection against customer claims related to service failures beyond the Company’s reasonable control. In PGE’s 2011 General Rate Case, the OPUC authorized the Company to collect $2 million annually from retail customers for such damages and to defer any amount not utilized in the current year. The deferred amount, along with the annual collection, would be available to offset potential storm damage costs in future years.PGE utilizes insurance, when possible, to mitigate the cost of physical loss or damage to the Company’s property. As cost effective insurance coverage for transmission and distribution line property (poles and wires) is currently not available, however, the Company would likely seek recovery of large losses to such property through the ratemaking process. PGE is subject to extensive regulation that affects the Company’s operations and costs.PGE is subject to regulation by the FERC, the OPUC, and by certain federal, state and local authorities under environmental and other laws. Such regulation significantly influences the Company’s operating environment and can have an effect on many aspects of its business. Changes to regulations are ongoing, and the Company cannot predict with certainty the future course of such changes or the ultimate effect that they might have on its business. 29Table of ContentsHowever, changes in regulations could delay or adversely affect business planning and transactions, and substantially increase the Company’s costs.PGE has a workforce with a significant number of employees approaching retirement.The Company anticipates higher averages of retirement rates over the next ten years and will likely need to replace a significant number of employees in key positions. PGE’s ability to successfully implement a workforce succession plan is dependent upon the Company’s ability to employ and retain skilled professional and technical workers. Without a skilled workforce, the Company would face greater challenges in providing quality service to its customers and meeting regulatory requirements, both of which could affect operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.30Table of Contents