ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain risks and uncertainties that may affect PGE’s business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows, or that may cause the Company’s actual results to vary from the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, include those set forth below. Recovery of PGE’s costs is subject to regulatory review and approval, and the inability to recover costs may adversely affect the Company’s results of operation. The prices that the OPUC authorizes PGE to charge for its retail services are the major factor in determining the Company’s operating income, financial position, liquidity, and credit ratings. The OPUC has the authority to disallow recovery of any costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Furthermore, the regulatory process does not provide assurance that PGE will be able to achieve the earnings level authorized. In PGE’s most recent general rate case, the Company’s initial proposal included an overall rate increase of 8.9%, compared to a 7.3% overall increase approved by the OPUC. The Company will seek to manage costs at levels consistent with the reduced rate increase. However, if the Company is unable to do so, or if such cost management results in increased operational risk, the reduced rate increase could adversely affect the Company’s operations or results of operations. For further information, see the Overview section of Item 7. - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” 21 Table of Contents Currently, PGE utilizes a PCAM by which the Company can adjust future prices to reflect a portion of the difference between each year’s forecasted and actual NVPC. Use of the approved cost sharing methodology requires that PGE absorb certain power cost increases before the Company is allowed to recover any amount from customers. Accordingly, application of the PCAM is expected to only partially mitigate the potentially adverse financial impact of forced generating plant outages, severe weather, reduced hydro availability, and volatile wholesale energy prices. The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect the Company’s access to capital, cost of capital, and ability to execute its business plan as scheduled. Access to capital markets is important to PGE’s ability to operate. The Company will face significant capital requirements for several large projects in the near term and expects to issue both debt and equity in 2009 in order to fund such projects. In addition, because of contractual commitments and regulatory requirements, the Company has limited ability to delay or terminate these projects, which include Biglow Canyon and the smart meter project. For further information concerning PGE’s capital requirements, see “Capital Requirements” in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” Recently, the general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. If these conditions continue or become worse, the Company’s future cost of debt and equity capital and access to capital markets could be adversely affected. In addition, restrictions on PGE’s ability to access capital markets could affect its ability to execute its business plan as scheduled. The current economic downturn has reduced the demand for electricity and has impaired the financial soundness of customers, which has adversely affected PGE’s results of operation and could continue to do so. The economic downturn could also impair the financial soundness of the Company’s vendors and service providers. The slowing of the Oregon and national economies has resulted in reduced demand for electricity and could result in a continued reduction in such demand. This reduced demand has decreased the Company’s earnings and cash flow and could continue to do so. In Oregon, the economic slow-down has included a sustained decline in the housing market and rising unemployment. Oregon’s unemployment rate rose from an average of 5.2% for 2007 to an average of 6.3% for 2008, compared to the national average unemployment rate of 5.8%. Oregon’s seasonally-adjusted unemployment rate increased to 9% in December 2008. In addition, the Company’s uncollectible customer accounts increased in the fourth quarter of 2008. If customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to the Company. Any further inability of customers to pay the Company could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, as a result of the current economic downturn affecting the economies of the state of Oregon, the United States and other parts of the world, the Company’s vendors and service providers could experience serious cash flow problems. As a result, PGE’s vendors and service providers may be unable to perform under existing contracts or may significantly increase their prices or reduce their output or performance on future contracts. 22 Table of Contents PGE faces regulatory and litigation risk with respect to recovery of the Company’s investment in the closed Trojan Nuclear Plant. There remains uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings related to PGE’s recovery of its investment in Trojan, which was closed in 1993. With respect to the OPUC proceedings, the Utility Reform Project (URP) and the class action plaintiffs have separately appealed, to the Oregon Court of Appeals, the September 30, 2008 OPUC order requiring PGE to refund $33.1 million to customers. With respect to the class actions, the Circuit Court has not yet ruled on the plaintiffs’ motion to lift the abatement of the class action proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings could have a material adverse affect on PGE’s results of operation and liquidity. For further information regarding Trojan legal and regulatory proceedings, see “Legal Matters” in Note 18, Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 3. - “Legal Proceedings.” Adverse market performance could result in further reductions in the fair market value of benefit plan trust assets and increase the Company’s liabilities related to such plans. Such changes could result in a significant increase in funding requirements. Performance of the capital markets affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Company’s pension plan. Sustained adverse market performance, such as the losses in market value that reduced the value of the Company’s pension plan trust assets in 2008, may result in lower rates of return for these assets than projected by the Company and could increase PGE’s funding requirements related to the pension plan. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the Company’s liabilities under the pension plan. As interest rates decrease, the Company’s liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Performance of the capital markets also affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Company’s non-qualified employee benefit plans, which include deferred compensation plans and a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. A reduction in the value of these assets is recorded through current earnings and would adversely affect the funded status of the plans. If PGE is unable to obtain sufficient financial returns on its benefit plan trust assets, the Company’s operating results and cash flows could be negatively affected. For further information regarding PGE’s contribution obligations under its pension and non-qualified benefit plans, see “Current Market Conditions - Valuation of Investments” in the Overview section of Item 7. - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”, the “Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments” table in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7, and “Pension and Other Postretirement Plans” in Note 10, Employee Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Wholesale energy markets are subject to forces that are often not predictable and which can result in price volatility, deterioration of liquidity, and general market disruption, adversely affecting PGE’s costs and ability to manage its energy portfolio and procure required energy supply. Wholesale electricity prices in the western United States are influenced primarily by factors related to supply and demand. These factors include the adequacy of generating capacity, scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, hydroelectric generation levels, prices and availability of fuel sources for generation, disruptions or constraints to transmission facilities, weather conditions, economic growth, and changes in technology. Volatility in wholesale energy markets can affect the availability and price of purchased power and demand for energy. 23 Table of Contents Changes in the creditworthiness of large wholesale counterparties can also affect PGE’s variable power costs. Further, disruption in wholesale markets could result in a deterioration of market liquidity, increase the risk of counterparty default, affect the regulatory and legislative process in unpredictable ways, affect wholesale energy prices, and impair PGE’s ability to manage its energy portfolio. Changes in wholesale energy prices can also affect the market value of derivative instruments and cash requirements to purchase electricity. Although the Company’s PCAM can be expected to partially mitigate adverse financial effects related to wholesale market conditions, cost sharing features of the mechanism do not provide for full recovery in customer prices. Fluctuations in the price of natural gas purchased as fuel for electricity generation can also impact the Company’s liquidity. Recently, as a result of declining wholesale power and natural gas prices, PGE has been required to provide increased margin deposits pursuant to existing purchased power and natural gas agreements. If wholesale power and natural gas prices continue to decline, PGE could be required to continue to provide increased margin deposits, which could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity. Fluctuations in the price of natural gas purchased as fuel for electricity generation can also impact results of operations. PGE purchases natural gas in the open market or pursuant to short-term or variable-price contracts as part of its normal business operations. If market prices rise, especially during periods when the Company requires greater-than-expected volumes that must be purchased at market or short-term prices, PGE could incur greater costs than originally estimated. The Company may not be able to fully recover these increased costs through ratemaking. Under certain circumstances, one or more of the banks participating in PGE’s credit facilities could decline to fund an advance requested by the Company or could withdraw from participation in the credit facility. The Company has a $370 million multi-year revolving credit facility, of which $10 million expires in July 2012 and $360 million expires in July 2013, and a $125 million 364-day revolving credit facility, which expires in December 2009. Each facility is with a group of banks. These facilities supplement operating cash flow and provide a primary source of liquidity. The facilities are also used as backup for commercial paper borrowings and are available for general corporate purposes. The Company is required to make certain representations to the banks each time it requests an advance under one of the facilities. These facilities are commitments on the part of the banks to make loans and, in the case of the multi-year revolving credit facility, to issue letters of credit. However, in the event of the occurrence of certain events that could result in a material adverse change in the business, financial condition or results of operation of PGE, the Company may not be able to make certain representations in which case the banks would not be required to lend. We are also subject to the risk that one or more of the participating banks may default on its obligation to make loans under the credit facilities. In addition, it is possible that the Company might not be aware of certain developments at the time it makes such a representation in connection with a request for an advance, which could cause the representation to be untrue at the time made and constitute an event of default. Such a circumstance could result in a loss of the banks’ commitments under the facilities and in certain circumstances an acceleration of repayment of any outstanding advance. 24 Table of Contents Adverse changes in PGE’s credit ratings could negatively affect its access to the capital markets and its cost of borrowed funds. Access to capital markets is important to PGE’s ability to operate and to complete its ongoing capital projects, such as Biglow Canyon and the smart meter project. In their normal course of business, credit rating agencies re-examine PGE’s credit ratings on a periodic basis and when certain events occur. A ratings downgrade could increase the interest rates and fees on PGE’s revolving credit facilities, increasing the cost of funding day-to-day working capital requirements, and could also require the Company to pay higher interest rates on future long-term debt. In addition, access to the commercial paper market, a principal source of short-term financing, could be restricted, possibly resulting in higher interest costs. The Company’s secured and unsecured debt is currently rated at investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and Standard and Poor’s (S&P). In January 2009, S&P revised its outlook on PGE from ‘stable’ to ‘negative’ and affirmed PGE’s corporate credit rating. The outlook revision reflects the possibility that, in 2009, PGE’s debt balances may increase and credit metrics may weaken to levels that would not be commensurate with S&P’s expectations for the current ‘BBB+’ corporate rating. Should Moody’s and/or S&P reduce their rating on the Company’s unsecured debt to below investment grade, PGE could be subject to requests by certain wholesale counterparties to post additional performance assurance collateral, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. The effects of weather on electricity usage can adversely affect operating results. Weather conditions can adversely affect PGE’s revenues and costs and have an impact on the Company’s financial and operating results. Temperatures outside the normal range can affect customer demand for electricity, with warmer-than-normal winters or cooler-than-normal summers reducing energy sales and revenues. Weather conditions are the dominant cause of usage variations from normal seasonal patterns, particularly for residential customers. Severe weather can also disrupt energy delivery and damage the Company’s transmission and distribution system. Rapid increases in load requirements resulting from unexpected adverse weather changes, particularly if coupled with transmission constraints, could adversely impact PGE’s cost and ability to meet the energy needs of its customers. Conversely, rapid decreases in load requirements could result in the sale of excess energy at depressed market prices. Weather conditions that reduce stream flows could adversely affect PGE’s hydro production and increase the Company’s generation or power purchase costs required to meet the shortfall. PGE derives a portion of its power supply from its hydroelectric facilities and from those owned by certain public utility districts in the state of Washington and the city of Portland, with whom the Company has long-term power purchase contracts. Regional rainfall and snow pack levels affect stream flows and the resulting amount of generation available from these facilities. Shortfalls in low-cost hydro production would require increased generation from the Company’s higher cost thermal plants and/or power purchases in the wholesale market, which could have an adverse effect on operating results. As indicated above, application of the Company’s PCAM could help mitigate adverse financial effects of such shortfalls. However, full recovery is not assured and any inability to fully recover such costs in future rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operation. 25 Table of Contents Forced outages at PGE’s generating plants can increase the cost of power required to serve customers because the cost of replacement power purchased in the wholesale market generally exceeds the Company’s cost of generation. Forced outages at the Company’s generating plants could result in replacement power costs greater than those included in customer prices. As indicated above, application of the Company’s PCAM could help mitigate adverse financial impacts of such outages. However, full recovery is not assured and any inability to fully recover such costs in future rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operation. Measures required to comply with state and federal regulations related to emissions from thermal electric generating plants could result in increased capital expenditures and changes to the Company’s operations that could increase operating costs, reduce generating capacity and adversely affect PGE’s results of operation. Oregon and federal regulators are currently considering the air emission standards applicable to PGE’s thermal generating plants in Oregon as part of separate regulatory processes related to haze, mercury, and the Company’s air permits. Oregon regulators have adopted measures that will require installation of mercury controls at PGE’s Boardman coal plant. Additional emissions controls could be required at Boardman, although specific measures will depend on the outcome of the regulators’ reviews. For further information, see “Environmental Matters” in Item 1. - “Business.” Although the full impact of required state and federal remediation measures is not yet determinable, they could have an adverse effect on future operations, operating costs, and generating capacity at both Boardman and Colstrip. The Company would seek to recover through the ratemaking process any costs of additional emission control equipment or emission reduction measures that may be required. However, there can be no assurance that such recovery would be granted. In addition, PGE could be subject to litigation brought by environmental groups and other private parties alleging violations of state or federal law and seeking the imposition of penalties, damages, injunctive relief, and the closure of plants. For further information, see Sierra Club et al. v. Portland General Electric Company in Item 3. - “Legal Proceedings.” Failure of PGE’s wholesale suppliers to perform their contractual obligations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver electricity and increase the Company’s costs. PGE relies on suppliers to deliver natural gas, coal and electricity, in accordance with short- and long-term contracts. Failure of suppliers to comply with existing contracts in a timely manner could disrupt PGE’s ability to deliver electricity and require the Company to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of its customers. In addition, as these contracts expire, PGE could be unable to continue to purchase natural gas, coal or electricity on terms and conditions equivalent to those of existing agreements. Cost and availability of natural gas and coal can also impact the cost and output of the Company’s thermal generating plants. The construction of new generating facilities, or modifications to existing facilities, is subject to risks that could result in the disallowance of certain costs for recovery in prices, reduced plant efficiency, or higher operating costs. Long-term increases in both the number of customers and demand for energy will require continued expansion and reinforcement of PGE’s generation, transmission, and distribution systems. 26 Table of Contents Construction of new generating facilities, or modifications to existing facilities, could be affected by various factors, including unanticipated delays and cost increases, which could result in the disallowance of certain costs in the rate determination process. In addition, the failure to complete construction projects according to specifications could result in reduced plant efficiency, equipment failure, and plant performance that falls below expected levels, which could increase operating costs. Capital expenditures and changes in operations required to comply with both existing and new environmental laws related to fish and wildlife could adversely affect PGE’s results of operation. A portion of PGE’s total energy requirement is comprised of generation from hydroelectric projects on the Columbia, Clackamas, Deschutes, and Willamette rivers. Operation of these projects is subject to extensive regulation related to the protection of fish and wildlife. The listing of various species of salmon, wildlife, and plants as threatened or endangered has resulted in significant changes to federally-authorized activities, including those of hydroelectric projects. Salmon recovery plans could include further major operational changes to the region’s hydroelectric projects, including those owned by PGE and those from which the Company purchases power under long-term contracts. In addition, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to such facilities, which could further increase required expenditures for salmon recovery and endangered species protection and reduce the amount of hydro generation available to meet the Company’s energy requirements. The Company would likely seek recovery of any such expenditures through the ratemaking process; however, there can be no assurance that such recovery would be granted. Legislative or regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in response to concerns related to climate change, could lead to increased capital and operating costs and have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations or results of operation. The outcome of legislative or regulatory efforts regarding greenhouse gas emissions, whether at the international, federal, regional, state, or local level, or the timing of any such laws or regulations that could be enacted, could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations and cash flows unless the additional costs incurred to comply with such laws or regulations can be recovered through regulated rates and/or future market prices for electricity. The cost of compliance with such measures could also make some of PGE’s electric generating units uneconomical to operate or maintain. The Company would likely seek to recover through the ratemaking process any costs of additional emission control equipment or emission reduction measures, such as the cost of sequestration or purchasing allowances, or offset the cost of credits that may be required; however, there can be no assurance that such recovery would be granted. PGE expects that future federal, and possibly state, legislation or regulation may result in the imposition of limitations on the Company’s greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. A number of bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress that would require greenhouse gas emission reductions from fossil fuel-fired electric generation facilities and other sectors of the economy, although no such bill has yet been enacted. Compliance with these greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements could require PGE to make significant expenditures, including with respect to carbon capture and sequestration technology, purchase of emission allowances and/or offsets, fuel switching, and/or retirement of high-emitting generation facilities and replacement with lower emitting generation facilities. The costs of compliance with these expected greenhouse gas requirements are subject to significant uncertainties, including with respect to the timing of the implementation of emission rules, required 27 Table of Contents levels of emission reductions, emission allocation requirements, the maturation, regulation and commercialization of carbon capture and sequestration technology, and PGE’s selected compliance alternatives. As a result, PGE cannot estimate the effect of any such legislation on its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; however, the costs of compliance with such requirements could be material. PGE is subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings, the outcome of which is uncertain, and resolution unfavorable to PGE could adversely affect the Company’s results of operation, financial condition or cash flows. From time to time in the normal course of its business, PGE is subject to various regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, which could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. These actions are subject to many uncertainties and management cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. The final resolution of some of the matters in which PGE is involved could require the Company to make additional expenditures, in excess of established reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have an adverse effect on its cash flows and results of operation. Similarly, the terms of resolution could require the Company to change its business practices and procedures, which could also have an adverse effect on its cash flows, financial position or results of operation. Certain pending legal and regulatory proceedings, such as the Trojan litigation, the proceedings related to refunds on wholesale market transactions in the Pacific Northwest, and the investigation and any resulting remediation efforts related to the Portland Harbor site, may have an adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows for future reporting periods. For further information, see Note 18, Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 3. - “Legal Proceedings.” Storms and other natural disasters could damage the Company’s facilities and disrupt its delivery of electricity resulting in significant property loss or repair costs and customer dissatisfaction. The Company has exposure to natural disasters that can cause significant damage to its generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Such events can interrupt the delivery of electricity, increase repair and service restoration expenses, and reduce revenues. Such events, if repeated or prolonged, can also affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight. As a regulated utility, the Company is required to provide service to all customers within its service territory and generally has been afforded liability protection against customer claims related to service failures beyond the Company’s reasonable control. To the extent reasonably possible, PGE utilizes insurance as a means to cost effectively mitigate the risk of physical loss or damage to the Company’s property resulting from natural disasters, subject to certain coverage terms and conditions. The Company believes that the losses sustained to its transmission and distribution property relating to the December 2008 winter storm that affected Oregon will likely exhaust all remaining benefits available under the Company’s transmission and distribution property insurance policy. As a result, PGE would be responsible for any damage sustained to its transmission and distribution property related to future storms, unless additional insurance is obtained. Related losses through the end of the term of the current insurance policy, which terminates in October 2009, would increase costs. The Company would likely seek recovery of any future uninsured storm-related losses through the ratemaking process; however, there can be no assurance that any recovery would be granted. If such recovery is not granted, these increased costs could have 28 Table of Contents an adverse effect on PGE’s results of operation in a future period. Additionally, PGE may not be able to obtain subsequent insurance policies for its transmission and distribution property with similar terms and rates. PGE’s business is subject to extensive regulation that affects the Company’s operations and costs. PGE is subject to regulation by the FERC and the OPUC, and by federal, state and local authorities under environmental and other laws. Such regulation significantly influences the Company’s operating environment and affects many aspects of its business. Changes to regulations are ongoing, and the Company cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on the Company’s business. However, changes in these regulations could delay or adversely affect business planning and transactions, and substantially increase the Company’s costs. PGE has an aging workforce with a significant number of employees approaching retirement age. The Company anticipates higher averages of retirement rates over the next ten years and will likely need to replace a significant number of employees in key positions. PGE’s ability to successfully implement a workforce succession plan is dependent upon the Company’s ability to employ and retain skilled professional and technical workers. Without a skilled workforce, the Company would face greater challenges in providing quality service to its customers and meeting regulatory requirements, both of which could affect operating results. Conditions that may be imposed in connection with the renewal of hydroelectric licenses could require large capital expenditures. PGE is currently involved in renewing the federal license for its hydroelectric projects on the Clackamas River. The FERC, under the Federal Power Act, may impose conditions with respect to environmental, operating and other matters in connection with the renewal of PGE’s license. The Company cannot predict with certainty the requirements that might be imposed during the relicensing process, the economic impact of those requirements, whether a new license will ultimately be issued or whether PGE will be willing to meet the relicensing requirements to continue operating its Clackamas hydroelectric projects. The Company would likely seek recovery of any additional costs related to such licensing requirements through the ratemaking process. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 29 Table of Contents 