ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain risks and uncertainties that could have a significant impact on PGE’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or that may cause the Company’s actual results to vary from the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, include, but are not limited to, those set forth below. Recovery of PGE’s costs is subject to regulatory review and approval, and the inability to recover costs may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The prices that the OPUC authorizes PGE to charge for its retail services are a major factor in determining the Company’s operating income, financial position, liquidity, and credit ratings. The OPUC has the authority to disallow recovery of any costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Furthermore, the regulatory process does not provide assurance that PGE will be able to achieve the earnings level authorized. Although the OPUC is required to establish rates that are fair, just and reasonable, it has significant discretion in determining the application of this standard. In PGE’s 2009 General Rate Case, the Company’s initial proposal included an overall rate increase of 8.9%, compared to a 7.3% overall increase approved by the OPUC. The Company attempts to manage costs at levels consistent with the reduced rate increase. However, if the Company is unable to do so, or if such cost management results in increased operational risk, the reduced rate increase could adversely affect the Company’s operations or results of operations. On February 16, 2010, PGE filed with the OPUC a general rate case with a 2011 test year (2011 General Rate Case). This 2011 General Rate Case seeks to more closely align customer prices with the Company’s cost structure. There can be no assurance that the OPUC will approve the rate increase sought by PGE in this case. For additional information regarding the 2011 General Rate Case, see the Overview section of Item 7.—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” PGE utilizes a PCAM by which the Company can adjust future prices to reflect a portion of the difference between each year’s forecasted and actual NVPC. Use of the approved cost sharing methodology requires that PGE absorb certain power cost increases before the Company is allowed to recover any amount from customers. Accordingly, application of the PCAM is expected to only partially mitigate the potentially adverse financial impacts of forced generating plant outages, severe weather, reduced hydro availability, and volatile wholesale energy prices. In 2009, PGE’s actual NVPC exceeded the baseline NVPC included in prices by $22 million. As this amount was below the threshold for recovery under the PCAM, PGE absorbed these increased costs. The current economic downturn has reduced the demand for electricity and has impaired the financial soundness of many customers, which has adversely affected PGE’s results of operations and could continue to do so. The economic slow-down has resulted in a rise in Oregon’s average unemployment rate to 11.4% for 2009 from 6.4% for 2008 and 5.2% for 2007, compared to the national average unemployment rate of 9.3% for 2009. Oregon’s seasonally-adjusted unemployment rate increased to 10.8% in December 2009 compared to 9% in December 2008. The slowing of the Oregon and national economies has resulted in reduced demand for electricity and could result in a continued reduction in such demand. This reduced demand has adversely affected the Company’s results of operations and cash flow and could continue to do so. As a result of the economic slow down, PGE experienced, among other unfavorable trends, the following in 2009: • A decrease of 9% in energy deliveries to industrial customers from 2008; and • The sale of electricity, originally intended to meet forecasted retail load requirements, into a depressed wholesale market. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the Company’s uncollectible customer accounts increased in 2009 compared to 2008. If customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are unable to secure financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to the Company. The inability of customers to pay the Company could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. Furthermore, as a result of the current economic downturn affecting the economies of the state of Oregon, the United States and other parts of the world, the Company’s vendors and service providers could experience serious cash flow problems. As a result, PGE’s vendors and service providers may be unable to perform under existing contracts or may significantly increase their prices or reduce their output or performance on future contracts. The construction of new generating facilities, or modifications to existing facilities, is subject to risks that could result in the disallowance of certain costs for recovery in prices, reduced plant efficiency, or higher operating costs. Long-term increases in both the number of customers and demand for energy will require continued expansion and reinforcement of PGE’s generation, transmission, and distribution systems. Construction of new generating facilities, or modifications to existing facilities, could be affected by various factors, including unanticipated delays and cost increases, which could result in the disallowance of certain costs in the rate determination process. In addition, the failure to complete construction projects according to specifications could result in reduced plant efficiency, equipment failure, and plant performance that falls below expected levels, which could increase operating costs. Adverse changes in PGE’s credit ratings could negatively affect its access to the capital markets and its cost of borrowed funds. Access to capital markets is important to PGE’s ability to operate and to complete its ongoing capital projects, including Biglow Canyon Phase III, the smart meter project, and ongoing upgrades and replacements of transmission, distribution and generation infrastructure. In their normal course of business, credit rating agencies re-examine PGE’s credit ratings on a periodic basis and when certain events occur. A ratings downgrade could increase the interest rates and fees on PGE’s revolving credit facilities, increasing the cost of funding day-to-day working capital requirements, and could also result in higher interest rates on future long-term debt. A ratings downgrade could also restrict the Company’s access to the commercial paper market, a principal source of short-term financing, or result in higher interest costs. In addition, if Moody’s Investor Service (Moody’s) and/or Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) reduce their rating on the Company’s unsecured debt to below investment grade, PGE could be subject to requests by certain wholesale counterparties to post additional performance assurance collateral, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. Current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect the Company’s access to capital, cost of capital, and ability to execute its business plan as currently scheduled. Access to capital and credit markets is important to PGE’s ability to operate. The Company faces significant capital requirements in 2010 and for the next few years and expects to issue debt and equity securities in order to fund certain major projects. In addition, because of contractual commitments and regulatory requirements, the Company has limited ability to delay or terminate these projects, which include Biglow Canyon Phase III and the smart meter project in 2010. For additional information concerning PGE’s capital requirements, see “Capital Requirements” in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7.—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If the capital and credit market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world deteriorate, the Company’s future cost of debt and equity capital, as well as access to capital markets, could be adversely affected. In addition, restrictions on PGE’s ability to access capital markets could affect its ability to execute its business plan as currently scheduled. 24 Table of Contents Adverse market performance could result in reductions in the fair market value of benefit plan assets and increase the Company’s liabilities related to such plans. Sustained depreciation of the fair value of the plans’ assets could result in significant increases in funding requirements, adversely affecting PGE’s liquidity and results of operations. Performance of the capital markets affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Company’s defined benefit pension plan. Sustained adverse market performance could result in lower rates of return for these assets than projected by the Company and could increase PGE’s funding requirements related to the pension plan. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the Company’s liabilities under the pension plan. As interest rates decrease, the Company’s liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. During 2008, the value of the pension plan assets declined substantially, contributing to the pension plan’s underfunded status of $120 million as of December 31, 2008. During 2009, the value of the pension plan assets appreciated and changes in certain actuarial assumptions resulted in an improvement in the underfunded status of the pension plan to $85 million as of December 31, 2009. As a result, the Company expects to make no contribution to the pension plan in 2010 and a $19 million contribution in 2011, pursuant to the requirements of the federal Pension Protection Act. Performance of the capital markets also affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Company’s non-qualified employee benefit plans, which include deferred compensation plans and a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. As changes in the value of these assets are recorded in current earnings, decreases can adversely affect the Company’s operating results. In addition, such decreases can require that PGE make additional payments to satisfy its obligations under these plans. In 2008, PGE recorded a loss on the fair value of these assets of $17 million, which reduced net income by $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, while in 2009, PGE recorded a gain of $9 million, which increased net income by $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. For additional information regarding PGE’s contribution obligations under its pension and non-qualified benefit plans, see the “Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments” table in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7.—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Pension and Other Postretirement Plans” in Note 10, Employee Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Market prices for power and natural gas are subject to forces that are often not predictable and which can result in price volatility, and general market disruption, adversely affecting PGE’s costs and ability to manage its energy portfolio and procure required energy supply, ultimately affecting the Company’s liquidity and results of operations. PGE purchases power and natural gas in the open market or pursuant to short-term, long-term or variable-priced contracts as part of its normal business operations. Market prices for power and natural gas are influenced primarily by factors related to supply and demand. These factors generally include the adequacy of generating capacity, scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, hydroelectric generation levels, prices and availability of fuel sources for generation, disruptions or constraints to transmission facilities, weather conditions, economic growth, and changes in technology. Volatility in these markets can affect the availability, price and demand for power and natural gas. Disruption in power and natural gas markets could result in a deterioration of market liquidity, increase the risk of counterparty default, affect the regulatory and legislative process in unpredictable ways, affect wholesale power prices, and impair PGE’s ability to manage its energy portfolio. Changes in power and natural gas prices can also affect the market value of derivative instruments and cash requirements to purchase power and natural gas. Although the Company’s PCAM can be expected to partially mitigate adverse financial effects related to market conditions, cost sharing features of the mechanism do not provide for full recovery in customer prices. If power and natural gas prices decline relative to the terms of PGE’s existing purchased power and natural gas agreements, PGE may be required to provide increased margin deposits in accordance with these purchased 25 Table of Contents power and natural gas agreements which could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity. In the latter half of 2008 and into 2009, as a result of depressed wholesale power and natural gas prices, PGE was required to provide increased levels of margin deposits for its existing purchased power and natural gas agreements. Conversely, if power and natural gas prices rise, especially during periods when the Company requires greater-than-expected volumes that must be purchased at market or short-term prices, PGE could incur greater costs than originally estimated. The Company may not be able to fully recover these increased costs through ratemaking. PGE is subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings, the outcome of which is uncertain, and resolution unfavorable to PGE could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. From time to time in the normal course of its business, PGE is subject to various regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, which could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. These actions are subject to many uncertainties and management cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. The final resolution of some of the matters in which PGE is involved could require the Company to make additional expenditures, in excess of established accruals, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have an adverse effect on its cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, the terms of resolution could require the Company to change its business practices and procedures, which could also have an adverse effect on its cash flows, financial position or results of operations. There are certain pending legal and regulatory proceedings, such as those related to PGE’s recovery of its investment in Trojan, the proceedings related to refunds on wholesale market transactions in the Pacific Northwest and the investigation and any resulting remediation efforts related to the Portland Harbor site, that may have an adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows for future reporting periods. For additional information, see Note 18, Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 3.—“Legal Proceedings.” Legislative or regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could lead to increased capital and operating costs and have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations or results of operations. PGE expects that future federal, and possibly state, legislation or regulations may result in the imposition of limitations on greenhouse gas emissions from the Company’s fossil fuel-fired electric generating facilities. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress that would require greenhouse gas emission reductions from such generating facilities and other sectors of the economy. No such legislation has yet been enacted, although the House of Representatives passed climate legislation in June 2009. Compliance with any greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements could require PGE to incur significant expenditures, including those related to carbon capture and sequestration technology, purchase of emission allowances and/or offsets, fuel switching, and/or retirement of high-emitting generation facilities and replacement with lower emitting generation facilities. The cost to comply with expected greenhouse gas emissions reduction requirements is subject to significant uncertainties, including those related to the timing of the implementation of emissions reduction rules, required levels of emissions reductions, requirements with respect to the allocation of emissions allowances, the maturation, regulation and commercialization of carbon capture and sequestration technology, and PGE’s compliance alternatives. Accordingly, the Company cannot estimate the effect of any such legislation on its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; the cost to comply with such requirements, however, could be material. The Company would likely seek to recover such costs through the ratemaking process. However, there can be no assurance that such recovery would be granted. Forced outages at PGE’s generating plants can increase the cost of power required to serve customers because the cost of replacement power purchased in the wholesale market generally exceeds the Company’s cost of generation. Forced outages at the Company’s generating plants could result in power costs greater than those included in customer prices. As indicated above, application of the Company’s PCAM could help mitigate adverse financial 26 Table of Contents impacts of such outages; however, full recovery is not assured. Inability to fully recover such costs in future rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. Extended maintenance and repair outages at Colstrip Unit 4 and Boardman resulted in incremental replacement power costs of $16 million in 2009. Under certain circumstances, one or more of the banks participating in PGE’s credit facilities could decline to fund an advance requested by the Company or could withdraw from participation in the credit facilities. PGE has revolving credit facilities with various banks for an aggregate amount available to the Company for general corporate purposes of $600 million. These credit facilities supplement operating cash flow and provide a primary source of liquidity. The credit facilities may also be used as backup for commercial paper borrowings. The Company is required to make certain representations to the banks each time it requests an advance under one of the credit facilities. These credit facilities are commitments on the part of the banks to make loans and, in certain cases, to issue letters of credit. However, in the event of the occurrence of certain events that could result in a material adverse change in the business, financial condition or results of operations of PGE, the Company may not be able to make certain representations, in which case the banks would not be required to lend. PGE is also subject to the risk that one or more of the participating banks may default on their obligation to make loans under the credit facilities. In addition, it is possible that the Company might not be aware of certain developments at the time it makes such a representation in connection with a request for an advance, which could cause the representation to be untrue at the time made and constitute an event of default. Such a circumstance could result in a loss of the banks’ commitments under the credit facilities and, in certain circumstances, an acceleration of repayment of any outstanding advance. Weather conditions that reduce stream flows, or unfavorable wind conditions, could adversely affect generation expected from PGE’s hydro and wind resources and increase the Company’s cost of generation or purchased power required to meet this energy gap. PGE derives a portion of its power supply from its hydroelectric facilities and from hydroelectric facilities owned by certain public utility districts in the state of Washington and the City of Portland, with whom the Company has long-term power purchase contracts. Regional rainfall and snow pack levels affect stream flows and the resulting amount of generation available from these facilities. Shortfalls in low-cost hydro production would require increased generation from the Company’s higher cost thermal plants and/or power purchases in the wholesale market, which could have an adverse effect on operating results. PGE also derives a portion of its power supply from wind resources, output from which is dependent upon wind conditions. Unfavorable wind conditions could require increased reliance on power from the Company’s other generating resources or purchased power from the wholesale market, both of which would have an adverse effect on operating results. Although the application of the PCAM could help mitigate adverse financial effects from any decrease in power provided by hydroelectric and wind resources, full recovery of any increase in power costs is not assured. Inability to fully recover such costs in future rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The effects of weather on electricity usage can adversely affect operating results. Weather conditions can adversely affect PGE’s revenues and costs, impacting the Company’s financial and operating results. Temperatures outside the normal range can affect customer demand for electricity, with 27 Table of Contents warmer-than-normal winters or cooler-than-normal summers reducing energy sales and revenues. Weather conditions are the dominant cause of usage variations from normal seasonal patterns, particularly for residential customers. Severe weather can also disrupt energy delivery and damage the Company’s transmission and distribution system. Rapid increases in load requirements resulting from unexpected adverse weather changes, particularly if coupled with transmission constraints, could adversely impact PGE’s cost and ability to meet the energy needs of its customers. Conversely, rapid decreases in load requirements could result in the sale of excess energy at depressed market prices. Measures required to comply with state and federal regulations related to emissions from thermal electric generating plants could result in increased capital expenditures and changes to PGE’s operations that could increase operating costs, reduce generating capacity and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In June 2009, the OEQC adopted a rule as part of a separate regulatory process related to haze, mercury, and the Company’s air permits that would require the installation of emissions controls at Boardman in three phases. The OEQC’s rule has been submitted to the EPA for approval as part of the SIP. The Company expects the EPA to issue a decision on the SIP in 2010. For additional information, see “Environmental Matters” in Item 1.—“Business.” Although the full impact of required state and federal remediation measures is not yet determinable, they could have an adverse effect on future operations, operating costs, and generating capacity at both Boardman and Colstrip. The Company would seek to recover through the ratemaking process any costs of additional emission control equipment or emission reduction measures that may be required. However, there can be no assurance that such recovery would be granted. In addition, PGE could be subject to litigation brought by environmental groups and other private parties alleging violations of state or federal law and seeking the imposition of penalties, damages, injunctive relief, and the closure of plants. For additional information, see Sierra Club et al. v. Portland General Electric Company in Item 3.—“Legal Proceedings.” Failure of PGE’s wholesale suppliers to perform their contractual obligations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver electricity and increase the Company’s costs. PGE relies on suppliers to deliver natural gas, coal and electricity, in accordance with short- and long-term contracts. Failure of suppliers to comply with such contracts in a timely manner could disrupt PGE’s ability to deliver electricity and require the Company to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of its customers. In addition, as these contracts expire, PGE could be unable to continue to purchase natural gas, coal or electricity on terms and conditions equivalent to those of existing agreements. Cost and availability of natural gas and coal can also impact the cost and output of the Company’s thermal generating plants. Capital expenditures and changes in operations required to comply with both existing and new environmental laws related to fish and wildlife could adversely affect PGE’s results of operations. A portion of PGE’s total energy requirement is comprised of generation from hydroelectric projects on the Columbia, Clackamas, Deschutes, and Willamette rivers. Operation of these projects is subject to extensive regulation related to the protection of fish and wildlife. The listing of various species of salmon, wildlife, and plants as threatened or endangered has resulted in significant changes to federally-authorized activities, including those of hydroelectric projects. Salmon recovery plans could include further major operational changes to the region’s hydroelectric projects, including those owned by PGE and those from which the Company purchases 28 Table of Contents power under long-term contracts. In addition, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to such facilities, which could further increase required expenditures for salmon recovery and endangered species protection and reduce the amount of hydro generation available to meet the Company’s energy requirements. The Company would likely seek recovery of any such expenditures through the ratemaking process; however, there can be no assurance that such recovery would be granted. Storms and other natural disasters could damage the Company’s facilities and disrupt delivery of electricity resulting in significant property loss, repair costs, and reduced customer satisfaction. The Company has exposure to natural disasters that can cause significant damage to its generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Such events can interrupt the delivery of electricity, increase repair and service restoration expenses, and reduce revenues. Such events, if repeated or prolonged, can also affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight. As a regulated utility, the Company is required to provide service to all customers within its service territory and generally has been afforded liability protection against customer claims related to service failures beyond the Company’s reasonable control. To the extent reasonably possible, PGE utilizes insurance to cost effectively mitigate the risk of physical loss or damage to the Company’s property, excluding transmission and distribution property, resulting from natural disasters, subject to certain coverage terms and conditions. The Company would likely seek recovery of large storm-related losses to transmission and distribution property through the ratemaking process; however, there can be no assurance that any recovery would be granted. If such recovery is not granted, these increased costs could have an adverse effect on PGE’s results of operations. PGE’s business is subject to extensive regulation that affects the Company’s operations and costs. PGE is subject to regulation by the FERC and the OPUC, and by federal, state and local authorities under environmental and other laws. Such regulation significantly influences the Company’s operating environment and affects many aspects of its business. Changes to regulations are ongoing, and the Company cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on the Company’s business. However, changes in these regulations could delay or adversely affect business planning and transactions, and substantially increase the Company’s costs. PGE has an aging workforce with a significant number of employees approaching retirement age. The Company anticipates higher averages of retirement rates over the next ten years and will likely need to replace a significant number of employees in key positions. PGE’s ability to successfully implement a workforce succession plan is dependent upon the Company’s ability to employ and retain skilled professional and technical workers. Without a skilled workforce, the Company would face greater challenges in providing quality service to its customers and meeting regulatory requirements, both of which could affect operating results. Conditions that may be imposed in connection with the renewal of hydroelectric licenses could require large capital expenditures. PGE is currently involved in renewing the federal license for its hydroelectric projects on the Clackamas River. The FERC, under the Federal Power Act, may impose conditions with respect to environmental, operating and other matters in connection with the renewal of PGE’s license. The Company cannot predict with certainty the requirements that might be imposed during the relicensing process, the economic impact of those requirements, whether a new license will ultimately be issued or whether PGE will be willing to meet the relicensing requirements to continue operating its Clackamas hydroelectric projects. The Company would likely seek recovery of any additional costs related to such licensing requirements through the ratemaking process. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 29 Table of Contents 