Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain risks and uncertainties that may affect PGE’s business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows, or that may cause the Company’s actual results to vary from the forward-looking statements contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, include those set forth below. PGE is subject to the risk that the OPUC will not allow sufficient recovery of the Company’s costs and thus not provide a reasonable rate of return to shareholders. The prices that the OPUC allows PGE to charge for its retail services is the major factor in determining the Company’s operating income, financial position, liquidity, and credit ratings. The OPUC has the authority to disallow recovery of any costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Further, the regulatory process does not provide assurance that PGE will be able to achieve earnings levels authorized. The OPUC order in the Company’s recent comprehensive general rate case, issued in January 2007, approved the use of a PCAM by which PGE can adjust future prices to reflect a portion of the difference between each year’s forecasted and actual NVPC. However, use of the approved cost sharing (“deadband”) methodology will require that PGE absorb some power cost increases before the Company is allowed to recover any amount from customers. Accordingly, future application of the PCAM is expected to only partially mitigate the potentially adverse financial impact of unplanned generating plant outages, severe weather, reduced hydro availability, and volatile wholesale energy prices. PGE faces regulatory and litigation risk with respect to recovery of the Company’s investment in the closed Trojan Nuclear Plant. There remains uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings related to PGE’s recovery of its investment in the Trojan Nuclear Plant, which was closed in 1993. For further information, see “Trojan Investment Recovery” within Legal Matters of Note 14, Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter. However, while management believes that it will not have a material adverse impact on the financial condition of the Company, it may have a material adverse impact on results of operations and cash flows for future reporting periods. The effects of weather on electricity usage can adversely affect operating results. Weather conditions can adversely affect PGE’s revenues and costs and have an impact on the Company’s financial and operating results. Temperatures outside the normal range can affect customer demand for electricity, with warmer-than-normal winters or cooler-than-normal summers reducing energy sales and revenues. Particularly for residential customers, weather conditions are the dominant cause of usage variations from normal seasonal patterns. Severe weather can also disrupt energy delivery and damage the Company’s distribution system. Rapid increases in load requirements resulting from unexpected adverse weather changes, particularly if coupled with transmission constraints, could adversely impact PGE’s cost and ability to meet the energy needs of its customers. Conversely, rapid decreases in load requirements could result in the sale of excess energy at depressed market prices. 20 Table of Contents Unplanned outages at PGE’s generating plants can increase the cost of power required to serve customers because the cost of replacement power purchased in the wholesale market generally exceeds the Company’s cost of generation. Unplanned outages at the Company’s generating plants could result in replacement power costs greater than those power costs included in customer prices, and any inability to recover such costs in future rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. As indicated above, application of the Company’s PCAM can be expected to mitigate adverse financial impacts of future unplanned outages at the Company’s generating plants. Weather conditions that reduce stream flows could adversely affect the Company’s hydro production and increase the Company’s generation or power purchase costs required to meet the shortfall. PGE derives a portion of its power supply from its hydroelectric facilities and from those owned by certain public utility districts in the State of Washington and the City of Portland, with whom the Company has long-term power purchase contracts. Regional rainfall and snow pack levels affect stream flows and the resulting amount of generation available from these facilities. Shortfalls in low-cost hydro production will require increased generation from the Company’s higher cost thermal plants and/or power purchases in the wholesale market, the adverse financial effects of which are not expected to be fully mitigated by the Company’s PCAM. Wholesale energy markets are subject to forces that are often not predictable and which can result in price volatility, deterioration of liquidity, and general market disruption, adversely affecting PGE’s costs and ability to manage its energy portfolio and procure required energy supply. Wholesale electricity prices in the western United States are influenced primarily by factors related to supply and demand. These factors include the adequacy of generating capacity, scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, hydroelectric generation levels, prices and availability of fuel sources for generation, disruptions or constraints to transmission facilities, weather conditions, economic growth, and changes in technology. Volatility in wholesale energy markets can affect the availability and price of purchased power and demand for energy. Changes in the creditworthiness of large wholesale customers can also affect PGE’s variable power costs. Further, disruption in wholesale markets may result in a deterioration of market liquidity, increase the risk of counterparty default, affect the regulatory and legislative process in unpredictable ways, affect wholesale energy prices, and impair PGE’s ability to manage its energy portfolio. Changes in wholesale energy prices also affect the market value of derivative instruments and unrealized gains and losses, as well as cash requirements to purchase electricity. Although the Company’s PCAM can be expected to partially mitigate the financial effects of adverse wholesale market conditions, cost sharing features of the mechanism do not provide for full recovery in customer prices. Market risk related to adverse fluctuations in the price of natural gas purchased as fuel for electricity generation can also impact the Company’s results of operations. PGE purchases natural gas in the open market or pursuant to short-term or variable-price contracts as part of its normal business operations. If market prices rise, especially during periods when the Company requires greater-than- expected volumes that must be purchased at market or short-term prices, PGE may incur greater costs than originally estimated. The Company may not be able to fully recover these increased costs through ratemaking. 21 Table of Contents Sustained downturns in the economy in its service territory could reduce demand for electricity and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Current and projected slowing of the Oregon and national economies could result in reduced demand for electricity that could decrease earnings and cash flow. Economic conditions can also impact the Company’s ability to collect accounts receivable. Measures required to comply with state and federal regulations related to emissions from thermal electric generating plants could result in increased capital expenditures and changes to the Company’s operations that could increase operating costs, reduce generating capacity and adversely affect PGE’s results of operations. Oregon and federal regulators are currently considering the air emission standards applicable to PGE’s thermal generating plants in Oregon as part of separate regulatory processes related to haze, mercury, and the Company’s air permits. Oregon regulators have adopted measures that will require installation of mercury controls at the Boardman coal plant. Additional emissions controls may be required at PGE’s Boardman coal plant, although specific measures will depend on the outcome of the regulators’ reviews. For further information regarding the total costs and the Company’s portion, see Environmental Matters in Item 1. - “Business.” In addition, PGE may be subject to litigation brought by environmental groups and other private parties alleging violations of state or federal law and seeking the imposition of penalties, injunctive relief, and the closure of plants. On January 15, 2008, PGE received a “notice of intent to sue” from a coalition of environmental groups alleging violations of the Clean Air Act and the Oregon State Implementation Plan relating to Boardman. The Company has not yet fully evaluated the claims referenced in the notice and cannot determine at this time its estimated exposure, if any. If the plaintiffs file their complaint and articulate their claims in greater detail, PGE will be better able to assess the likelihood, if any, that the claims will have a material adverse effect on the Company. Montana regulators have adopted strict requirements related to mercury emissions that could impact the operations of Colstrip, in which PGE has a 20% ownership interest in units 3 and 4. Although the full impact of required state and federal remediation measures is not yet determinable, they could have an adverse effect on future operations, operating costs, and generating capacity at both Boardman and Colstrip. Adverse changes in the Company’s credit ratings may negatively affect its access to the capital markets and cost of funds. Access to capital markets is important to PGE’s ability to operate. Increased scrutiny of the energy industry and the impacts of regulation, as well as changes in the Company’s financial performance, could result in credit agencies re-examining its credit rating. A ratings downgrade could increase the interest rates and fees on PGE’s revolving credit facility, increasing the cost of funding day-to-day working capital requirements, and could also require the Company to pay higher interest rates on future long-term debt. In addition, access to the commercial paper market, a principle source of short-term borrowings, could be restricted, resulting in higher interest costs. The Company’s secured and unsecured debt is currently rated at investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard and Poor’s. Should Moody’s and/or Standard and Poor’s reduce their rating on the Company’s unsecured debt to below investment grade, PGE could be subject to requests by certain wholesale counterparties to post additional performance assurance collateral. 22 Table of Contents Failure of the Company’s wholesale suppliers to perform their contractual obligations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver electricity and increase the Company’s costs. The Company relies on suppliers to deliver natural gas, coal and electricity, in accordance with short- and long-term contracts. Failure of suppliers to comply with existing contracts in a timely manner, could disrupt PGE’s ability to deliver electricity and require the Company to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of its customers. In addition, as these contractual agreements expire, PGE may be unable to continue to purchase natural gas, coal or electricity on terms and conditions equivalent to those of current agreements. Cost and availability of fuel supplies, primarily natural gas and coal, can also impact the cost and output of the Company’s thermal generating plants. The construction of new generating facilities, or modifications to existing facilities, may be subject to risks that result in disallowance of certain costs for recovery in prices, reduced plant efficiency, or higher operating costs. Increases in both the number of customers and demand for energy will require continued expansion and reinforcement of PGE’s generation, transmission, and distribution systems. Construction of new generating facilities, or modifications to existing facilities, may be affected by various factors, including unanticipated delays and cost increases, which could result in the disallowance of certain costs in the rate determination process. In addition, if construction projects are not completed according to specifications, reduced plant efficiency and higher operating costs could result. Equipment failure, the ability of generating plants to operate as intended, and other factors can result in plant performance that falls below expected levels. Capital expenditures and changes in operations required to comply with both existing and new environmental laws related to fish and wildlife could adversely affect PGE’s results of operations. A portion of PGE’s total energy requirement is comprised of generation from hydroelectric projects on the Columbia, Clackamas, Deschutes, Willamette, and Sandy rivers. Operations of these projects are subject to extensive regulation related to the protection of fish and wildlife. The listing of various species of salmon, wildlife, and plants as threatened or endangered species has resulted in significant changes to federally-authorized activities, including those of hydroelectric projects. Salmon recovery plans could include further major operational changes to the region’s hydroelectric projects, including those owned by PGE and those from which the Company purchases power under long-term contracts. In addition, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to such facilities, which could further increase required expenditures for salmon recovery and endangered species protection and reduce the amount of hydro generation available to meet the Company’s energy requirements. Legislative efforts to reduce carbon emissions, in response to concerns related to climate change and global warming, could lead to increased capital and operating costs and have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations and operating results. The outcome of legislative efforts regarding carbon dioxide emissions, whether at the federal, regional, or state level, or the timing of any such laws or regulations that may be enacted, could have a material adverse affect on future results of operations and cash flows unless the additional costs incurred to comply with such laws or regulations can be recovered through regulated rates and/or future market prices for electricity. The Company would seek to recover through the ratemaking process any capital and operating costs of additional emission control equipment or emission reduction measures, such as the cost of sequestration or purchasing allowances, or offset credits that may be required. 23 Table of Contents PGE is subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings, the outcome of which is uncertain, and resolution adverse to PGE could adversely affect the Company’s cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. From time to time in the normal course of its business, PGE is subject to various regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. These actions are subject to many uncertainties and management cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. The final resolution of some of the matters in which the Company is involved could require the Company to make additional expenditures, in excess of established reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have an adverse effect on PGE’s cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, the terms of resolution could require the Company to change its business practices and procedures, which could also have an adverse affect on PGE’s cash flows, financial position or results of operations. Certain legal and regulatory proceedings, such as the proceedings related to refunds on wholesale market transactions in the Pacific Northwest described in Note 14, Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in Item 3. - “Legal Proceedings,” may have an adverse affect on results of operations and cash flows for future reporting periods. PGE’s business is subject to extensive regulation that affects the Company’s operations and costs. PGE is subject to regulation by the FERC and the OPUC, and by federal, state and local authorities under environmental laws. Regulation affects almost every aspect of the Company’s business. Changes to these regulations are ongoing, and the Company cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on the Company’s business. However, changes in these regulations can cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and can substantially increase the Company’s costs. PGE has an aging workforce with a significant number of employees approaching retirement age. The Company anticipates higher than previous averages of retirement rates over the next ten years and may need to replace a significant number of employees in key positions. PGE’s ability to successfully implement a workforce succession plan is dependent upon the Company’s ability to employ and retain skilled professional and technical workers. Without a skilled workforce, the Company’s ability to provide quality service to its customers and meet regulatory requirements will be tested and could affect operating results. Conditions that may be imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures. PGE is currently involved in renewing the federal license for its hydroelectric projects on the Clackamas River. The FERC, under the Federal Power Act, may impose conditions with respect to environmental, operating and other matters in connection with the renewal of PGE’s license. The Company cannot predict with certainty the requirements that may be imposed during the relicensing process, the economic impact of those requirements, whether a new license will ultimately be issued or whether PGE will be willing to meet the relicensing requirements to continue operating its Clackamas hydroelectric projects. 24 Table of Contents Storms and other natural disasters could damage the Company’s facilities and disrupt its delivery of electricity resulting in significant property loss or repair costs and customer dissatisfaction. The Company has exposure to natural disasters that can cause significant physical damage to its generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Such events can interrupt the delivery of electricity, increase repair and service restoration expenses, and reduce revenues. Such events, if repeated or prolonged, can also affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight. As a regulated utility, the Company is required to provide service to all customers within its service territory and generally has been afforded liability protection under the tariff against customer claims related to service failures beyond the Company’s reasonable control. To the extent reasonably possible, the Company utilizes insurance as a means to mitigate the risk of physical loss of or damage to the Company’s property resulting from natural disasters. However, such insurance may be subject to certain coverage restrictions and deductibles. PGE is subject to political processes that may adversely affect its business. Customer groups in certain geographic areas and certain governmental entities could attempt to acquire PGE facilities and equipment in the Company’s allocated service territory through the use of public ownership initiatives, utilizing initiative petition and condemnation processes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents 