Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Note 17, Contingencies and Other Commitments, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.Relationships with Physicians and Other ProvidersAnti-Kickback Law. Various state and federal laws regulate relationships between providers of healthcare services, including management or service contracts and investment relationships. Among the most important of these restrictions is a federal law prohibiting the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of remuneration by individuals or entities to induce referrals of patients for services reimbursed under the Medicare or Medicaid programs (the “Anti-Kickback Law”). The 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws amended the federal Anti-Kickback Law to provide that proving violations of this law does not require proving actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation. Another amendment made it clear that Anti-Kickback Law violations can be the basis for claims under the False Claims Act. These changes and those described above related to the False Claims Act, when combined with other recent federal initiatives, are likely to increase investigation and enforcement efforts in the 13Table of Contentshealthcare industry generally. In addition to standard federal criminal and civil sanctions, including imprisonment and penalties of up to $50,000 for each violation plus tripled damages for improper claims, violators of the Anti-Kickback Law may be subject to exclusion from the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. In 1991, the HHS-OIG issued regulations describing compensation arrangements that are not viewed as illegal remuneration under the Anti-Kickback Law. Those regulations provide for certain safe harbors for identified types of compensation arrangements that, if fully complied with, assure participants in the particular arrangement that the HHS-OIG will not treat that participation as a criminal offense under the Anti-Kickback Law or as the basis for an exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs or the imposition of civil sanctions. Failure to fall within a safe harbor does not constitute a violation of the Anti-Kickback Law, but the HHS-OIG has indicated failure to fall within a safe harbor may subject an arrangement to increased scrutiny. A violation of the Anti-Kickback Law by us or one or more of our partnerships could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Even the assertion of a violation could have an adverse effect upon our stock price or reputation.Some of our rehabilitation hospitals are owned through joint ventures with institutional healthcare providers that may be in a position to make or influence referrals to our hospitals. In addition, we have a number of relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers, including management or service contracts. Some of these investment relationships and contractual relationships may not meet all of the regulatory requirements to fall within the protection offered by a relevant safe harbor. Despite our compliance and monitoring efforts, there can be no assurance violations of the Anti-Kickback Law will not be asserted in the future, nor can there be any assurance our defense against any such assertion would be successful.For example, we have entered into agreements to manage our hospitals that are owned by partnerships. Most of these agreements incorporate a percentage-based management fee. Although there is a safe harbor for personal services and management contracts, this safe harbor requires, among other things, the aggregate compensation paid to the manager over the term of the agreement be set in advance. Because our management fee may be based on a percentage of revenues, the fee arrangement may not meet this requirement. However, we believe our management arrangements satisfy the other requirements of the safe harbor for personal services and management contracts and comply with the Anti-Kickback Law.Physician Self-Referral Law. The federal law commonly known as the “Stark law” and CMS regulations promulgated under the Stark law prohibit physicians from making referrals for “designated health services” including inpatient and outpatient hospital services, physical therapy, occupational therapy, radiology services, and home health services, to an entity in which the physician (or an immediate family member) has an investment interest or other financial relationship, subject to certain exceptions. The Stark law also prohibits those entities from filing claims or billing Medicare for those referred services. Violators of the Stark law and regulations may be subject to recoupments, civil monetary sanctions (up to $15,000 for each violation and assessments up to three times the amount claimed for each prohibited service) and exclusion from any federal, state, or other governmental healthcare programs. The statute also provides a penalty of up to $100,000 for a circumvention scheme. There are statutory exceptions to the Stark law for many of the customary financial arrangements between physicians and providers, including personal services contracts and leases. However, in order to be afforded protection by a Stark law exception, the financial arrangement must comply with every requirement of the applicable exception.Under the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, the exception to the Stark law that currently permits physicians to refer patients to hospitals in which they have an investment or ownership interest has been dramatically limited by providing that only physician-owned hospitals with a provider agreement in place on December 31, 2010 are exempt from the general ban on self-referral. Existing physician-owned hospitals are prohibited from increasing the physician ownership percentage in the hospital after March 23, 2010. Additionally, physician-owned hospitals are prohibited from increasing the number of licensed beds after March 23, 2010, except when certain market and regulatory approval conditions are met. Currently, we have no hospitals that would be considered physician-owned under this law, except for one hospital recently acquired from Reliant which has an outside limited partner with a 0.5% equity interest.CMS has issued several phases of final regulations implementing the Stark law. On November 16, 2015, CMS issued a new rule revising, clarifying, and adding two exceptions in order to accommodate delivery and payment system reform, reduce burdens on physicians and other providers, and promote compliance. While the changes are generally expected to help providers comply with the Stark law requirements, the complexity of the law and the associated regulations will remain a challenge for healthcare providers, who do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. We attempt to structure our relationships to meet one or more exceptions to the Stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex. Accordingly, we cannot assure that every relationship complies fully with the Stark law.Additionally, no assurances can be given that any agency charged with enforcement of the Stark law and regulations might not assert a violation under the Stark law, nor can there be any assurance our defense against any such assertion would be successful or that new federal or state laws governing physician relationships, or new interpretations of existing laws governing such relationships, might not adversely affect relationships we have established with physicians or result in the imposition of 14Table of Contentspenalties on us or on particular HealthSouth hospitals or another of our providers. Even the assertion of a violation could have an adverse effect upon our stock price or reputation.HIPAAThe Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, commonly known as “HIPAA,” broadened the scope of certain fraud and abuse laws by adding several criminal provisions for healthcare fraud offenses that apply to all health benefit programs. HIPAA also added a prohibition against incentives intended to influence decisions by Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries as to the provider from which they will receive services. In addition, HIPAA created new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including the Medicare Integrity Program, and an incentive program under which individuals can receive up to $1,000 for providing information on Medicare fraud and abuse that leads to the recovery of at least $100 of Medicare funds. Penalties for violations of HIPAA include civil and criminal monetary penalties. The HHS Office of Civil Rights (“HHS-OCR”) began conducting pilot HIPAA audits of healthcare providers in 2015 and will implement a permanent program nationwide in early 2016.HIPAA and related HHS regulations contain certain administrative simplification provisions that require the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for certain healthcare claims and payment transactions submitted or received electronically. HIPAA regulations also regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health-related information, whether communicated electronically, on paper, or orally. The regulations provide patients with significant rights related to understanding and controlling how their health information is used or disclosed and require healthcare providers to implement administrative, physical, and technical practices to protect the security of individually identifiable health information that is maintained or transmitted electronically.With the enactment of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA have been modified and expanded. The HITECH Act applies certain of the HIPAA privacy and security requirements directly to business associates of covered entities. The modifications to existing HIPAA requirements include: expanded accounting requirements for electronic health records, tighter restrictions on marketing and fundraising, and heightened penalties and enforcement associated with noncompliance. Significantly, the HITECH Act also establishes new mandatory federal requirements for notification of breaches of security involving protected health information. HHS is responsible for enforcing the requirement that covered entities notify any individual whose protected health information has been improperly acquired, accessed, used, or disclosed. In certain cases, notice of a breach is required to be made to HHS and media outlets. The heightened penalties for noncompliance range from $100 to $50,000 per violation for most violations. In the event of violations due to willful neglect that are not corrected within 30 days, penalties start at $50,000 per violation and are not subject to a per violation statutory maximum. All penalties are subject to a $1,500,000 cap for multiple identical violations in a single calendar year. Willful neglect could include the failure to conduct a security risk assessment or adequately implement HIPAA compliance policies.On January 17, 2013, the HHS-OCR issued a final rule, with a compliance date of September 23, 2013, to implement the HITECH Act and make other modifications to the HIPAA and HITECH regulations. This rule expanded the potential liability for a breach involving protected health information to cover some instances where a subcontractor is responsible for the breaches and that individual or entity was acting within the scope of delegated authority under the related contract or engagement. The final rule generally defines “breach” to mean the acquisition, access, use or disclosure of protected health information in a manner not permitted by the HIPAA privacy standards, which compromises the security or privacy of protected health information. Under the final rule, improper acquisition, access, use, or disclosure is presumed to be a reportable breach, unless the potentially breaching party can demonstrate a low probability that protected health information has been compromised. On the whole, it appears the changes to the breach reporting rules could increase breach reporting in the healthcare industry.In addition, there are numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy concerns. Healthcare providers will continue to remain subject to any federal or state privacy-related laws that are more restrictive than the privacy regulations issued under HIPAA. These laws vary and could impose additional penalties. Any actual or perceived violation of privacy-related laws and regulations, including HIPAA and the HITECH Act, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Available InformationOur website address is www.healthsouth.com. We make available through our website the following documents, free of charge: our annual reports (Form 10-K), our quarterly reports (Form 10-Q), our current reports (Form 8-K), and any amendments to those reports promptly after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to the information that is available on our website, the reader may review and 15Table of Contentscopy any materials we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The reader may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which includes reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC.Item 1A.Risk FactorsOur business, operations, and financial position are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and the reader should take such risks into account in evaluating HealthSouth or any investment decision involving HealthSouth. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our industry, or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning other risk factors as well as those described below is contained in other sections of this annual report.Reductions or changes in reimbursement from government or third-party payors could adversely affect our Net operating revenues and other operating results.We derive a substantial portion of our Net operating revenues from the Medicare program. See Item 1, Business, “Sources of Revenues,” for a table identifying the sources and relative payor mix of our revenues. In addition to many ordinary course reimbursement rate changes that the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), adopts each year as part of its annual rulemaking process for various healthcare provider categories, Congress and some state legislatures have periodically proposed significant changes in laws and regulations governing the healthcare system. Many of these changes have resulted in limitations on the increases in and, in some cases, significant roll-backs or reductions in the levels of payments to healthcare providers for services under many government reimbursement programs. There can be no assurance that future governmental initiatives will not result in pricing roll-backs or freezes or reimbursement reductions.In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (as subsequently amended, the “2010 Healthcare Reform Laws”). Many provisions within the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws have impacted or could in the future impact our business, including: (1) Medicare reimbursement reductions, such as reductions to annual market basket updates to providers and reimbursement rate rebasing adjustments; (2) the possible combining, or “bundling,” of reimbursement for a Medicare beneficiary’s episode of care at some point in the future; (3) implementing a voluntary program for accountable care organizations (“ACOs”); and (4) creating an Independent Payment Advisory Board.For our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, these laws include reductions in CMS’s annual adjustments to Medicare reimbursement rates by what is commonly known as a “market basket update.” In accordance with Medicare laws and statutes, CMS makes market basket updates by provider type. The reductions in the annual market basket updates for our hospitals continue through 2019 for each CMS fiscal year, which for us begins October 1, as follows:2016 2017-190.2% 0.75%In addition, the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws require the market basket update for our hospitals to be reduced by a productivity adjustment on an annual basis. The productivity adjustments equal the trailing 10-year average of changes in annual economy-wide private nonfarm business multi-factor productivity. The productivity adjustment in effect for fiscal year (October 1 to September 30) 2016 is a decrease to the market basket update of 50 basis points.For home health agencies, the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws directed CMS to improve home health payment accuracy through rebasing home health payments over four years starting in 2014. The rebasing adjustment for calendar year 2016 (the third year of the four-year phase-in) offset the annual market basket update of 2.3% with a 2.4% reduction. CMS is also implementing a case-mix coding intensity reduction of 90 basis points in 2016. In addition, the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws also require an annual home health productivity adjustment. For calendar year 2016, that adjustment is a decrease to the market basket update of 40 basis points. For hospice agencies, the 2010 Healthcare Reform laws require, in addition to an annual productivity adjustment, further reduction of the annual market basket update of 30 basis points for fiscal years through 2019. The hospice productivity adjustment for the fiscal year beginning October 1, 2015 was a decrease to the market basket update of 50 basis points.Other federal legislation can also have a significant direct impact on our Medicare reimbursement. On August 2, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which provided for an automatic 2% reduction of Medicare 16Table of Contentsprogram payments. This automatic reduction, known as “sequestration,” which began affecting payments received after April 1, 2013, reduced the payments we receive under the inpatient rehabilitation facility prospective payment system (the “IRF-PPS”) resulting in a net year-over-year decrease in our Net operating revenues of approximately $9 million in 2014. The effect of sequestration on year-over-year comparisons of Net operating revenues ceased on April 1, 2014. However, each year through 2025, the reimbursement we receive from Medicare, after first taking into account all annual payment adjustments including the market basket update, will be reduced by sequestration unless it is repealed before then.Additionally, concerns held by federal policymakers about the federal deficit and national debt levels could result in enactment of further federal spending reductions, further entitlement reform legislation affecting the Medicare program, and/or further reductions to provider payments. For example, on April 16, 2015, the President signed into law the Medicare Access and CHIP (Children’s Health Insurance Program) Reauthorization Act, which repealed the statutory mechanism providing for annual automatic adjustments to the Medicare physician fee schedule using a sustainable growth rate formula that has historically resulted in annual deep cuts to physician reimbursement rates, a consequence of which has been the so-called “doc fixes” passed by Congress annually since 2002 to override those automatic adjustments. The primary impact of this act on us is a mandated market basket update of +1.0% in 2018 for rehabilitation hospitals as well as home health and hospice agencies.In October 2014, the President signed into law the Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act of 2014 (the “IMPACT Act”). The IMPACT Act was developed on a bi-partisan basis by the House Ways and Means and Senate Finance Committees and incorporated feedback from healthcare providers and provider organizations that responded to the Committees’ solicitation of post-acute payment reform ideas and proposals. It directs the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), in consultation with healthcare stakeholders, to implement standardized data collection processes for post-acute quality and outcome measures. Although the IMPACT Act does not specifically call for the development of a new post-acute payment system, we believe this act will lay the foundation for possible future post-acute payment policies that would be based on patients’ medical conditions and other clinical factors rather than the setting where the care is provided. It will create additional data reporting requirements for our hospitals and home health and hospice agencies. The precise details of these new reporting requirements, including timing and content, will be developed and implemented by CMS through the regulatory process that we expect will take place over the next several years. We cannot quantify the potential effects of the IMPACT Act on us.Each year, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (“MedPAC”), an independent agency, advises Congress on issues affecting Medicare and makes payment policy recommendations to Congress for a variety of Medicare payment systems including, among others, the IRF-PPS, the home health prospective payment system (“HH-PPS”) and the hospice prospective payment system. MedPAC also provides comments to CMS on proposed rules, including the prospective payment system rules. Congress is not obligated to adopt MedPAC recommendations, and, based on outcomes in previous years, there can be no assurance Congress will adopt MedPAC’s recommendations in a given year. However, MedPAC’s recommendations have, and may in the future, become the basis for subsequent legislative or regulatory action.In connection with CMS’s final rulemaking for the 2016 HH-PPS, MedPAC recommended, among other things, legislative changes to make the rebasing cuts larger in size to further reduce margins and the overhaul of the HH-PPS to pay providers based on patient characteristics in lieu of the number of therapy services furnished. MedPAC also recommended that CMS not provide for a market basket update in the 2016 IRF-PPS. This year, MedPAC approved recommendations to eliminate the market basket update for each of the IRF-PPS, the HH-PPS and the Hospice-PPS for 2017.We cannot predict what alternative or additional deficit reduction initiatives, Medicare payment reductions, or post-acute care reforms, if any, will ultimately be enacted into law, or the timing or effect of any initiatives or reductions. Those initiatives or reductions would be in addition to many ordinary course reimbursement rate changes that CMS adopts each year as part of the market basket update rulemaking process for various provider categories. There can be no assurance future governmental action will not result in substantial changes to, or material reductions in, our reimbursements. In any given year, the net effect of the changes may result in a decrease in our reimbursement rate, and that decrease may occur at a time when our expenses are increasing. As a result, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. For additional discussion of how we are reimbursed by Medicare, see Item 1, Business, “Regulatory and Reimbursement Challenges” and “Sources of Revenues—Medicare Reimbursement.”In addition, there are increasing pressures, including as a result of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, from many third-party payors to control healthcare costs and to reduce or limit increases in reimbursement rates for medical services. Our relationships with managed care and nongovernmental third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, are generally governed by negotiated agreements. These agreements set forth the amounts we are entitled to receive for our services. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if we are unable to negotiate and maintain favorable agreements with third-party payors. 17Table of ContentsThe ongoing evolution of the healthcare delivery system, including alternative payment models and value-based purchasing initiatives, in the United States may significantly affect our business and results of operations.The healthcare industry in general is facing uncertainty associated with the efforts, primarily arising from initiatives such as payment bundling and ACOs included in the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, to identify and implement workable coordinated care and integrated payment delivery models. In a coordinated care delivery model, hospitals, physicians, and other care providers are reimbursed in a fashion meant to encourage the provision of coordinated healthcare on a more efficient, patient-centered basis. These providers are then paid based on the overall value of the services they provide to a patient rather than the number of services they provide. While this is consistent with our goal and proven track record of being a high-quality, cost-effective provider, broad-based implementation of a new delivery model would represent a significant evolution or transformation of the healthcare industry, which may have a significant impact on our business and results of operations.The 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws directed HHS to examine the feasibility of bundling, including conducting a voluntary, multi-year bundling pilot program to test and evaluate alternative payment methodologies. There are four project types or models: acute care only, acute/post-acute, post-acute only (Model 3), and acute and physician services. In the initial non-risk bearing stage of the bundling program (Phase 1), pilot participants received data from CMS on care patterns and engaged in shared learning in how to improve care. The second phase (Phase 2) requires participants, pending contract finalization and completion of the standard CMS program integrity reviews, to take on financial risk for episodes of care. Eight of our hospitals began participating in Phase 2, the “at-risk” phase, of Model 3 of CMS’ voluntary Bundled Payments for Care Improvement (“BPCI”) initiative in 2015. We also have several hospitals that have signed participation agreements with acute care providers participating in Model 2 of the BPCI initiative. Ten of Encompass’s home health agencies began participating in Phase 2 of Model 3 in 2014. In July 2015, 42 additional home health agencies began participating in Phase 2. Similarly, CMS has established per the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws several separate ACO programs, the largest of which is the Medicare Shared Savings Program (“MSSP”), a voluntary ACO program in which hospitals, physicians, and other care providers pursue the delivery of coordinated healthcare on a more efficient, patient-centered basis. Conceptually, ACOs receive a portion of any savings generated above a certain threshold from care coordination as long as benchmarks for the quality of care are maintained. Under the MSSP, there are two different ACO tracks from which participants can choose. The first track allows ACOs to share only in the savings. The second track requires ACOs to share in any savings and losses but offers ACOs a greater share of any savings realized than the first track offers. The ACO rules adopted by CMS are extremely complex and remain subject to further refinement by CMS. According to CMS, there are 477 ACOs serving almost 8.9 million beneficiaries as of January 2016. We continue to evaluate, on a case-by-case basis, appropriate ACO participation opportunities for our hospitals, home health agencies, and patients. To date, we have signed two ACO participation agreements for our hospitals. Encompass has also partnered as the exclusive preferred home health provider with Premier PHC™, an ACO serving approximately 20,000 Medicare patients.In January 2015, HHS announced it set various goals with respect to tying Medicare reimbursements to alternative payment models and value-based purchasing. Specifically, HHS set goals of tying 30 percent of traditional, or fee-for-service, Medicare payments to quality or value through alternative payment models, such as ACOs or bundled payment arrangements, by the end of 2016 and tying 50 percent of payments to those models by the end of 2018. HHS also set goals of tying 85 and 90 percent of traditional Medicare payments to quality or value by the end of 2016 and 2018, respectively, through programs such as those that include financial incentives for reducing acute care hospital readmissions. On November 16, 2015, CMS issued its final rule establishing the Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (“CJR”) payment model. This mandatory model holds acute care hospitals accountable for the quality of care they deliver to Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries for lower extremity joint replacements (i.e., knees and hips) from surgery through recovery. Through the five-year payment model, healthcare providers in 67 geographic areas would continue to be paid under existing Medicare payment systems. However, the hospital where the joint replacement takes place would be held accountable for the quality and costs of care for the entire episode of care — from the time of the surgery through 90 days after discharge. Depending on the quality and cost performance during the entire episode, the hospital may receive an additional payment or be required to repay Medicare for a portion of the episode costs. As a result, the acute care hospitals are incented to work with physicians and post-acute care providers to ensure beneficiaries receive the coordinated care they need in an efficient manner. The bundling and ACO initiatives have served as motivating factors for regulators and healthcare industry participants to identify and implement workable coordinated care delivery models. Broad-based implementation of a new delivery model would represent a significant transformation for us and the healthcare industry generally. The nature and timing of the evolution or transformation of the current healthcare system to coordinated care delivery and payment models is uncertain and will likely remain so for some time. The development of new delivery and payment systems will almost certainly take significant time and 18Table of Contentsexpense. Many of the alternative approaches being explored may not work or could change substantially prior to a nationwide implementation. Additionally, as the number and types of bundling and ACO models increase, the number of Medicare beneficiaries who are treated in one of the models increases. Our willingness and ability to participate in coordinated care delivery and alternative payment models and the referral patterns of other providers participating in those models may affect our access to Medicare patients who would benefit from treatment in inpatient rehabilitation hospitals or from the services Encompass offers. For further discussion of new coordinated care delivery and payment models, the associated challenges, and our efforts to respond to them, see the “Executive Overview—Key Challenges—Changes to Our Operating Environment Resulting from Healthcare Reform” section of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Other legislative and regulatory initiatives and changes affecting the industry could adversely affect our business and results of operations.In addition to the legislative and regulatory actions that directly affect our reimbursement rates or further the evolution of the current healthcare delivery system, other legislative and regulatory changes, including as a result of ongoing healthcare reform, affect healthcare providers like us from time to time. The 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws establish the Independent Payment Advisory Board appointed by the President that is charged with presenting proposals to Congress to reduce Medicare expenditures upon the occurrence of Medicare expenditures exceeding a certain level. This board will have broad authority to develop new Medicare policies (including changes to provider reimbursement). In general, unless Congress acts to block the proposals of this board, CMS will implement the policy recommendations. However, due to the market basket reductions that are also part of these laws, certain healthcare providers, such as our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, will not be subject to payment reduction proposals developed by this board and presented to Congress until 2020. While most of our operations may not be subject to its payment reduction proposals for a period of time, based on the scope of this board’s directive to reduce Medicare expenditures and the significance of Medicare as a payor to us, other decisions made by this board may adversely impact our results of operations, including reductions in the payment for home health services. As of December 31, 2015, the Independent Payment Advisory Board members have not been appointed.The 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws include other provisions that could adversely affect us as well. They include the expansion of the federal Anti-Kickback Law and the False Claims Act that, when combined with other recent federal initiatives, are likely to increase investigation and enforcement efforts in the healthcare industry generally. Changes include increased resources for enforcement, lowered burden of proof for the government in healthcare fraud matters, expanded definition of claims under the False Claims Act, enhanced penalties, and increased rewards for relators in successful prosecutions. CMS may also suspend payment for claims prospectively if, in its opinion, credible allegations of fraud exist. The initial suspension period may be up to P180D days. However, the payment suspension period can be extended almost indefinitely if the matter is under investigation by the HHS Office of Inspector General (the “HHS-OIG”) or the United States Department of Justice (the “DOJ”). Any such suspension would adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Some states in which we operate have also undertaken, or are considering, healthcare reform initiatives that address similar issues. While many of the stated goals of other federal and state reform initiatives are consistent with our own goal to provide care that is high-quality and cost-effective, legislation and regulatory proposals may lower reimbursements, increase the cost of compliance, decrease patient volumes, and otherwise adversely affect our business. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be enacted, implemented or amended, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us.On October 29, 2015, CMS issued a proposed rule relating to requirements for discharge planning for hospitals and home health agencies as called for by the IMPACT Act. The proposed rule would revise the discharge planning requirements applicable to our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and Encompass home health agencies. CMS proposes to require hospitals (including inpatient rehabilitation facilities (“IRFs”)) to have a discharge planning process that focuses on patients’ goals and preferences and on preparing them and, as appropriate, their caregivers, to be active partners in their post-discharge care. For our hospitals, the proposed rule would require development of standardized procedures pertaining to the development and finalization of unique discharge plans for all patients. CMS proposes that discharge instructions must be provided at the time of discharge to patients, or the patient’s caregiver or both, who are discharged home or who are referred to other post-acute care services, and that any post-discharge practitioners or providers must receive the patient’s discharge instructions at the time of discharge, including the patient’s discharge summary within 48 hours of discharge and any test results within 24 hours of availability. 19Table of ContentsFor home health agencies, the proposed rule includes several new requirements. The discharge planning process would require the regular re-evaluation of patients to identify changes requiring modification of the discharge plan. The physician responsible for a patient’s plan of care would have to be involved in the ongoing establishment of the discharge plan. Home health agencies must also send certain specified medical and other information to the post-discharge facility or health care practitioner. The proposed rule would likely require the modification of existing discharge forms and reports, and patient visits may need to be extended in order to accommodate patient education. If adopted as proposed, we would expect to incur additional one-time and recurring expenses to comply, but at this time, we cannot predict what the final requirements will be or the timing or effect of those requirements.Under the authorization granted in the IMPACT Act, in January 2016, CMS released draft specifications for new Medicare spending per beneficiary measures to be tracked and reported by CMS for each IRF, skilled nursing facility, long-term acute care hospital and home health agency. The intent of tracking and publishing this data is to evaluate a given provider’s payment efficiency relative to the efficiency of the national median provider in that provider’s post-acute segment. CMS believes this measure will encourage improved efficiency and coordination of care in the post-acute setting by holding providers accountable for Medicare resource use during an episode of care. However, the proposed measures do not take into account patient outcomes. CMS has not proposed to compare payment efficiency across provider segments. Per the IMPACT Act, these spending per beneficiary measures must be finalized and effective by October 1, 2016 for IRFs and by January 1, 2017 for home health agencies.In January 2016, CMS extended a temporary moratorium on the enrollment of new home health agencies and branch locations. CMS established the moratorium in July 2013, and the latest extension is set to expire in July 2016 unless it is again extended. It applies to six metropolitan areas, including Houston and Dallas where Encompass has several locations. On February 5, 2016, CMS published a notice in the federal register detailing two proposed home health regulatory initiatives: 1) establishment of a new demonstration project under which it would require home health providers to seek prior authorization before submitting claims for services in Florida, Texas, Illinois, Michigan, and Massachusetts and 2) an extension of the Medicare probable fraud pilot. In the demonstration project, CMS proposes to have Medicare contractors collect additional information from home health providers submitting claims in order to determine proper payment or if there is a suspicion of fraud. In the pilot, CMS proposes to collect information from home health agencies, referring physicians and patients in a random national sampling of claims to establish a baseline estimate of probable fraud in Medicare home health billings. As discussed above, MedPAC makes healthcare policy recommendations to Congress and provides comments to CMS on Medicare payment related issues. Congress is not obligated to adopt MedPAC’s recommendations, and, based on outcomes in previous years, there can be no assurance Congress will adopt any given MedPAC recommendation. For example, in January 2016, MedPAC released materials discussing several possible changes, some of which MedPAC has advocated previously, to various post-acute payment systems. One of the possible changes reported on was the development of a unified payment system for all post-acute care in lieu of separate systems for IRFs, skilled nursing facilities, long-term acute care hospitals, and home health agencies. MedPAC expects to issue a report on this in April 2016, including providing details of alternative models that could be used to test a unified payment system, and has stated it would expect IRF payments to decrease under a unified payment system. Another possible change reported on was an increase of outlier payments to be funded by reductions to non-outlier payments rates under the IRF-PPS.We cannot predict what legislative or regulatory reforms or changes, if any, will ultimately be enacted, or the timing or effect any of those changes or reforms will have on us. If enacted, they may be challenging for all providers and have the effect of limiting Medicare beneficiaries’ access to healthcare services and could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. For additional discussion of healthcare reform and other factors affecting reimbursement for our services, see Item 1, Business, “Regulatory and Reimbursement Challenges” and “Sources of Revenues—Medicare Reimbursement.” 20Table of ContentsQuality reporting requirements may negatively impact the Medicare reimbursement we receive.The focus on alternative payment models and value-based purchasing of healthcare services has, in turn, led to more extensive quality of care reporting requirements. In many cases, the new reporting requirements are linked to reimbursement incentives. For example, under the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, CMS established new quality data reporting, effective October 1, 2012, for all IRFs. A facility’s failure to submit the required quality data results in a two percentage point reduction to that facility’s annual market basket increase factor for payments made for discharges in the subsequent Medicare fiscal year. Hospitals began submitting quality data to CMS in October 2012. All of our hospitals met the reporting deadlines occurring on or before December 31, 2014 resulting in no corresponding reimbursement reductions for fiscal years 2015 and 2016. Similarly, home health and hospice agencies are also required to submit quality data to CMS each year, and the failure to do so in accordance with the rules will result in a two percentage point reduction in their market basket update. To date, none of Encompass’s home health and hospice agencies have incurred a reduction in their reimbursement rates.As noted above, the IMPACT Act mandated that CMS adopt several new quality reporting measures for the various post-acute provider types. For example, CMS recently adopted six additional IRF quality reporting measures, the reporting of which beginning on October 1, 2016 will require additional time and expense and could affect reimbursement beginning October 1, 2017. In healthcare generally, the burdens associated with collecting, recording, and reporting quality data are increasing. Home health providers are now subject to tracking and reporting 79 CMS-sanctioned quality reporting measures. The 2016 HH Rule establishes a Home Health Value-Based Purchasing model in nine states, which will include five performance years beginning January 1, 2016 and test whether incentives for better care can improve outcomes in the delivery of home health services. The model would apply a reduction or increase to current home health agency payments, depending on quality performance, made to agencies in Massachusetts, Maryland, North Carolina, Florida, Washington, Arizona, Iowa, Nebraska, and Tennessee. Payment adjustments would be applied on an annual basis, beginning at 3% and increasing to 8% in later years of the initiative.There can be no assurance all of our hospitals and agencies will continue to meet quality reporting requirements in the future which may result in one or more of our hospitals or agencies seeing a reduction in its Medicare reimbursements. Regardless, we, like other healthcare providers, are likely to incur additional expenses in an effort to comply with additional and changing quality reporting requirements. Compliance with the extensive laws and government regulations applicable to healthcare providers requires substantial time, effort and expense, and if we fail to comply with them, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.Healthcare providers are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things:•licensure, certification, and accreditation;•policies, either at the national or local level, delineating what conditions must be met to qualify for reimbursement under Medicare (also referred to as coverage requirements);•coding and billing for services;•requirements of the 60% compliance threshold under the 2007 Medicare Act;•relationships with physicians and other referral sources, including physician self-referral and anti-kickback laws;•quality of medical care;•use and maintenance of medical supplies and equipment;•maintenance and security of patient information and medical records;•acquisition and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances; and•disposal of medical and hazardous waste.In the future, changes in these laws or regulations or the manner in which they are enforced could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our hospitals, equipment, 21Table of Contentspersonnel, services, capital expenditure programs, operating procedures, and contractual arrangements, as well as the way in which we deliver home health and hospice services. Those changes could also affect reimbursements as well as future training and staffing costs. In addition to specific compliance-related laws and regulations, examples of regulatory changes that can affect our business, beyond direct changes to Medicare reimbursement rates, can be found from time to time in CMS’s annual rulemaking. The final rule for the fiscal year 2010 IRF-PPS implemented new coverage requirements which provided in part that a patient medical record must document a reasonable expectation that, at the time of admission to an IRF, the patient generally required and was able to participate in the intensive rehabilitation therapy services uniquely provided at IRFs. CMS has also taken the position that a patient’s medical file must appropriately document the rationale for the use of group therapies, as opposed to one-on-one therapy. As previously noted, the appropriate utilization of group therapy was a focus of recent HHS-OIG work plans. Beginning on October 1, 2015, a new data collection requirement will go into effect that will capture the minutes and mode (individual, group, concurrent, or co-treatment) of therapy by specialty. CMS plans to use this data to potentially support future rulemaking in this area. Additionally, the final rules for the fiscal years 2014 and 2015 IRF-PPS include changes, effective October 1, 2015, to the list of medical conditions, including a reduction in the number of conditions, that will presumptively count toward the 60% compliance threshold to qualify for reimbursement as an inpatient rehabilitation hospital.Of note, the HHS-OIG each year releases a work plan that identifies areas of compliance focus for the coming year. In recent years, HHS-OIG work plans for IRFs have focused on, among other items, the appropriate utilization of concurrent and group therapy and adverse and temporary harm events occurring in IRFs. The 2016 work plan indicates HHS-OIG will focus on appropriate documentation to support claims by IRFs and the home health agencies. For hospice agencies, the 2016 work plan focuses on reviews of beneficiaries’ plans of care and determine whether they meet key requirements and medical records to address concerns that a level of hospice care is being billed when that level of service is not medically necessary.As the recent HHS-OIG work plans demonstrate, the clarity and completeness of each patient medical file, some of which is the work product of a physician not employed by us, are essential to demonstrating our compliance with various regulatory and reimbursement requirements. For example, to support the determination that a patient’s IRF treatment was reasonable and necessary, the file must contain, among other things, an admitting physician’s assessment of the patient as well as a post-admission assessment by the treating physician and other information from clinicians relating to the plan of care and the therapies being provided. These physicians exercise their independent medical judgment. We and our hospital medical directors, who are independent contractors, provide training to the physicians we work with on a regular basis regarding appropriate documentation. In connection with subsequent payment audits and investigations, there can be no assurance as to what opinion a third party may take regarding the status of patient files or the physicians’ medical judgment evidenced in those files.On March 4, 2013, we received document subpoenas from an office of the HHS-OIG addressed to four of our hospitals. Those subpoenas also requested complete copies of medical records for 100 patients treated at each of those hospitals between September 2008 and June 2012. The investigation is being conducted by the United States Department of Justice (the “DOJ”). On April 24, 2014, we received document subpoenas relating to an additional seven of our hospitals. The new subpoenas reference substantially similar investigation subject matter as the original subpoenas and request materials from the period January 2008 through December 2013. Two of the four hospitals addressed in the original set of subpoenas have received supplemental subpoenas to cover this new time period. The most recent subpoenas do not include requests for specific patient files. However, in February 2015, the DOJ requested the voluntary production of the medical records of an additional 70 patients, some of whom were treated in hospitals not subject to the subpoenas, and we provided these records.All of the subpoenas are in connection with an investigation of alleged improper or fraudulent claims submitted to Medicare and Medicaid and requests documents and materials relating to practices, procedures, protocols and policies, of certain pre- and post-admissions activities at these hospitals including, among other things, marketing functions, pre-admission screening, post-admission physician evaluations, patient assessment instruments, individualized patient plans of care, and compliance with the Medicare 60% rule. Under the Medicare rule commonly referred to as the “60% rule,” an inpatient rehabilitation hospital must treat 60% or more of its patients from at least one of a specified list of medical conditions in order to be reimbursed at the inpatient rehabilitation hospital payment rates, rather than at the lower acute care hospital payment rates. We are currently unable to predict the timing or outcome of these investigations, and the DOJ has expressly reserved its right to make additional requests.Although we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial time, effort, and expense in implementing and maintaining training programs as well as internal controls and procedures designed to ensure regulatory compliance, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to return portions of reimbursements for discharges deemed after the fact to have not been appropriate under the IRF-PPS. We could also be subjected to other liabilities, including (1) criminal penalties, (2) civil penalties, including monetary penalties and the loss of our licenses to operate one or more of our 22Table of Contentshospitals, and (3) exclusion or suspension of one or more of our hospitals from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs, which, if lengthy in duration and material to us, could potentially trigger a default under our credit agreement. Because Medicare comprises a significant portion of our Net operating revenues, it is important for us to remain compliant with the laws and regulations governing the Medicare program and related matters including anti-kickback and anti-fraud requirements. As discussed above in connection with the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, the federal government has in the last couple of years made compliance enforcement and fighting healthcare fraud top priorities. In the past few years, the DOJ and HHS as well as federal lawmakers have significantly increased efforts to ensure strict compliance with various reimbursement related regulations as well as combat healthcare fraud. The DOJ has pursued and recovered a record amount of taxpayer dollars lost to healthcare fraud. Additionally, the federal government has become increasingly aggressive in asserting that incidents of erroneous billing or record keeping represent a violation of the False Claims Act. Human error and oversight in record keeping and documentation, particularly where those activities are the responsibility of non-employees, are always a risk in business, and the healthcare industry and independent physicians are no different.Reductions in reimbursements, substantial damages and other remedies assessed against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Even the assertion of a violation, depending on its nature, could have a material adverse effect upon our stock price or reputation.Reimbursement claims are subject to various audits from time to time and such audits may negatively impact our operations and our cash flows from operations.Reimbursement claims made by health care providers, including inpatient rehabilitation hospitals as well as home health and hospice agencies, are subject to audit from time to time by governmental payors and their agents, such as the Medicare Administrative Contractors (“MACs”) that act as fiscal intermediaries for all Medicare billings, and insurance carriers, as well as the OIG, CMS and state Medicaid programs. As noted above, the clarity and completeness of each patient medical file, some of which is the work product of a physician not employed by us, is essential to successfully challenging any payment denials. If the physicians working with our patients do not adequately document, among other things, their diagnoses and plans of care, our risks related to audits and payment denials in general are greater. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and liquidity. With respect to the Medicare program, from which we receive a substantial portion of our revenues, certain of our MACs, under programs known as “widespread probes,” have conducted pre-payment claim reviews of our Medicare billings and in some cases denied payment for certain diagnosis codes. A substantial majority of the denials we have encountered in these probes derive from one MAC. In connection with recent probes, this MAC has made determinations regarding medical necessity which represent its uniquely restrictive interpretations of the CMS coverage rules. We have discussed our objections to those interpretations with both the MAC and CMS. We cannot predict what, if any, changes will result from those discussions.CMS has developed and instituted various audit programs under which CMS contracts with private companies to conduct claims and medical record audits. These audits are in addition to those conducted by existing MACs. Some contractors are paid a percentage of the overpayments recovered. One type of audit contractor, the Recovery Audit Contractors (”RACs”), receive claims data directly from MACs on a monthly or quarterly basis and are authorized to review claims up to three years from the date a claim was paid, beginning with claims filed on or after October 1, 2007. Beginning May 15, 2015, CMS limited the recovery auditor look back period to six months from the date of service in cases where the hospital submits the claim within three months of the date of service. RAC audits of IRFs initially focused on coding errors, but have subsequently been expanded to medical necessity reviews. In connection with CMS approved and announced RACs audits related to IRFs, we received requests in 2014 and 2013 to review certain patient files for discharges occurring from 2010 to 2014. These post-payment RAC audits are focused on medical necessity requirements for admission to IRFs rather than targeting a specific diagnosis code as in previous pre-payment audits. Medical necessity is an assessment by an independent physician of a patient’s ability to tolerate and benefit from intensive multi-disciplinary therapy provided in an IRF setting. To date, the Medicare payments that are subject to these RAC audit requests represent less than 1% of our Medicare patient discharges from 2010 to 2014. We have appealed substantially all RAC denials arising from these audits using the same process we follow for appealing denials of certain diagnosis codes by MACs. CMS has previously operated a demonstration project that expanded the RAC program to include prepayment review of Medicare fee-for-service claims from primarily acute care hospitals. It is unclear whether CMS intends to continue RAC prepayment reviews and if so, what providers and claims would be the focus of those reviews.CMS has also established contractors known as the Zone Program Integrity Contractors (“ZPICs”). These contractors are successors to the Program Safeguard Contractors and conduct audits with a focus on potential fraud and abuse issues. Like 23Table of Contentsthe RACs, the ZPICs conduct audits and have the ability to refer matters to the HHS-OIG or the DOJ. Unlike RACs, however, ZPICs do not receive a specific financial incentive based on the amount of the error.Audits may lead to assertions that we have been underpaid or overpaid by Medicare or submitted improper claims in some instances, require us to incur additional costs to respond to requests for records and defend the validity of payments and claims, and ultimately require us to refund any amounts determined to have been overpaid or disallow reimbursement. Additionally, if the MAC discussed above continues to deny a significant number of claims for certain diagnosis codes, we may experience similar difficulties. As a result, we may suffer reduced profitability, and we may have to elect not to accept patients and conditions we believe can benefit from inpatient rehabilitation. We cannot predict when or how these audit programs will affect us.Our third-party payors may also, from time to time, request audits of the amounts paid, or to be paid, to us. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if the auditing payor alleges substantial overpayments were made to us due to coding errors or lack of documentation to support medical necessity determinations.Delays in the administrative appeals process associated with denied Medicare reimbursement claims may delay or reduce receipt of the related reimbursement amounts for services previously provided.Ordinary course Medicare pre-payment denials by MACs, as well as denials resulting from widespread probes and audits, are subject to appeal by providers. We have historically appealed a majority of our denials. For claims we choose to appeal to an administrative law judge, we have historically experienced a greater than 70% success rate. However, the appeals adjudication process established by CMS has encountered significant delays in recent years. For example, most of our appeals heard by an administrative law judge in 2015 related to denials received in 2011 and 2012. We believe the process for resolving individual Medicare payment claims that are denied will continue to take in excess of three years. Additionally, the number of new denials far exceeds the number of appeals resolved in recent years as shown in the following summary of our inpatient rehabilitation segment activity: New Denials Collections of Previously Denied Claims Provision for Doubtful Accounts for Denial Activity (In Millions)2015$79.0 $15.0 $20.6201452.5 14.1 14.0We record our estimates for pre-payment denials, including those resulting from widespread probes, and for post-payment audit denials that will ultimately not be collected in the Provision for doubtful accounts. See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, “Net Operating Revenues,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Given the continuing or increasing delays along with the increasing number of denials in the backlog, we may experience increases in the Provision for doubtful accounts, decreases in cash flow as a result of increasing accounts receivable, and/or a shift in the patients and conditions we treat, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Although there is legislation proposed in Congress, the goal of which is to reform and improve the Medicare audit and appeals process, we cannot predict what, if any, legislation will be adopted or what, if any, effect that legislation might have on the audit and appeals process.Changes in our payor mix or the acuity of our patients could adversely impact our revenues or our profitability.Many factors affect pricing of our services and, in turn, our revenues. For example, in the inpatient rehabilitation segment, these factors include, among other things, the treating facility’s urban or rural status, the length of stay, the payor and its applicable rate of reimbursement, and the patient’s medical condition and impairment status (acuity). In 2015, our inpatient rehabilitation segment experienced a shift in payor mix to a slightly larger percentage of Medicaid patients and a shift to a slightly lower average acuity for our patients, both of which adversely affected pricing growth. For additional discussion of these impacts in 2015, see the “Segment Results of Operations—Inpatient Rehabilitation—Net Operating Revenues” section of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The expansion and growth of Medicaid and insurance exchanges resulting from provisions of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws have increased the number of those patients coming to us. Medicaid reimbursement rates are almost always the lowest among those of our payors, and frequently Medicaid patients come to us with other complicating conditions that make treatment more difficult and costly. Similarly, the insurance coverages offered in the exchanges typically reimburse us at rates lower than we receive under other managed care contracts. While it is not anticipated that Medicaid and insurance exchanges will continue to grow at the rate they have in recent years, we cannot predict whether our payor mix will continue to shift to these lower reimbursement rate payors. 24Table of ContentsIn the future, we may also experience shifts in our payor mix or the acuity of our patients that could adversely affect our pricing, revenues or profitability. We face intense competition for patients from other healthcare providers.We operate in a highly competitive, fragmented inpatient rehabilitation and home health and hospice industries. Although we are the nation’s largest owner and operator of inpatient rehabilitation hospitals in terms of patients treated and discharged, revenues, and number of hospitals, in any particular market we may encounter competition from local or national entities with longer operating histories or other competitive advantages. For example, acute care hospitals, including those owned and operated by large public companies, may choose to expand or begin offering post-acute rehabilitation services. Given that approximately 92% of our hospitals’ referrals come from acute care hospitals, that increase in competition might materially and adversely affect our admission referrals in the related markets. There are also large acute care systems that may have more resources available to compete than we have.In the home health and hospice services industry, our primary competition comes from locally owned private home health companies or acute-care hospitals with adjunct home health services and typically varies from market to market. We compete with a variety of other companies in providing home health and hospice services, some of which, including several large public companies, may have greater financial and other resources and may be more established in their respective communities. Competing companies may offer newer or different services from those we offer or have better relationships with referring physicians and may thereby attract patients who are presently, or would be candidates for, receiving Encompass home health or hospice services. The other public companies have or may obtain significantly greater marketing and financial resources than we have or may obtain. Relatively few barriers to entry exist in most of our local markets. Accordingly, other companies, including hospitals and other healthcare organizations that are not currently providing competing services, may expand their services to include home health services, hospice care, community care services, or similar services. There can be no assurance this competition, or other competition which we may encounter in the future, will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, from time to time, there are efforts in states with certificate of need (“CON”) laws to weaken those laws, which could potentially increase competition in those states. Conversely, competition and statutory procedural requirements in some CON states may inhibit our ability to expand our operations. For a breakdown of the CON status of the states and territories in which we have operations, see 