Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which highlight additional considerations about HealthSouth. We are the nation’s largest provider of inpatient rehabilitative healthcare services in terms of revenues, number of hospitals, and patients treated and discharged. We operate 93 inpatient rehabilitation hospitals (including 3 joint venture hospitals which we account for using the equity method of accounting), 6 freestanding long-term acute care hospitals, or “LTCHs,” 49 outpatient rehabilitation satellites (operated by our hospitals), and 25 licensed, hospital-based home health agencies. Our consolidated Net operating revenues approximated $1.8 billion, $1.7 billion, and $1.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. For 2008, approximately 90% of our Net operating revenues came from inpatient services and approximately 10% came from outpatient services and other revenue sources (see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). During 2008, we treated and discharged over 107,000 patients in our rehabilitation hospitals. We had approximately 22,000 employees as of December 31, 2008. Our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals offer specialized rehabilitative care across a wide array of diagnoses and deliver comprehensive patient care services. The majority of patients we serve experience significant physical disabilities due to medical conditions, such as strokes, hip fractures, head injury, spinal cord injury, and neurological disorders, that are non-discretionary in nature and which require rehabilitative services in an inpatient setting. Our team of highly skilled physicians, nurses, and physical, occupational, and speech therapists utilize the latest in equipment and techniques to return patients to home and work. Patient care is provided by nursing and therapy staff as directed by a physician order. Internal case managers monitor each patient’s progress and provide documentation of patient status, achievement of goals, discharge planning, and functional outcomes. Our hospitals provide a comprehensive interdisciplinary clinical approach to treatment that leads to what we believe is a higher level of care and superior outcomes. Our outpatient rehabilitation facilities offer a range of rehabilitative healthcare services, including physical, occupational, and speech therapies treating a broad range of neurological and orthopedic conditions. LTCHs provide medical treatment to patients with chronic diseases and/or complex medical conditions. In order for a hospital to qualify as an LTCH, Medicare patients discharged from the hospital in any given cost reporting year must have an average length-of-stay in excess of 25 days. As of December 31, 2008, our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and LTCHs had 6,543 licensed beds. Our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals are located in 26 states and Puerto Rico, with a concentration of hospitals in Texas, Pennsylvania, Florida, Tennessee, and Alabama. In addition to HealthSouth hospitals and outpatient satellites, we manage eight inpatient rehabilitation units and one outpatient satellite through management contracts. As the nation’s largest provider of inpatient rehabilitative services and with our business focused primarily on those services, we believe we differentiate ourselves from our competitors in the following ways: • Quality. Our hospitals provide a broad base of clinical experience from which we have developed clinical best practices and protocols. We believe these clinical best practices and protocols help ensure the delivery of consistently high quality rehabilitative services across all of our hospitals. 1 • Technology. As a market leader in inpatient rehabilitation, we have devoted substantial effort and expertise to creating and leveraging rehabilitative technology. For example, we have developed an innovative therapeutic device called the “AutoAmbulator,” which can help advance the rehabilitative process for patients who experience difficulty walking. Technology instituted in our facilities allows us to effectively treat patients with a wide variety of significant physical disabilities. • Efficiency and Cost Effectiveness. Our size helps us provide inpatient rehabilitative services on a cost-effective basis. Specifically, because of our large number of inpatient hospitals, we can utilize proven staffing models and take advantage of certain supply chain efficiencies. We have also developed a program called “TeamWorks,” which is an operations-focused initiative using identified “best practices” to reduce inefficiencies and improve performance across a wide spectrum of operational areas. We entered 2008 seeking disciplined growth opportunities for our inpatient rehabilitation business within the context of our primary emphasis on debt reduction and further deleveraging. During the year, we commenced or completed the following development projects: • In June 2008, a certificate of need was approved that will enable us to establish up to a 40-bed comprehensive medical rehabilitation hospital in Marion County, Florida. The certificate of need has been contested by two competitors in the market and is progressing through the normal Florida certificate of need appeals process. The appeals process is expected to take at least one year, and there can be no assurance regarding the timing or outcome. • In July 2008, we purchased The Rehabilitation Hospital of South Jersey, a 34-bed inpatient rehabilitation hospital in Vineland, New Jersey. This transaction added a third New Jersey rehabilitation hospital to our northeast region. • Our certificate of need application for a new 40-bed rehabilitation hospital in Loudoun County, Virginia was approved on July 30, 2008. We expect to break ground on this site in the first half of 2009. • In August 2008, we acquired an inpatient rehabilitation unit at the Medical Center of Arlington in Texas. The operations of this unit were relocated to, and consolidated with, HealthSouth Rehabilitation Hospital of Arlington. • In August 2008, we acquired an inpatient rehabilitation hospital in Midland, Texas from Rehabcare Corporation. The operations of this hospital were relocated to, and consolidated with, HealthSouth Rehabilitation Hospital of Midland/Odessa. • In October 2008, we broke ground on a new, 40-bed freestanding inpatient rehabilitation hospital in Mesa, Arizona, and we expect operations to commence in the third quarter of 2009. As the year progressed and the general economy and credit market weakened further, we began to place even greater emphasis on debt reduction and deleveraging. We reduced our total debt outstanding by approximately $228 million in 2008. See the “Leverage and Liquidity” section below for additional discussion of our deleveraging efforts. We will continue to focus on debt reduction while enhancing the operations of our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and growing our inpatient rehabilitation business through bed expansions and other disciplined development opportunities that require minimal initial cash outlays, such as consolidations in existing markets (through joint venturing or acquisition) and de-novo projects with third-party financing. Once we reduce our leverage and have a balance sheet capable of withstanding additional risk, we will consider growth opportunities in other post-acute services complementary to our existing services such as long-term acute care, home health, and hospice. As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 22,000 individuals, of whom approximately 14,000 were full-time employees. We are subject to various state and federal laws that regulate wages, hours, benefits, and other terms and conditions relating to employment. Except for approximately 70 employees at one inpatient rehabilitation hospital (about 17% of that hospital’s workforce), none of our employees are represented by a labor 2 union. We are not aware of any current activities to organize our employees at other hospitals. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. Like most healthcare providers, our labor costs are rising faster than the general inflation rate. In some markets, the lack of availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare providers. To address this challenge, we will continue to focus on improving our retention, recruiting, compensation programs, and productivity. The shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel, including physical therapists, may require us to increase utilization of more expensive temporary personnel. Competition The inpatient rehabilitation industry is highly fragmented, and we have no single, similar direct competitor. Our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals compete primarily with rehabilitation units, many of which are acute care hospitals, and skilled nursing facilities in the markets we serve. Our LTCHs compete with other LTCHs or, in some cases, rehabilitation hospitals and skilled nursing facilities in the markets we serve. Several smaller privately-held companies are beginning to compete with us primarily in select geographic markets in Texas and the west. In addition, there are public companies that operate inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and LTCHs, but these are generally secondary services to their core businesses. Because of the attractiveness of the industry, other providers of post acute-care services may also become competitors in the future. For example, over the past few years, the number of nursing homes marketing themselves as rehabilitation providers has increased. In some states where we operate, the construction or expansion of facilities, the acquisition of existing facilities, or the introduction of new beds or services may be subject to review by and prior approval of state regulatory agencies under a “certificate of need” or “CON” program. See the “Regulation—Certificates of Need” section below. We potentially face opposition any time we initiate a certificate of need project or seek to acquire an existing facility or certificate of need. This opposition may arise either from competing national or regional companies or from local hospitals or other providers which file competing applications or oppose the proposed certificate of need project. The necessity for these approvals serves as a barrier to entry and has the potential to limit competition. We have generally been successful in obtaining certificates of need or similar approvals when required, although there can be no assurance we will achieve similar success in the future. We rely significantly on our ability to attract, develop, and retain nurses, therapists, and other clinical personnel for our hospitals. We compete for these professionals with other healthcare companies, hospitals, and potential clients and partners. In addition, physicians and others have opened inpatient rehabilitation hospitals in direct competition with us, particularly in states in which a CON is not required to build a hospital, which has made it more difficult and expensive to hire the necessary personnel for our hospitals in those markets. Sources of Revenues We receive payment for patient care services from the federal government (primarily under the Medicare program), state governments (under their respective Medicaid or similar programs), managed care plans, private insurers, and directly from patients. Revenues and receivables from government agencies are significant to our operations. In addition, we receive payment for non-patient care activities from various sources. The following table identifies the sources and relative mix of our revenues for the periods stated: For the Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Medicare 67.2% 67.8% 68.6% Medicaid 2.2% 2.0% 2.1% Workers’ compensation 2.1% 2.3% 2.6% Managed care and other discount plans 19.0% 18.5% 18.5% Other third-party payors 7.0% 6.3% 5.0% Patients 0.7% 0.6% 0.4% Other income 1.8% 2.5% 2.8% Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 3 Our hospitals generally offer discounts from established charges to certain group purchasers of healthcare services, including Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or “BCBS,” other private insurance companies, employers, health maintenance organizations, or “HMOs,” preferred provider organizations, or “PPOs,” and other managed care plans. Patients are generally not responsible for the difference between established gross charges and amounts reimbursed for such services under Medicare, Medicaid, BCBS plans, HMOs, or PPOs, but are responsible to the extent of any exclusions, deductibles, copayments, or coinsurance features of their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles, copayments, and coinsurance has been increasing each year. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more difficult than from governmental or third-party payors. Medicare Reimbursement Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and medical insurance benefits to persons aged 65 and over, some disabled persons, and persons with end-stage renal disease. Medicare, through statutes and regulations, establishes reimbursement methodologies and rates for various types of healthcare facilities and services, and, from time to time, these methodologies and rates can be modified by the United States Congress or the United States Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”). In some instances, these modifications can have a substantial impact on existing healthcare providers. In accordance with Medicare laws and statutes, CMS makes annual adjustments to Medicare payment rates in many prospective payment systems, including the inpatient rehabilitation facility prospective payment system, or “IRF-PPS,” under what is commonly known as a market basket increase. In the case of the IRF-PPS, unless Congress changes the law, CMS is required to adjust the payment rates based on a market basket index, known as the rehabilitation, psychiatric, and long-term care hospital, or “RPL,” market basket. The RPL is designed to reflect changes over time in the prices of an appropriate mix of goods and services included in covered services provided by rehabilitation hospitals and hospital-based inpatient rehabilitation units. The RPL uses data furnished by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for price proxy purposes, primarily in three categories: Producer Price Indexes, Consumer Price Indexes, and Employment Cost Indexes. The Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Extension Act of 2007 (the “2007 Medicare Act”) included an elimination of the IRF-PPS market basket adjustment for the period from April 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009 causing a reduction in the pricing of services eligible for Medicare reimbursement to a pricing level that existed in the third quarter of 2007, or a Medicare pricing “roll-back,” which has resulted in a decrease in actual reimbursement dollars per discharge despite increases in costs. Each year, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, or “MedPAC,” makes payment policy recommendations to Congress for a variety of Medicare payment systems. MedPAC is an independent Congressional agency that advises Congress on issues affecting Medicare. In January 2009, MedPAC voted to recommend to Congress that the IRF-PPS market basket for the twelve-month period beginning October 1, 2009 should not be increased. MedPAC recommended an increase to the market basket for LTCHs, with an adjustment for productivity. However, Congress is not obligated to adopt MedPAC recommendations, and, based on outcomes in previous years, we have no indication of whether Congress will adopt MedPAC’s recommendations for the twelve-month period beginning October 1, 2009. We cannot predict the adjustments, if any, to Medicare payment rates that Congress or CMS may make. Congress, MedPAC, and CMS will continue to address reimbursement rates for a variety of healthcare settings over the next several years. Any downward adjustment to rates, or continuance of the pricing roll-back, for the types of facilities we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. On January 16, 2009, CMS approved final rules that require healthcare providers to update and supplement diagnosis and procedure codes to the International Classification of Diseases 10th Edition, effective October 1, 2013, and make related changes to the formats used for certain electronic transactions, effective January 1, 2012. At this time, we cannot predict how these changes will affect us. A basic summary of current Medicare reimbursement in our primary service areas follows: Inpatient Rehabilitation Services. Our hospitals receive Medicare reimbursements under IRF-PPS. As discussed above, our hospitals receive fixed payment amounts per discharge under IRF-PPS based on certain rehabilitation impairment categories established by the United States Department of Health and Human Services. 4 With IRF-PPS, our hospitals retain the difference, if any, between the fixed payment from Medicare and their operating costs. Thus, our hospitals benefit from being high quality, low cost providers. Over the last several years, changes in regulation governing inpatient rehabilitation reimbursement have created a challenging operating environment for inpatient rehabilitative services. Specifically, on May 7, 2004, CMS issued a final rule, known as the “75% Rule,” stipulating that to qualify as an inpatient rehabilitation hospital under the Medicare program a facility must show that a certain percentage of its patients are treated for at least one of a specified and limited list of medical conditions. Under the 75% Rule, any inpatient rehabilitation hospital that failed to meet the requirements of the 75% Rule would be subject to prospective reclassification as an acute care hospital, with lower acute care payment rates for rehabilitative services. On December 29, 2007, the 2007 Medicare Act was signed, permanently setting the compliance threshold at 60% instead of 75% and allowing hospitals to continue using a patient’s secondary medical conditions, or “comorbidities,” to determine whether a patient qualifies for inpatient rehabilitative care under the rule. The long-term impact of the freeze at the 60% compliance threshold is positive because it allowed patient volumes to stabilize. In 2008, increased patient volumes resulting, we believe, from both our focus on standardizing sales and marketing efforts and the fact that more patients now have access to our high quality inpatient rehabilitative services offset the negative impact of the pricing roll-back. We expect the negative impact of the pricing roll-back to continue to be offset partially by our volume increases. There can be no assurance there will be an increase in Medicare reimbursement pricing upon the expiration of the roll-back period. Although reductions or changes in reimbursement from governmental or third-party payors and regulatory changes affecting our business represent the most significant challenges to our business, our operations are also affected by local coverage determinations made by local Medicare contractors that set out medical necessity requirements for claim coverage. Medicare providers like us can be negatively affected by the adoption of coverage policies, either at the national or local level, that determine whether an item or service is covered and under what clinical circumstances it is considered to be reasonable, necessary, and appropriate. In the absence of a national coverage determination, local Medicare contractors may specify more restrictive criteria than otherwise would apply nationally. We cannot predict how these local coverage determinations will affect us. In addition, on July 31, 2008, CMS released the fiscal year 2009 notice of final rulemaking for IRF-PPS. This rule will be effective for Medicare discharges between October 1, 2008 and September 30, 2009. Based on our analysis, we do not believe this final rule will negatively impact our Net operating revenues. On December 8, 2003, The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 authorized CMS to conduct a demonstration program known as the Medicare Recovery Audit Contractor, or “RAC,” program. This demonstration was first initiated in three states (California, Florida, and New York) and authorizes CMS to contract with private companies to conduct claims and medical record audits. These audits are in addition to those conducted by existing Medicare contractors, and the contracted RACs are paid a percentage of the overpayments recovered. On December 20, 2006, the Tax Relief & Health Care Act of 2006 directed CMS to expand the RAC program to the rest of the country by 2010. The new RACs were announced on October 6, 2008 and CMS is in the process of implementing the program. Among other changes in the permanent program, the new RACs will receive claims data directly from Medicare contractors on a monthly or quarterly basis and are authorized to review claims up to three years from the date a claim was paid, beginning with claims filed on or after October 1, 2007. We cannot predict when or how this new program will affect us. Outpatient Services. Our outpatient services are primarily reimbursed based upon the Physician Fee Schedule. On November 19, 2008, CMS issued a final rule that updated payments under the Physician Fee Schedule from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009. In accordance with language provided for in the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2007 that superseded a previously adopted annual reduction, the rule increased the standard conversion factor by 1.1% to $36.0666. We estimate that these changes will result in modestly higher reimbursement to us for outpatient services. In the future, if Congress does not again act to set aside implementation of previously adopted reductions to the Physician Fee Schedule, the outpatient payment formula will decrease by approximately 20%. We cannot predict what, if any, action Congress will take on the Physician Fee Schedule in the future, and we cannot predict how future Congressional action or inaction on the Physician Fee Schedule will affect us. 5 Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals. LTCHs provide medical treatment to patients with chronic diseases and/or complex medical conditions. In order for a hospital to qualify as an LTCH, Medicare patients discharged from the hospital in any given cost reporting year must have an average length-of-stay in excess of 25 days, among other requirements. LTCHs are currently reimbursed under a prospective payment system (“LTCH-PPS”) pursuant to which Medicare classifies patients into distinct Medicare Severity diagnosis-related groups (“MS-LTC-DRGs”) based upon specific clinical characteristics and expected resource needs. The 2007 Medicare Act provides regulatory relief for a three year period to LTCHs to ensure continued access to current long-term acute care hospital services, while also imposing a moratorium on the development of new long-term acute care hospitals during this same three-year period. Specifically, the legislation froze the market basket update for Medicare payment rates for LTCHs in the last quarter of rate year 2008. Additionally, the 2007 Medicare Act prevented CMS from implementing the new payment provision for short stay outlier cases and the extension of the 25% referral limitation to freestanding, satellite, and grandfathered LTCHs that was included in the Rate Year 2008 final rule. See this Item, “Regulation – Hospital Within Hospital Rules” for a further discussion of this rule. On May 9, 2008, CMS issued final regulations that updated payment rates under the LTCH-PPS for rate year 2009, which are effective for discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009. This rule implements various payment changes and will consolidate the timing of the rate year changes with the MS-LTC-DRG changes beginning on October 1, 2009. This final rule did not materially impact our Net operating revenues in 2008, nor is it expected to materially impact our 2009 Net operating revenues. On August 19, 2008, CMS issued final regulations that updated the LTCH-PPS. The final rule made changes to the LTCH relative payment weights and average lengths of stay. These changes were effective beginning October 1, 2008. This final rule is not expected to have a material impact on our Net operating revenues during federal fiscal year 2009. In January 2009, MedPAC recommended an increase to the market basket for LTCHs for the twelve-month period beginning October 1, 2009, with an adjustment for productivity. Medicaid Reimbursement Medicaid is a jointly administered and funded federal and state program that provides hospital and medical benefits to qualifying individuals who are unable to afford healthcare. As the Medicaid program is administered by the individual states under the oversight of CMS in accordance with certain regulatory and statutory guidelines, there are substantial differences in reimbursement methodologies and coverage policies from state to state. Many states have experienced shortfalls in their Medicaid budgets and are implementing significant cuts in Medicaid reimbursement rates. Additionally, certain states control Medicaid expenditures through restricting or eliminating coverage of certain services. Continuing downward pressure on Medicaid payment rates could cause a decline in that portion of our Net operating revenues. Cost Reports Because of our participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and certain BCBS plans, we are required to meet certain financial reporting requirements. Federal and, where applicable, state regulations require the submission of annual cost reports covering the revenue, costs, and expenses associated with the services provided by our inpatient hospitals to Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid recipients. Annual cost reports required under the Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to routine audits, which may result in adjustments to the amounts ultimately determined to be due HealthSouth under these reimbursement programs. These audits are used for determining if any under- or over-payments were made to these programs and to set payment levels for future years. The majority of our revenues are derived from prospective payment system payments, and even if we amend previously filed cost reports we do not expect the impact of those amendments to materially affect our results of operations. Managed Care and Other Discount Plans All of our hospitals offer discounts from established charges to certain large group purchasers of healthcare services, including managed care plans, BCBS, other private insurance companies, and third-party administrators. 6 Managed care contracts typically have terms of between one and three years, although we have a number of managed care contracts that automatically renew each year (with pre-defined rate increases) unless a party elects to terminate the contract. While some of our contracts provide for annual rate increases of three to five percent, we cannot provide any assurance we will continue to receive increases. Our managed care staff focuses on establishing and re-negotiating contracts that provide equitable reimbursement for the services provided. Regulation The healthcare industry in general is subject to significant federal, state, and local regulation that affects our business activities by controlling the reimbursement we receive for services provided, requiring licensure or certification of our hospitals, regulating our relationships with physicians and other referral sources, regulating the use of our properties, and controlling our growth. Our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals provide services to patients who require intensive inpatient rehabilitative care for significant physical disabilities due to various conditions, such as head injury, spinal cord injury, stroke, certain orthopedic problems, and neuromuscular disease. Our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals provide the medical, nursing, therapy, and ancillary services required to comply with local, state, and federal regulations, as well as accreditation standards of the Joint Commission (formerly known as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) and, for some facilities, the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities. Corporate Integrity Agreement On December 30, 2004, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement, or “CIA,” with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (the “HHS-OIG”), and we have subsequently entered into two addenda to the CIA. The CIA has an effective date of January 1, 2005 and a term of five years (same for the addenda) from that effective date. The CIA expires at the end of 2009, subject to the HHS-OIG accepting and approving our annual report for 2009 that we will submit in the first half of 2010. The CIA sets forth a comprehensive compliance program that we are required to follow. For additional information, see Note 20, Settlements, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The CIA requires us to submit annual reports to the HHS-OIG regarding our compliance with the CIA. The CIA also requires us to engage an Independent Review Organization (“IRO”) to assist us in assessing and evaluating: (1) our billing, coding, and cost reporting practices with respect to our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals; (2) our billing and coding practices for outpatient items and services furnished by outpatient departments of our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals; and (3) certain other obligations pursuant to the CIA and the related settlement agreement. We engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to serve as our IRO. We believe we have complied with the requirements of the CIA on a timely basis, and to date, there are no objections or unresolved comments from the HHS-OIG relating to our annual reports. Failure to meet our obligations under our CIA could result in stipulated financial penalties or extension of the term of the CIA. Failure to comply with material terms, however, could lead to exclusion from further participation in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently account for a substantial portion of our revenues. Licensure and Certification Healthcare facility construction and operation are subject to numerous federal, state, and local regulations relating to the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, acquisition and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances, maintenance of adequate records, fire prevention, and compliance with building codes and environmental protection laws. Our hospitals are subject to periodic inspection by governmental and non-governmental certification authorities to ensure continued compliance with the various standards necessary for facility licensure. All of our inpatient hospitals are currently required to be licensed. In addition, hospitals must be “certified” by CMS to participate in the Medicare program and generally must be certified by Medicaid state agencies to participate in Medicaid programs. All of our inpatient hospitals participate in (or are awaiting the assignment of a provider number to participate in) the Medicare program. Our Medicare-certified hospitals undergo periodic on-site surveys in order to maintain their certification. 7 Failure to comply with applicable certification requirements may make our hospitals ineligible for Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement. In addition, Medicare or Medicaid may seek retroactive reimbursement from noncompliant facilities or otherwise impose sanctions on noncompliant facilities. Non-governmental payors often have the right to terminate provider contracts if a facility loses its Medicare or Medicaid certification. We have developed operational systems to oversee compliance with the various standards and requirements of the Medicare program and have established ongoing quality assurance activities; however, given the complex nature of governmental healthcare regulations, there can be no assurance that Medicare, Medicaid, or other regulatory authorities will not allege instances of noncompliance. Certificates of Need In some states where we operate, the construction or expansion of facilities, the acquisition of existing facilities, or the introduction of new beds or services may be subject to review by and prior approval of state regulatory agencies under “certificate of need” laws. Certificate of need laws often require the reviewing agency to determine the public need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities and services. Certificate of need laws generally require approvals for capital expenditures involving inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and LTCHs, if such capital expenditures exceed certain thresholds. In addition, certificate of need laws in some states require us to abide by certain charity commitments as a condition for approving a certificate of need. Any time a certificate of need is required, we must obtain it before acquiring, opening, reclassifying, or expanding a healthcare facility or starting a new healthcare program. False Claims Act The federal False Claims Act prohibits the knowing presentation of a false claim to the United States government, and provides for penalties equal to three times the actual amount of any overpayments plus up to $11,000 per claim. In addition, the False Claims Act allows private persons, known as “relators,” to file complaints under seal and provides a period of time for the government to investigate such complaints and determine whether to intervene in them and take over the handling of all or part of such complaints. Because we perform thousands of similar procedures a year for which we are reimbursed by Medicare and other federal payors and there is a relatively long statute of limitations, a billing error or cost reporting error could result in significant civil or criminal penalties under the False Claims Act. Many states have also adopted similar laws relating to state government payments for healthcare services. Relationships with Physicians and Other Providers The Anti-Kickback Law. Various state and federal laws regulate relationships between providers of healthcare services, including employment or service contracts and investment relationships. Among the most important of these restrictions is a federal criminal law, or the “Anti-Kickback Law,” prohibiting the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of remuneration by individuals or entities to induce referrals of patients for services reimbursed under the Medicare or Medicaid programs. In addition to federal criminal sanctions, including penalties of up to $50,000 for each violation plus tripled damages for improper claims, violators of the Anti-Kickback Law may be subject to exclusion from the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. In 1991, the HHS-OIG issued regulations describing compensation arrangements that are not viewed as illegal remuneration under the Anti-Kickback Law (the “1991 Safe Harbor Rules”). The 1991 Safe Harbor Rules create certain standards, or “Safe Harbors,” for identified types of compensation arrangements that, if fully complied with, assure participants in the particular arrangement that the HHS-OIG will not treat that participation as a criminal offense under the Anti-Kickback Law or as the basis for an exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs or the imposition of civil sanctions. Failure to fall within a Safe Harbor does not constitute a violation of the Anti-Kickback Law, but the HHS-OIG has indicated failure to fall within a Safe Harbor may subject an arrangement to increased scrutiny. A violation, or even the assertion of, a violation of the Anti-Kickback Law by us or one or more of our partnerships could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We currently operate some of our rehabilitation hospitals as general partnerships, limited partnerships, or limited liability companies with third-party investors, including other institutional healthcare providers but also including, in one case, physician investors. Some of these partners may be deemed to be in a position to make or influence referrals to our hospitals. Those entities that are providers of services under the Medicare program, and their owners, are subject to the Anti-Kickback Law. A number of the relationships we have established with 8 physicians and other healthcare providers do not fit within any of the Safe Harbors. While we do not believe our rehabilitation hospital partnerships engage in activities that violate the Anti-Kickback Law, there can be no assurance such violations may not be asserted in the future, nor can there be any assurance that our defense against any such assertion would be successful. We have entered into agreements to manage many of our hospitals that are owned by partnerships. Most of these agreements incorporate a percentage-based management fee. Although there is a safe harbor for personal services and management contracts, this safe harbor requires, among other things, the aggregate compensation paid to the manager over the term of the agreement be set in advance. Because our management fee may be based on a percentage of revenues, the fee arrangement may not meet this requirement. However, we believe our management arrangements satisfy the other requirements of the safe harbor for personal services and management contracts and they comply with the Anti-Kickback Law. We have implemented training and compliance programs designed to safeguard against overbilling and otherwise to achieve compliance with the Anti-Kickback Law and other laws, but there can be no assurance the HHS-OIG would find our compliance programs to be adequate. Stark Exceptions. The federal law commonly known as the Stark law and CMS regulations promulgated under the Stark law prohibit physicians from making referrals for “designated health services” including inpatient and outpatient hospital services, physical therapy, occupational therapy, radiology services, or radiation therapy, to an entity in which the physician has an investment interest or other financial relationship, subject to certain exceptions. The Stark law also prohibits those entities from filing claims or billing for those referred services. These prohibitions apply to our financial relationships with physicians and any partnerships with physician partners. Violators of the Stark statute and regulations may be subject to recoupments, civil monetary fines, penalties and exclusion from any federal, state, or other governmental healthcare programs. We have put in place training and compliance programs and policies intended to prevent violations of the Stark statute and regulations. While we do not believe our financial relationships with physicians violate the Stark statute or the associated regulations, no assurances can be given that a federal or state agency charged with enforcement of the Stark statute and regulations or similar state laws might not assert a contrary position or that new federal or state laws governing physician relationships, or new interpretations of existing laws governing such relationships, might not adversely affect relationships we have established with physicians or result in the imposition of penalties on us or on particular HealthSouth hospitals. Even the assertion of a violation could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, a number of states have passed or are considering statutes which prohibit or limit physician referrals of patients to facilities in which they have an investment interest. Any actual or perceived violation of these state statutes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. HIPAA The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, commonly known as “HIPAA,” broadened the scope of certain fraud and abuse laws by adding several criminal provisions for healthcare fraud offenses that apply to all health benefit programs. HIPAA also added a prohibition against incentives intended to influence decisions by Medicare beneficiaries as to the provider from which they will receive services. In addition, HIPAA created new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including the Medicare Integrity Program, and an incentive program under which individuals can receive up to $1,000 for providing information on Medicare fraud and abuse that leads to the recovery of at least $100 of Medicare funds. HIPAA and related HHS regulations contain certain administrative simplification provisions that require the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for certain healthcare claims and payment transactions submitted or received electronically. HIPAA regulations also regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health-related information, whether communicated electronically, on paper, or orally. The regulations provide patients with significant rights related to understanding and controlling how their health information is used or disclosed and require healthcare providers to implement administrative, physical, and technical practices to protect the security of individually identifiable health information that is maintained or transmitted electronically. Penalties for violations of HIPAA include civil and criminal monetary penalties. In addition, there are numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy concerns. Facilities will continue to remain subject to any federal or state privacy-related laws that are more restrictive than 9 the privacy regulations issued under HIPAA. These laws vary and could impose additional penalties. Any actual or perceived violation of these privacy-related laws, including HIPAA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We have put in place training and compliance programs and policies intended to prevent violations of HIPAA and related regulations. Hospital Within Hospital Rules CMS has enacted multiple regulations governing “hospital within hospital” arrangements for inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and LTCHs. These regulations provide, among other things, that if a long-term acute care “hospital within hospital” has Medicare admissions from its host hospital that exceed 25% (or an adjusted percentage for certain rural or Metropolitan Statistical Area dominant hospitals) of its Medicare discharges for its cost-reporting period, the LTCH will receive an adjusted payment for its Medicare patients of the lesser of (1) the otherwise full payment under the LTCH-PPS or (2) a comparable payment that Medicare would pay under the acute care inpatient prospective payment system. In determining whether an LTCH meets the 25% criterion, patients transferred from the host hospital that have already qualified for outlier payments at the acute host facility would not count as part of the host hospital’s allowable percentage. Cases admitted from the host hospital before the LTCH crosses the 25% threshold will be paid under the LTCH-PPS. Additionally, other excluded hospitals or units of a host hospital, such as inpatient rehabilitation facilities and/or units, must meet certain “hospital within hospital” requirements in order to maintain their excluded status and not be subject to the acute care inpatient prospective payment system. On July 1, 2007, CMS regulations extended the 25% referral limitation applicable to “hospital within hospital” locations to freestanding, satellite, and grandfathered LTCHs. The 2007 Medicare Act modified and delayed implementation of this extension of the rule and certain other portions of the “hospital within hospital” rules applicable to LTCHs for cost report periods beginning on or after December 29, 2007 for a three-year period. These regulations did not materially impact our Net operating revenues in 2008, nor are they expected to materially impact our 2009 Net operating revenues. We cannot predict when or how these new program policies will affect us. 2008 Significant Events The unprecedented turmoil and volatility of the equity and credit markets and the corresponding weakening of the economy during 2008, in particular the second half of 2008, led us to reassess our strategic thinking to ensure it was appropriate given the new business climate. In the third quarter of 2008, we determined that, while we are positioned to do well in a volatile economic environment and have adequate sources of liquidity, we will place greater emphasis on reducing our debt. As we reassessed the appropriateness of our strategic outlook during the current economic uncertainty, we took a critical look at our development strategy, especially as it related to de-novo projects. In recognition of changing economic conditions, we will continue to be disciplined in our approach to development opportunities, carefully evaluating these opportunities against our deleveraging priority. For the foreseeable future, reducing our long-term debt will be our primary objective. We will continue to pursue bed expansions in existing hospitals as they provide immediate earnings growth, and we will pursue acquisitions and market consolidations where we can do so with minimal initial cash outlays. For any de-novo project we decide to pursue, we will work with third parties willing to assume the majority of the financing risks associated with these projects. During the first quarter of 2008, we sold our corporate campus for a purchase price of $43.5 million in cash and a deferred purchase price component related to a part of the campus (see 