Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Note 19, Contingencies and Other Commitments, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.Relationships with Physicians and Other ProvidersAnti-Kickback Law. Various state and federal laws regulate relationships between providers of healthcare services, including management or service contracts and investment relationships. Among the most important of these restrictions is a federal law prohibiting the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of remuneration by individuals or entities to induce referrals of patients for services reimbursed under the Medicare or Medicaid programs (the “Anti-Kickback Law”). The 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws amended the federal Anti-Kickback Law to provide that proving violations of this law does not require proving actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation. Another amendment made it clear that Anti-Kickback Law violations can be the basis for claims under the False Claims Act. These changes and those described above related to the False Claims Act, when combined with other recent federal initiatives, are likely to increase investigation and enforcement efforts in the healthcare industry generally. In addition to standard federal criminal and civil sanctions, including imprisonment and penalties of up to $50,000 for each violation plus tripled damages for improper claims, violators of the Anti-Kickback Law may be subject to exclusion from the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. In 1991, the HHS-OIG issued regulations describing compensation arrangements that are not viewed as illegal remuneration under the Anti-Kickback Law. Those regulations provide for certain safe harbors for identified types of compensation arrangements that, if fully complied with, assure participants in the particular arrangement that the HHS-OIG will not treat that participation as a criminal offense under the Anti-Kickback Law or as the basis for an exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs or the imposition of civil sanctions. Failure to fall within a safe harbor does not constitute a violation of the Anti-Kickback Law, but the HHS-OIG has indicated failure to fall within a safe harbor may subject an arrangement to increased scrutiny. A violation of the Anti-Kickback Law by us or one or more of our partnerships could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Even the assertion of a violation could have an adverse effect upon our stock price or reputation.Some of our rehabilitation hospitals are owned through joint ventures with institutional healthcare providers that may be in a position to make or influence referrals to our hospitals. In addition, we have a number of relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers, including management or service contracts. Some of these investment relationships and contractual relationships may not meet all of the regulatory requirements to fall within the protection offered by a relevant safe harbor. Despite our compliance and monitoring efforts, there can be no assurance violations of the Anti-Kickback Law will not be asserted in the future, nor can there be any assurance that our defense against any such assertion would be successful.For example, we have entered into agreements to manage our hospitals that are owned by partnerships. Most of these agreements incorporate a percentage-based management fee. Although there is a safe harbor for personal services and management contracts, this safe harbor requires, among other things, the aggregate compensation paid to the manager over the term of the agreement be set in advance. Because our management fee may be based on a percentage of revenues, the fee arrangement may not meet this requirement. However, we believe our management arrangements satisfy the other requirements of the safe harbor for personal services and management contracts and comply with the Anti-Kickback Law.Physician Self-Referral Law. The federal law commonly known as the “Stark law” and CMS regulations promulgated under the Stark law prohibit physicians from making referrals for “designated health services” including inpatient and outpatient hospital services, physical therapy, occupational therapy, or radiology services, to an entity in which the physician (or an immediate family member) has an investment interest or other financial relationship, subject to certain exceptions. The Stark law also prohibits those entities from filing claims or billing for those referred services. Violators of the Stark law and regulations may be subject to recoupments, civil monetary sanctions (up to $15,000 for each violation and assessments up to three times the amount claimed for each prohibited service) and exclusion from any federal, state, or other governmental healthcare programs. The statute also provides a penalty of up to $100,000 for a circumvention scheme. There are statutory exceptions to the Stark law for many of the customary financial arrangements between physicians and providers, including personal services contracts and leases. However, in order to be afforded protection by a Stark law exception, the financial arrangement must comply with every requirement of the applicable exception.Under the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, the exception to the Stark law that currently permits physicians to refer patients to hospitals in which they have an investment or ownership interest has been dramatically limited by providing that only physician-owned hospitals with a provider agreement in place on December 31, 2010 are exempt from the general ban on self-referral. Existing physician-owned hospitals are prohibited from increasing the physician ownership percentage in the hospital after March 23, 2010. Additionally, physician-owned hospitals are prohibited from increasing the number of licensed 11Table of Contentsbeds after March 23, 2010, except when certain market and regulatory approval conditions are met. Currently, we have no hospitals that would be considered physician-owned under this law.CMS has issued several phases of final regulations implementing the Stark law. While these regulations help clarify the requirements of the exceptions to the Stark law, it is unclear how the government will interpret many of these exceptions for enforcement purposes. Recent changes to the regulations implementing the Stark law further restrict the types of arrangements that facilities and physicians may enter, including additional restrictions on certain leases, percentage compensation arrangements, and agreements under which a hospital purchases services “under arrangements.” We may be required to restructure or unwind some of our arrangements because of these changes. Because many of these laws and their implementing regulations are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. We attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the Stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex. Accordingly, we cannot assure that every relationship complies fully with the Stark law.Additionally, no assurances can be given that any agency charged with enforcement of the Stark law and regulations might not assert a violation under the Stark law, nor can there be any assurance that our defense against any such assertion would be successful or that new federal or state laws governing physician relationships, or new interpretations of existing laws governing such relationships, might not adversely affect relationships we have established with physicians or result in the imposition of penalties on us or on particular HealthSouth hospitals. Even the assertion of a violation could have an adverse effect upon our stock price or reputation.HIPAAThe Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, commonly known as “HIPAA,” broadened the scope of certain fraud and abuse laws by adding several criminal provisions for healthcare fraud offenses that apply to all health benefit programs. HIPAA also added a prohibition against incentives intended to influence decisions by Medicare beneficiaries as to the provider from which they will receive services. In addition, HIPAA created new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including the Medicare Integrity Program, and an incentive program under which individuals can receive up to $1,000 for providing information on Medicare fraud and abuse that leads to the recovery of at least $100 of Medicare funds. Penalties for violations of HIPAA include civil and criminal monetary penalties.HIPAA and related HHS regulations contain certain administrative simplification provisions that require the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for certain healthcare claims and payment transactions submitted or received electronically. HIPAA regulations also regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health-related information, whether communicated electronically, on paper, or orally. The regulations provide patients with significant rights related to understanding and controlling how their health information is used or disclosed and require healthcare providers to implement administrative, physical, and technical practices to protect the security of individually identifiable health information that is maintained or transmitted electronically.With the enactment of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA have been modified and expanded. The HITECH Act applies certain of the HIPAA privacy and security requirements directly to business associates of covered entities. The modifications to existing HIPAA requirements include: expanded accounting requirements for electronic health records, tighter restrictions on marketing and fundraising, and heightened penalties and enforcement associated with noncompliance. Significantly, the HITECH Act also establishes new mandatory federal requirements for notification of breaches of security involving protected health information. HHS is responsible for enforcing the requirement that covered entities notify any individual whose protected health information has been improperly acquired, accessed, used, or disclosed. In certain cases, notice of a breach is required to be made to HHS and media outlets. The heightened penalties for noncompliance range from $100 to $50,000 for single incidents to $25,000 to $1,500,000 for multiple identical violations. In the event of violations due to willful neglect that are not corrected within 30 days, penalties are not subject to a statutory maximum. Willful neglect includes the failure to conduct a security risk assessment or adequately implement HIPAA compliance policies.On January 17, 2013, HHS Office for Civil Rights issued a final rule, with a compliance date of September 23, 2013, to implement the HITECH Act and make other modifications to the HIPAA and HITECH regulations. This rule expanded the potential liability for a breach involving protected health information to cover some instances where a subcontractor is responsible for the breaches and that individual or entity was acting within the scope of delegated authority under the related contract or engagement. The final rule generally defines “breach” to mean the acquisition, access, use or disclosure of protected health information in a manner not permitted by the HIPAA privacy standards, which compromises the security or privacy of protected health information. Under the final rule, improper acquisition, access, use, or disclosure is presumed to be a 12Table of Contentsreportable breach, unless the potentially breaching party can demonstrate a low probability that protected health information has been compromised. On the whole, it appears the changes to the breach reporting rules could increase breach reporting in the healthcare industry. In addition, there are numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy concerns. Facilities will continue to remain subject to any federal or state privacy-related laws that are more restrictive than the privacy regulations issued under HIPAA. These laws vary and could impose additional penalties. Any actual or perceived violation of privacy-related laws and regulations, including HIPAA and the HITECH Act, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Available InformationOur website address is www.healthsouth.com. We make available through our website the following documents, free of charge: our annual reports (Form 10-K), our quarterly reports (Form 10-Q), our current reports (Form 8-K), and any amendments to those reports promptly after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to the information that is available on our website, you may read and copy any materials we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which includes reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC.Item 1A.Risk FactorsOur business, operations, and financial position are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating HealthSouth or any investment decision involving HealthSouth. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our industry, or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning other risk factors as well as those described below is contained in other sections of this annual report.Reductions or changes in reimbursement from government or third-party payors and other legislative and regulatory changes affecting our industry could adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our Net operating revenues from the Medicare program. See Item 1, Business, “Sources of Revenues,” for a table identifying the sources and relative payor mix of our revenues. Historically, Congress and some state legislatures have periodically proposed significant changes in regulations governing the healthcare system. Many of these changes have resulted in limitations on the increases in and, in some cases, significant roll-backs or reductions in the levels of payments to healthcare providers for services under many government reimbursement programs. There can be no assurance that future governmental initiatives will not result in pricing roll-backs or freezes or reimbursement reductions.In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amended the PPACA (together, the “2010 Healthcare Reform Laws”). Many provisions within the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws have impacted or could in the future impact our business, including: (1) reducing annual market basket updates to providers, which include annual productivity adjustment reductions; (2) the possible combining, or “bundling,” of reimbursement for a Medicare beneficiary’s episode of care at some point in the future; (3) implementing a voluntary program for accountable care organizations (“ACOs”); and (4) creating an Independent Payment Advisory Board.Most notably for us, these laws include a reduction in annual market basket updates to hospitals. In accordance with Medicare laws and statutes, the United States Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) makes annual adjustments to Medicare reimbursement rates by what is commonly known as a “market basket update.” The reductions in our annual market basket updates continue through 2019 for each CMS fiscal year, which for us begins October 1, as follows:201320142015-162017-190.1%0.3%0.2%0.75%In addition, the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws require the market basket update to be reduced by a productivity adjustment on an annual basis. The productivity adjustments equal the trailing 10-year average of changes in annual economy-wide private nonfarm business multi-factor productivity. The productivity adjustment effective from October 1, 2012 to 13Table of ContentsSeptember 30, 2013 is a decrease to the market basket update of 0.7%. We estimate the adjustment effective October 1, 2013 will be a decrease to the market basket update of approximately 1.0%, but we cannot predict it with certainty.The 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws also directed the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) to examine the feasibility of bundling, including conducting a voluntary, multi-year bundling pilot program to test and evaluate alternative payment methodologies. On January 31, 2013, CMS announced the selection of participants in the initial phase of limited-scope, voluntary bundling pilot projects. There will be four project types: acute care only, acute/post-acute, post-acute only, and acute and physician services. In the initial phase, pilot participants along with their provider partners will exchange data with CMS on care patterns and engage in shared learning in how to improve care. The next phase, scheduled to begin in July 2013, will require participants in that phase, pending contract finalization and completion of the standard CMS program integrity reviews, to take on financial risk for episodes of care. Per the announcement, CMS selected as participants a small number of acute care hospitals with which we have relationships. Therefore, we expect to be part of the related bundling projects as a post-acute rehabilitation provider. We will continue to evaluate on a case by case basis the appropriateness of bundling opportunities for our hospitals and patients.Similarly, the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws required CMS to start a voluntary program by January 1, 2012 for ACOs, in which hospitals, physicians and other care providers develop entities to pursue the delivery of coordinated healthcare on a more efficient, patient-centered basis. Conceptually, ACOs will receive a portion of any savings generated above a certain threshold from care coordination as long as benchmarks for the quality of care are maintained. In October 2011, CMS issued the final rules establishing the voluntary ACO program. These rules are extremely complex and remain subject to further refinement by CMS. As with bundling, we are currently evaluating on a case by case basis appropriate participation opportunities in the ACO pilots for our hospitals and patients. We have expressed interest in participating in several ACOs but, to date, have not entered into any participation agreements.Another provision of these laws establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board that is charged with presenting proposals, beginning in 2014, to Congress to reduce Medicare expenditures upon the occurrence of Medicare expenditures exceeding a certain level. However, due to the market basket reductions that are also part of these laws (as discussed above), certain healthcare providers, including HealthSouth, will not be subject to payment reduction proposals developed by this board and presented to Congress through 2019. While we may not be subject to payment reduction proposals by this board for a period of time, based on the scope of this board’s directive to reduce Medicare expenditures and the significance of Medicare as a payor to us, other decisions made by this board may adversely impact our results of operations.Given the complexity and the number of changes in these laws, we cannot predict their ultimate impact. However, we believe the above provisions are the issues with the greatest potential impact on us. The 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws include other provisions that could adversely affect us as well. They include the expansion of the federal Anti-Kickback Law and the False Claims Act that, when combined with other recent federal initiatives, are likely to increase investigation and enforcement efforts in the healthcare industry generally. Changes include increased resources for enforcement, lowered burden of proof for the government in healthcare fraud matters, expanded definition of claims under the False Claims Act, enhanced penalties, and increased rewards for relators in successful prosecutions. CMS may also suspend payment for claims prospectively if, in its opinion, credible allegations of fraud exist. The initial suspension period may be up to 180 days. However, the payment suspension period can be extended almost indefinitely if the matter is under investigation by the HHS Office of Inspector General or the United States Department of Justice (the “DOJ”). Any such suspension would adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Further, under the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, CMS established new quality data reporting, effective October 1, 2012, for all inpatient rehabilitation facilities (“IRFs”). Beginning October 1, 2014, and each subsequent fiscal year thereafter, failure to submit the required quality data will result in a two percentage point reduction to the applicable facility’s annual market basket increase factor for payments made for discharges occurring during that fiscal year. Our hospitals began submitting quality data to CMS in October 2012. For additional discussion of general healthcare regulation, see Item 1, Business, “Regulatory and Reimbursement Challenges” and “Regulation.”Some states in which we operate have also undertaken, or are considering, healthcare reform initiatives that address similar issues. While many of the stated goals of the federal and state reform initiatives are consistent with our own goal to provide care that is high-quality and cost-effective, legislation and regulatory proposals may lower reimbursements, increase the cost of compliance, and otherwise adversely affect our business. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be enacted, implemented or amended, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us.On August 2, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which provided for an automatic 2% reduction of Medicare program payments for all healthcare providers in January 2013. On January 2, 2013, the 14Table of ContentsPresident signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which delayed this reduction until March 2013, at which time the President must issue an executive order implementing it. We currently estimate this automatic reduction, known as “sequestration,” will begin impacting Net operating revenues in mid-March 2013 and result in a net decrease in our Net operating revenues of approximately $28 million in 2013.Additionally, concerns held by federal policymakers about the federal deficit and national debt levels, including the statutory cap on the ability to issue debt referred to as the “debt ceiling,” could result in enactment of further federal spending reductions, further entitlement reform legislation affecting the Medicare program, or both. We cannot predict what alternative or additional deficit reduction initiatives or Medicare payment reductions, if any, will ultimately be enacted into law, or the timing or effect any such initiatives or reductions will have on us. If enacted, such initiatives or reductions would likely be challenging for all providers, would likely have the effect of limiting Medicare beneficiaries’ access to healthcare services, and could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If we are not able to maintain increased case volumes or reduce operating costs to offset any future pricing roll-back, reduction, freeze, or increased costs associated with new regulatory compliance obligations, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our results could be further adversely affected by other changes in laws or regulations governing the Medicare program, as well as possible changes to or expansion of the audit processes conducted by Medicare contractors or Medicare recovery audit contractors. For additional discussion of healthcare reform and other factors affecting reimbursement for our services, see Item 1, Business, “Regulatory and Reimbursement Challenges” and “Sources of Revenues—Medicare Reimbursement.”In addition, there are increasing pressures, including as a result of the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, from many third-party payors to control healthcare costs and to reduce or limit increases in reimbursement rates for medical services. Our relationships with managed care and nongovernmental third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, are generally governed by negotiated agreements. These agreements set forth the amounts we are entitled to receive for our services. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if we are unable to negotiate and maintain favorable agreements with third-party payors.Our third-party payors may also, from time to time, request audits of the amounts paid, or to be paid, to us. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if the auditing payor alleges that substantial overpayments were made to us due to coding errors or lack of documentation to support medical necessity determinations.Competition for staffing, shortages of qualified personnel, union activity or other factors may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability.Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical personnel, such as physical therapists, occupational therapists, speech pathologists, nurses, and other healthcare professionals. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals. In some markets, the lack of availability of medical personnel is a significant operating issue facing all healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified personnel or to contract for more expensive temporary personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate.If our labor costs increase, we may not experience reimbursement rate increases to offset these additional costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is limited. In particular, if labor costs rise at an annual rate greater than our net annual market basket update from Medicare, our results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. Conversely, decreases in reimbursement revenues, such as with sequestration, may limit our ability to increase compensation or benefits to the extent necessary to retain key employees, in turn increasing our turnover and associated costs. Union activity is another factor that may contribute to increased labor costs. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified medical personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.15Table of ContentsCompliance with the extensive laws and government regulations applicable to healthcare providers requires substantial time, effort and expense, and if we fail to comply with them, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.As a healthcare provider, we are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things:•licensure, certification, and accreditation;•policies, either at the national or local level, delineating what conditions must be met to qualify for reimbursement under Medicare (also referred to as coverage requirements);•coding and billing for services;•requirements of the 60% compliance threshold under the 2007 Medicare Act;•relationships with physicians and other referral sources, including physician self-referral and anti-kickback laws;•quality of medical care;•use and maintenance of medical supplies and equipment;•maintenance and security of patient information and medical records;•acquisition and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances; and•disposal of medical and hazardous waste.In the future, changes in these laws or regulations or the manner in which they are enforced could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our hospitals, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs, operating procedures, and contractual arrangements. For additional discussion of certain important healthcare laws and regulations, see Item 1, Business, “Sources of Revenue—Medicare Reimbursement” and “Regulation.”Although we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial time, effort, and expense in implementing and maintaining internal controls and procedures designed to ensure regulatory compliance, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including (1) criminal penalties, (2) civil penalties, including monetary penalties and the loss of our licenses to operate one or more of our hospitals, and (3) exclusion or suspension of one or more of our hospitals from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs, which, if lengthy in duration and material to us, could potentially trigger a default under our credit agreement. Because Medicare comprises a significant portion of our Net operating revenues, it is important for us to remain compliant with the laws and regulations governing the Medicare program and related matters including anti-kickback and anti-fraud requirements. As discussed above in connection with the 2010 Healthcare Reform Laws, the federal government has in the last couple of years made fighting healthcare fraud one of the top law enforcement priorities. In the past few years, the DOJ and HHS as well as federal lawmakers have significantly increased efforts to combat healthcare fraud. In recent years, the DOJ has pursued and recovered a record amount of taxpayer dollars lost to healthcare fraud. Substantial damages and other remedies assessed against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Even the assertion of a violation, depending on its nature, could have a material adverse effect upon our stock price or reputation.Our hospitals face national, regional, and local competition for patients from other healthcare providers.We operate in a highly competitive industry. Although we are the nation’s largest owner and operator of inpatient rehabilitation hospitals in terms of patients treated and discharged, revenues, and number of hospitals, in any particular market we may encounter competition from local or national entities with longer operating histories or other competitive advantages. There can be no assurance this competition, or other competition which we may encounter in the future, will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, from time to time, there are efforts in states with certificate of need laws to weaken those laws, which could potentially increase competition in those states. Conversely, competition and statutory procedural requirements in some certificate of need states may inhibit our ability to expand our operations.16Table of ContentsWe may have difficulty completing acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or de novo developments consistent with our growth strategy, or we may make investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures that may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities.We selectively pursue strategic acquisitions of, investments in, and joint ventures with rehabilitative healthcare providers and, in the longer term, may do so with other complementary post-acute healthcare operations. We may face limitations on our ability to identify sufficient acquisition targets to meet goals or projections. Acquisitions identified and completed may involve material cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses, amortization of certain intangible assets of acquired companies, issuances of equity securities, and expenses that could affect our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions, investments, and joint ventures involve numerous risks, including:•limitations, including state certificates of need as well as CMS and other regulatory approval requirements, on our ability to complete such acquisitions, particularly those involving not-for-profit providers, on terms, timetables, and valuations reasonable to us;•limitations in obtaining financing for acquisitions at a cost reasonable to us;•difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel, and information systems, and in realizing projected revenues, efficiencies and cost savings, or returns on invested capital;•entry into markets, businesses or services in which we may have little or no experience; •diversion of business resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations; and•exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities of acquired operations, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and anti-trust considerations in specific markets.In addition to those development activities, we intend to build new, or de novo, inpatient rehabilitation hospitals. The construction of new hospitals involves numerous risks, including the receipt of all zoning and other regulatory approvals, such as a certificate of need where necessary, construction delays and cost over-runs. Once built, new hospitals must undergo the state and Medicare certification process. We may be unable to operate newly constructed hospitals as profitably as expected, and those hospitals may involve significant additional cash expenditures and operating expenses that could, in the aggregate, have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We are a defendant in various lawsuits, and may be subject to liability under qui tam cases, the outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on us.We operate in a highly regulated and litigious industry. As a result, various lawsuits, claims, and legal and regulatory proceedings have been and can be expected to be instituted or asserted against us. We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits, and the material lawsuits are discussed in Note 19, Contingencies and Other Commitments, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Substantial damages and other remedies assessed against us or settlements agreed to could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, the costs of defending litigation and investigations, even if frivolous or nonmeritorious, could be significant.We insure a substantial portion of our professional liability, general liability, and workers’ compensation liability risks through our captive insurance subsidiary, as discussed further in Note 10, Self-Insured Risks, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Changes in the number of these liability claims and the cost to resolve them impact the reserves for these risks. A variance between our estimated and actual number of claims or average cost per claim could have a material impact, either favorable or unfavorable, on the adequacy of the reserves for these liability risks, which could have an effect on our financial position and results of operations.The proper function, availability, and security of our information systems is critical to our business. We are dependent on the proper function, availability and security of our information systems, including our new electronic clinical information system which plays a substantial role in the operations of the hospitals in which it is installed. We undertake substantial measures to protect the safety and security of our information systems and the data maintained within those systems, and we regularly test the adequacy of our security and disaster recovery measures. We have installed privacy protection systems and devices on our network and electronic devices in an attempt to prevent unauthorized access to that data, which includes patient information subject to the protections of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act. For additional discussion of these laws, see Item 1, Business, “Regulation.” As part of our efforts, we may be required to expend significant capital to protect against the 17Table of Contentsthreat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches, including unauthorized access to patient data and personally identifiable information stored in our information systems and the introduction of computer malware to our systems. However, there can be no assurance our safety and security measures or our disaster recovery plan will detect and prevent security breaches in a timely manner or otherwise prevent damage or interruption of our systems and operations. We may be vulnerable to losses associated with the improper functioning, security breach or unavailability of our information systems. We may be held liable to our patients and regulators, which could result in fines, litigation, or negative publicity. Failure to maintain proper function, security, and availability of our information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our electronic clinical information system is subject to a licensing, implementation, technology hosting, and support agreement with Cerner Corporation. In June 2011, we entered into an agreement with Cerner to begin a company-wide implementation of this system in 2012. Our inability, or the inability of Cerner, to continue to maintain and upgrade our information systems, software, and hardware could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. In addition, costs, unexpected problems, and interruptions associated with the implementation or transition to new systems or technology or with adequate support of those systems or technology across multiple hospitals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Successful execution of our current business plan depends on our key personnel.The success of our current business plan depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees and our ability to retain and motivate these individuals. We rely upon their ability, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith. There can be no assurance that we will retain our key executives and employees or that we can attract or retain other highly qualified individuals in the future. If we lose key personnel, we may be unable to replace them with personnel of comparable experience in, or knowledge of, the healthcare provider industry or our specific post-acute segment. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could prevent us from successfully executing our business plan and could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.Our leverage or level of indebtedness may have negative consequences for our business, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future.Although we have reduced our outstanding long-term debt substantially in recent years, we still had approximately $1.2 billion of long-term debt outstanding (including that portion of long-term debt classified as current and excluding $71.9 million in capital leases) as of December 31, 2012. See Note 8, Long-term Debt, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Subject to specified limitations, our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes permit us and our subsidiaries to incur material additional debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described here could intensify.Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:•limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy and other general corporate purposes;•making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, in government regulation and in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for us to react quickly to, changing conditions;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competing providers that have less debt; and•exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations for outstanding amounts under our credit facility, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates.We are subject to contingent liabilities, prevailing economic conditions, and financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. Although we expect to make scheduled interest payments and principal reductions, we cannot assure you changes in our business or other factors will not occur that may have the effect of preventing us from satisfying obligations under our debt instruments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other needs, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt, obtain additional financing or reduce expenditures or sell assets we deem necessary to our business. We cannot assure you any of these measures would be possible or any additional financing could be obtained. 18Table of ContentsThe restrictive covenants in our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes could affect our ability to execute aspects of our business plan successfully.The terms of our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes do, and our future debt instruments may, contain various provisions that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things:•incur or guarantee indebtedness;•pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock; or repay, redeem or repurchase our subordinated obligations;•issue or sell certain types of preferred stock;•make investments;•incur obligations that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to us;•sell assets;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•create certain liens;•enter into sale/leaseback transactions; and•merge, consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets.These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. For additional discussion of our material debt covenants, see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Item 7, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 8, Long-term Debt, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.In addition, our credit agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. See the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Item 7, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 8, Long-term Debt to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Although we remained in compliance with the financial ratios and financial condition tests as of December 31, 2012, we cannot assure you we will continue to do so. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. A severe downturn in earnings or, if we have outstanding borrowings under our credit facility at the time, a rapid increase in interest rates could impair our ability to comply with those financial ratios and financial condition tests and we may need to obtain waivers from the required proportion of the lenders to avoid being in default. If we try to obtain a waiver or other relief from the required lenders, we may not be able to obtain it or such relief might have a material cost to us or be on terms less favorable than those in our existing debt. If a default occurs, the lenders could exercise their rights, including declaring all the funds borrowed (together with accrued and unpaid interest) to be immediately due and payable, terminating their commitments or instituting foreclosure proceedings against our assets, which, in turn, could cause the default and acceleration of the maturity of our other indebtedness. A breach of any other restrictive covenants contained in our credit agreement or the indentures governing our senior notes would also (after giving effect to applicable grace periods, if any) result in an event of default with the same outcome.As of December 31, 2012, approximately 75% of our consolidated Property and equipment, net held by HealthSouth Corporation and its guarantor subsidiaries was pledged to the lenders under our credit agreement. See Note 8, Long-term Debt, and Note 21, Condensed Consolidating Financial Information, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, and 