Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations, and financial position are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating HealthSouth or any investment decision involving HealthSouth. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to our Company, our industry, or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this annual report. We are highly leveraged. As a consequence, a down-turn in earnings could impair our ability to comply with the financial covenants contained within our Credit Agreement and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary. Although we improved our leverage and liquidity during 2007, we remain highly leveraged. As discussed in Item 1, Business, “Recent Significant Events,” we reduced our long-term debt from $3.4 billion to approximately $2.0 billion during 2007. We believe the reduction in our long-term debt has eliminated significant uncertainty regarding our capital structure, improved our financial position, increased our liquidity and enhanced our operational flexibility. Based on the current borrowing capacity and leverage ratio required under our Credit Agreement, we do not believe there is significant risk in our ability to make additional draws under our revolving credit facility, if needed. We are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt. A down-turn in earnings could impair our ability to comply with the financial covenants contained within our Credit Agreement and impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary. If we anticipated a potential covenant violation, we would seek relief from our lenders, which would have some cost to us, and such relief might not be on terms as favorable to those in our existing Credit Agreement. The recent tightening in the credit markets will make additional financing more expensive and difficult to obtain. A default due to violation of the covenants contained within our Credit Agreement could require us to immediately repay all amounts then outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Certain trends in our business, including acute care volume weakness and pricing pressure, have created a challenging operating environment, and future changes could place additional pressure on our revenues and cash flow. In addition, we are subject to numerous contingent liabilities, to prevailing economic conditions, and to financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. Although we expect to make scheduled interest payments and principal reductions, we cannot assure you that changes in our business or other factors will not occur that may have the effect of preventing us from satisfying obligations under our debt. Reductions or changes in reimbursement from government or third-party payors and other regulatory changes affecting our industry could adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our Net operating revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. See Item 1, Business, “Sources of Revenues,” for a table identifying the sources and relative payor mix of our revenues. Historically, Congress and some state legislatures have periodically proposed significant changes in regulations governing the health care system. Many of these changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, significant reductions in the levels of, payments to health care providers for services under many government reimbursement programs. The recent 2007 Medicare Act has frozen the increase in Medicare payments to inpatient rehabilitation hospitals from April 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009. If we are not able to increase our volumes sufficiently to offset this price reduction, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our results could be further adversely affected by other changes in laws or regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as possible changes to or expansion of the audit processes conducted by Medicare contractors or Medicare recovery audit contractors. For a discussion of the 75% Rule and other factors affecting reimbursement for our services, see Item 1, Business, “Sources of Revenues – Medicare Reimbursement.” In addition, there are increasing pressures from many third-party payors to control health care costs and to reduce or limit increases in reimbursement rates for medical services. Our relationships with managed care and non-governmental third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, are generally governed by negotiated agreements. These agreements set forth the amounts we are entitled to receive for our services. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if we are unable to negotiate and maintain favorable agreements with third-party payors. 16 Additionally, our third-party payors may, from time to time, request audits of the amounts paid to us under our agreements with them. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if the audits uncover substantial overpayments made to us. Competition for staffing may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as physical therapists, nurses, and other health care professionals. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals. In some markets, the lack of availability of physical therapists, nurses, and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to health care providers. This shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is limited. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, physical therapists, nurses, and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The adoption of more restrictive Medicare coverage policies at the national or local levels could have an adverse impact on our ability to obtain Medicare reimbursement for inpatient rehabilitation services. Medicare providers also can be negatively affected by the adoption of coverage policies, either at the national or local levels, describing whether an item or service is covered and under what clinical circumstances it is considered to be reasonable, necessary, and appropriate. In the absence of a national coverage determination, local Medicare contractors and carriers may specify more restrictive criteria than otherwise would apply nationally. For instance, Cahaba Government Benefit Administrators, the Medicare contractor for many of our hospitals, has issued a local coverage determination setting forth very detailed criteria for determining the medical appropriateness of services provided by inpatient rehabilitation hospitals. We cannot predict whether other Medicare contractors will adopt additional local coverage determinations or other policies or how these will affect us. If we fail to comply with our Corporate Integrity Agreement, or if the HHS-OIG determines we have violated federal laws governing kickbacks and self-referrals, we could be subject to severe sanctions, including substantial civil money penalties. In December 2004, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) Office of the Inspector General (“HHS-OIG”) to promote our compliance with the requirements of Medicare, Medicaid, and all other federal health care programs. We have also entered into two addendums to this agreement. Under the agreement and addendums, which are effective for five years from January 1, 2005, we are subject to certain administrative requirements and are subject to review of certain Medicare cost reports and reimbursement claims by an Independent Review Organization. Our failure to comply with the material terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement could lead to suspension or exclusion from further participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently account for a substantial portion of our revenues. Further, if the HHS-OIG determines that we have violated the Anti-Kickback Law or the federal Stark statute’s general prohibition on physician self-referrals, we may be subject to significant civil monetary penalties, and may be excluded from further participation in federal health care programs. Any of these sanctions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and government regulations applicable to health care providers, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. As a health care provider, we are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things: • licensure, certification, and accreditation, • coding and billing for services, 17 • requirements of the 60% compliance threshold, • relationships with physicians and other referral sources, including physician self-referral and anti-kickback laws, • quality of medical care, • use and maintenance of medical supplies and equipment, • maintenance and security of medical records, • acquisition and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances, and • disposal of medical and hazardous waste. In the future, changes in these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our investment structure, facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs, operating procedures, and contractual arrangements. Although we have invested substantial time, effort, and expense in implementing internal controls and procedures designed to ensure regulatory compliance, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including (1) criminal penalties, (2) civil penalties, including monetary penalties and the loss of our licenses to operate one or more of our hospitals, and (3) exclusion or suspension of one or more of our hospitals from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state health care programs. Our hospitals face national, regional, and local competition for patients from other health care providers. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Although we are the largest provider of rehabilitative health care services, in any particular market we may encounter competition from local or national entities with longer operating histories or other competitive advantages. There can be no assurance that this competition, or other competition which we may encounter in the future, will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, weakening certificate of need laws in some states could potentially increase competition in those states. We remain a defendant in a number of lawsuits, and may be subject to liability under qui tam cases, the outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Although we have settled the major litigation pending against us, we remain a defendant in numerous lawsuits which are discussed in Note 21, Contingencies and Other Commitments, to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Substantial damages and other remedies assessed against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 