Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating HealthSouth or any investment decision involving HealthSouth. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to our company, our industry, or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this annual report. 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to Pending Governmental Investigations and Litigation Any adverse outcome of continuing investigations being conducted by the DOJ and other governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on us. While we are fully cooperating with the DOJ and other governmental authorities in their investigations, we cannot predict the outcome of those investigations. Such investigations could have a material adverse effect on us, the trading prices of our securities, and our ability to raise additional capital. If we are convicted of a crime, certain contracts and licenses that are material to our operations could be revoked which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Several lawsuits have been filed against us involving our accounting practices and other related matters and the outcome of these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. A number of class action, derivative, and individual lawsuits have been filed against us, as well as certain of our past and present officers and directors, relating to, among other things, allegations of numerous violations of securities laws. Although we have reached a preliminary agreement in principle to settle these cases, there can be no assurances that a final settlement can be reached or that the proposed settlement will receive court approval. Substantial damages or other monetary remedies assessed against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a discussion of these lawsuits. Although we have entered into a settlement with various government agencies and other parties regarding our participation in federal health care programs, we remain a defendant in litigation relating to our participation in federal health care programs, and the outcome of these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Qui tam actions brought under the False Claims Act are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information contained in the complaint are the relator, the federal government, and the court. Therefore, it is possible that additional qui tam actions have been filed against us that we are unaware of or which we have been ordered by the court not to discuss until the court lifts the seal from the case. Thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure under the False Claims Act based on qui tam actions other than those discussed in this report. CMS has been granted authority to suspend payments, in whole or in part, to Medicare providers if CMS possesses reliable information that an overpayment, fraud, or willful misrepresentation exists. If CMS suspects that payments are being or have been made as the result of fraud or misrepresentation, CMS may suspend payment at any time without providing us with prior notice. The initial suspension period is limited to 180 days. However, the payment suspension period can be extended almost indefinitely if the matter is under investigation by the HHS-OIG or the DOJ. Therefore, we are unable to predict if or when we may be subject to a suspension of payments by the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs, the possible length of the suspension period or the potential cash flow impact of a payment suspension. Any such suspension would adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If the HHS-OIG determines we have violated federal laws governing kickbacks and self-referrals, it could impose substantial civil monetary penalties on us and could seek to exclude our provider entities from participation in the federal health care programs which would severely impact our financial condition and ability to continue operations. If the HHS-OIG determines that we have violated the Anti-Kickback Law, the HHS-OIG may commence administrative proceedings to impose penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Law of up to three times the amount of damages and $11,000 per claim for each false or fraudulent claim allegedly submitted by us. If the 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements HHS-OIG determines that we have violated the federal Stark statute’s general prohibition on physician self-referrals (42 U.S.C. § 1395nn), it may impose a civil monetary penalty of up to $15,000 per service billed in violation of the statute. The HHS-OIG has been granted the authority to exclude persons or entities from participation in the federal health care programs for a variety of reasons, including: (1) committing an act in violation of the Anti-Kickback Law, (2) submitting a false or fraudulent claim, (3) submitting a claim for services rendered in violation of the physician self-referral statute, or (4) violating any other provision of the Civil Monetary Penalties Law. Thus, if the HHS-OIG believes that we have submitted false or fraudulent claims, paid or received kickbacks, submitted claims in violation of the physician self-referral law, or committed any other act in violation of the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, the HHS-OIG could move to exclude our provider entities from participation in the federal health care programs. Limitations of our director and officer liability insurance and potential indemnification obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our director and officer liability insurance coverage for our current officers and directors is in the amount of $200 million, which includes $50 million in coverage for individual directors and officers in circumstances where we are legally or financially unable to indemnify these individuals. Examples of a company’s inability to indemnify would include derivative suits, bankruptcy/financial restraints, and claims that are against public policy. Of the $200 million coverage, we have a self-insured retention of $10 million for claims against us. As discussed in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, several of our current and former directors and officers have been sued based on allegations that they participated in accounting fraud and other illegal activities during periods ended March 18, 2003. Several of our insurance carriers have filed lawsuits against us and are attempting to have our director and officer liability policies that provide coverage for those claims voided or cancelled or have advised us that they do not intend to provide coverage with respect to those pending actions. We have reached a preliminary agreement in principle with our insurance carriers to resolve our claims against each other. In the proposed settlement, the carriers for three of our prior policy periods will contribute $230 million in cash toward the settlement of certain federal securities and derivative litigation. In our settlement discussions, our insurance carriers for these periods are demanding a full policy release of any future claims against the policies, in which event, we will not be able to rely on any additional insurance proceeds to fund any settlements, judgments, or indemnification claims relating to actions occurring on or prior to July 31, 2003. See Item 1, Business, “Securities Litigation Settlement.” Under our bylaws and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and directors. Although we contest the validity of his claim, Richard M. Scrushy recently requested that we reimburse him for costs relating to his criminal defense, which he estimates exceed $31 million. If the settlement described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, “Insurance Coverage Litigation” is approved on the terms contained in the preliminary settlement, we will not have insurance to cover expenses incurred or liabilities imposed in connection with the pending actions against certain of our past and present directors and officers who we may be required to indemnify. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We are highly leveraged. As a consequence, a substantial down-turn in earnings could jeopardize our ability to make our interest payments and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2005 we had approximately $3.4 billion of long-term debt outstanding. As discussed in Item 1, Business, “Recapitalization Transactions,” we have prepaid substantially all of our prior indebtedness with proceeds from a series of recapitalization transactions and replaced it with approximately $3 billion of new long-term debt. Although we remain highly leveraged, we believe these 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements recapitalization transactions have eliminated significant uncertainty regarding our capital structure and have improved our financial condition by reducing our refinancing risk, increasing our liquidity, improving our operational flexibility, improving our credit profile, and reducing our interest rate exposure. We are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt. A substantial down-turn in earnings could jeopardize our ability to make our interest payments and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary. Certain trends in our business, including declining revenues resulting from the 75% Rule, acute care volume weakness, recent IRF-PPS changes, and continued weakness in our surgery centers division, have created a challenging operating environment, and future changes could place additional pressure on our revenues and cash flow. In addition, we are subject to numerous contingent liabilities and are subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. Although we expect to make scheduled interest payments and principal reductions, we cannot assure you that changes in our business or other factors will not occur that may have the effect of preventing us from satisfying obligations under our debt. We have significant cash obligations relating to government settlements that, in addition to our indebtedness, may limit cash flow available for our operations and could impair our ability to service debt or obtain additional financing, if necessary. In addition to being highly leveraged, we have significant cash obligations we must meet in the near future as a result of recent settlements with various federal agencies. Specifically, we are obligated to pay $170 million (plus interest) in quarterly installments ending in the fourth quarter of 2007 to satisfy our obligations under a settlement described in Item 1, Business, “Medicare Program Settlement.” Furthermore, we are obligated to pay $87.5 million to the SEC in four installments ending in the fourth quarter of 2007 to satisfy our obligations under a settlement described in Item 1, Business, “SEC Settlement.” We likely will not apply to relist our common stock on a major securities exchange until the middle of 2006, and do not expect to be able to meet the registration requirements of the Securities Act until the first quarter of 2007, at the earliest. Until we are relisted on a major securities exchange, the prices at which our common stock trades in the over-the-counter market may be much more volatile than if it traded on a major securities exchange. Until we can meet the registration requirements of the Securities Act, our access to capital will be limited. We do not expect to apply for relisting on a major securities exchange until the middle of 2006. While our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and in the Pink Sheets, there is currently only a limited trading market for our shares and the market price of these shares may be volatile for the foreseeable future. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the price and volume of our shares to be more exaggerated than would occur on a major securities exchange. We cannot assure you that prior to relisting our shares on a major securities exchange, you will be able to sell shares of our common stock without a considerable delay or significant impact on the sale price. In addition, it will likely be the first quarter of 2007, at the earliest, before we can meet the registration requirements of the Securities Act and thereby have access to public capital markets. Because our internal controls are still ineffective, it may be difficult to file our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for 2006 on a timely basis, which could extend the time it will take for us to satisfy the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Consequently, we will not have access to public capital markets until the first quarter of 2007, at the earliest, which will make it more difficult to grow our business. We have determined that our internal controls are currently ineffective. The lack of effective internal controls could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to carry out our strategic business plan. As discussed in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, our new management team, under the supervision and with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements effectiveness of the design and operation of HealthSouth’s internal controls. As of December 31, 2005, they concluded that HealthSouth’s disclosure controls and procedures, including HealthSouth’s internal control over financial reporting, were not effective. Although we have made improvements in our internal controls, if we are unsuccessful in our focused effort to permanently and effectively remediate the weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and to establish and maintain effective corporate governance practices, our financial condition and ability to carry out our strategic business plan, our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner, and our ability to earn and retain the trust of our patients, physician partners, employees, and security holders, could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business The continuing time, effort, and expense relating to investigations and implementation of improved internal controls and procedures, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition to the challenges of the various government investigations and extensive litigation we face, our new management team has spent considerable time and effort dealing with internal and external investigations involving our historical accounting and internal controls, and in developing and implementing accounting policies and procedures, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. The significant time and effort spent may have adversely affected our operations and may continue to do so in the future. Current and prospective investors, patients, physician partners, and employees may react adversely to the continuing negative effects of the March 2003 crisis and the financial reporting and operational issues that were uncovered as a result of that crisis. Our future success depends in large part on the support of our current and future investors, patients, physician partners, and employees. The various legal, financial, and operational challenges resulting from the financial fraud perpetrated by certain members of our prior management team has caused negative publicity, the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE, and has, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the market price of our securities. In addition, the reconstruction of our historical financial records has caused us to restate the financial statements of certain of our partnerships. While the process of communicating the effect of these restatement activities to our partners has begun, we anticipate the process of resolving issues arising from these restatements will continue at least through 2006, which may have a negative impact on our relationships with our current partners and may create an environment that is not conducive to attracting new partners. Finally, employees and prospective employees may factor in these considerations relating to our stability and the value of any equity incentives in their decision-making regarding employment opportunities. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and government regulations applicable to us, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things: • licensure, certification, and accreditation, • coding and billing for services, • relationships with physicians and other referral sources, including physician self-referral and anti-kickback laws, • quality of medical care, • use and maintenance of medical supplies and equipment, 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • maintenance and security of medical records, • accuracy of billing operations, and • disposal of medical and hazardous waste. In the future, changes in these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our investment structure, facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs, operating procedures, and contractual arrangements. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including (1) criminal penalties, (2) civil penalties, including monetary penalties and the loss of our licenses to operate one or more of our facilities, and (3) exclusion or suspension of one or more of our facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state health care programs. If we fail to comply with our new Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to severe sanctions. In December 2004, we entered into a new corporate integrity agreement with the HHS-OIG to promote our compliance with the requirements of Medicare, Medicaid, and all other federal health care programs. Under that agreement, which is effective for five years from January 1, 2005, we are subject to certain administrative requirements and are subject to review of certain Medicare cost reports and reimbursement claims by an Independent Review Organization. Our failure to comply with the material terms of the corporate integrity agreement could lead to suspension or exclusion from further participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently account for a substantial portion of our revenues. Any of these sanctions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Reductions or changes in reimbursement from government or third-party payors could adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our net operating revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In 2005, 47.5% of our consolidated net operating revenues was derived from Medicare, 2.3% was derived from Medicaid, 7.4% was derived from workers’ compensation plans, 33.1% was derived from managed care and other discount plans, 5.4% was derived from other third-party payors, 1.8% was derived from patients, and 2.5% was derived from other income. There are increasing pressures from many payors to control health care costs and to reduce or limit increases in reimbursement rates for medical services. Our operating results could be adversely affected by changes in laws or regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs. See Item 1, Business, “Sources of Revenue.” Historically, Congress and some state legislatures have periodically proposed significant changes in the health care system. Many of these changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, significant reductions in the levels of, payments to health care providers for services under many government reimbursement programs. See Item 1, Business, “Regulation” for a discussion of potential changes to the health care system that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In particular, as discussed in Item 1, Business, “Sources of Revenues,” changes to the 75% Rule and IRF-PPS have combined to create a very challenging operating environment for our inpatient division. The volume volatility created by the 75% Rule has had a significantly negative impact on our inpatient division’s net operating revenues in 2005. Thus far, we have been able to partially mitigate the impact of the 75% Rule on our inpatient division’s operating earnings by implementing the mitigation strategies discussed in Item 1, Business, “Our Business—Operating Divisions.” However, the combination of volume volatility created by the 75% Rule and lower unit pricing resulting from IRF-PPS changes reduced our operating earnings in 2005 and will have a continuing negative impact on our operating earnings in 2006. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for additional information about the impact of these changes. In addition, because we receive a significant percentage of our revenues from our inpatient division, and because our inpatient division receives a significant percentage of its revenues from Medicare, our inability to achieve continued compliance with or continue to mitigate the negative effects of the 75% Rule could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our relationships with third-party payors, such as HMOs and PPOs, are generally governed by negotiated agreements. These agreements set forth the amounts we are entitled to receive for our services. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if we are unable to negotiate and maintain favorable agreements with third-party payors. In addition, our third-party payors may, from time to time, request audits of the amounts paid to us under our agreements with them. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate and within certain of our operating divisions if the audits uncover substantial overpayments made to us. As part of the reconstruction of accounting records, we discovered the existence of substantial credit balances, which could represent posting errors, misapplied payments or overpayments due to patients and third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We have reviewed these accounts to determine whether and to what extent we may be required to repay any of these credit balances to patients or third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We could be adversely affected if the amount we are required to repay exceeds our current estimates. The adoption of more restrictive Medicare coverage policies at the national and/or local levels could have an adverse impact on our ability to obtain Medicare reimbursement for inpatient rehabilitation services. Medicare providers also can be negatively affected by the adoption of coverage policies, either at the national or local levels, describing whether an item or service is covered and under what clinical circumstances it is considered to be reasonable, necessary, and appropriate. In the absence of a national coverage determination, local Medicare fiscal intermediaries and carriers may specify more restrictive criteria than otherwise would apply nationally. For instance, Cahaba Government Benefit Administrators, the fiscal intermediary for many of our inpatient division facilities, has issued a local coverage determination setting forth very detailed criteria for determining the medical appropriateness of services provided by IRFs. We cannot predict whether other Medicare contractors will adopt additional local coverage determinations or other policies or how these will affect us. Downward pressure on pricing from commercial and government payors may adversely affect the revenues and profitability of certain of our operations. We have experienced downward pressure on prices in our markets, from both commercial and government payors, and we anticipate continuing price pressure in all our divisions. There can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain current prices in the face of continuing pricing pressures. We may be required to implement additional measures to mitigate these pressures and further enhance the efficiency of our operations or, in the alternative, dispose of inefficient operations. These pricing pressures have had, and if we are not successful in mitigating such pressures in the future, may continue to have, an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our surgery centers and our outpatient and diagnostic divisions, including certain operations which we are currently considering divesting. In the event that we decide to divest certain inefficient operations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully do so at all, or on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us. As discussed elsewhere in this report, we have signed an agreement to sell our acute care facility located in Birmingham, Alabama. That operation reported an approximate $35 million loss from operations, before provision for income tax expense, in 2005. This loss is included in our loss from discontinued operations (See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, we have received inquiries from parties interested in acquiring our diagnostic division. That operation represented approximately 7.1% of our consolidated net operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. The diagnostic division’s operating loss for 2005 was approximately $1.0 million (See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). No final decision has been made with respect to the divestiture of our diagnostic division at this time. 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our facilities face national, regional, and local competition for patients from other health care providers. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Although we are the largest provider of rehabilitative health care services, and one of the largest providers of ambulatory surgery and outpatient diagnostic services in the United States, in any particular market we may encounter competition from local or national entities with longer operating histories or other competitive advantages. There can be no assurance that this competition, or other competition which we may encounter in the future, will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, weakening certificate of need laws in some states could potentially increase competition in those states. Competition for staffing may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as physical therapists, nurses, and other health care professionals. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our facilities. In some markets, the availability of physical therapists, nurses, and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to health care providers. This shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is limited. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, physical therapists, nurses, and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We depend on our relationships with the physicians who use our facilities. Our business depends upon the efforts of the physicians who provide health care services at our facilities and/or refer their patients to our facilities and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. Each physician referring or treating patients at one of our facilities may also practice at other facilities not owned by us. At each of our facilities, our business could be adversely affected if a significant number of key physicians or a group of physicians: • terminate their relationship with, or reduced their use of, our facilities, • fail to maintain the quality of care provided or otherwise adhere to professional standards at our facilities, or • exit the market entirely. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 