Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations, and financial position are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating HealthSouth or any investment decision involving HealthSouth. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to our company, our industry, or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this annual report. Risks Related to Our Financial Position We are highly leveraged. As a consequence, a substantial down-turn in earnings could jeopardize our ability to make our interest payments and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2006 we had approximately $3.4 billion of long-term debt outstanding. As discussed in Item 1, Business, “Recent Significant Events,” we have prepaid substantially all of our prior indebtedness with proceeds from a series of recapitalization transactions and replaced it with approximately $3 billion of new long-term debt. Although we remain highly leveraged, we believe these recapitalization transactions have eliminated significant uncertainty regarding our capital structure and have improved our financial position by reducing our refinancing risk, increasing our liquidity, improving our operational flexibility, improving our credit profile, and reducing our interest rate exposure. We are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt. A substantial down-turn in earnings could jeopardize our ability to make our interest payments and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary. Certain trends in our business, including declining revenues resulting from the 75% Rule, acute care volume weakness, and pricing pressure have created a challenging operating environment, and future changes could place additional pressure on our revenues and cash flow. In addition, we are subject to numerous contingent liabilities and are subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. Although we expect to make scheduled interest payments and principal reductions, we cannot assure you that changes in our business or other factors will not occur that may have the effect of preventing us from satisfying obligations under our debt. We have significant cash obligations relating to government settlements that, in addition to our indebtedness, may limit cash flow available for our operations and could impair our ability to service debt or obtain additional financing, if necessary. In addition to being highly leveraged, we have significant cash obligations we must meet in the near future as a result of recent settlements with various federal agencies. Specifically, we remain obligated to pay $86.7 million (plus interest) in quarterly installments ending in the fourth quarter of 2007 to satisfy our obligations under a settlement described in Note 22, Medicare Program Settlement, to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, we remain obligated to pay $50.0 million to the SEC in two installments ending in the fourth quarter of 2007 to satisfy our obligations under a settlement described in Note 23, SEC Settlement, to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. We are still communicating the results of the reconstruction of our accounts to our partners, which could result in litigation. Following the discovery of the financial fraud committed by members of our former management, we reconstructed our accounting records and restated our previously reported financial statements for 2000 and 2001. As a result of this effort, we also were able to restate the financial statements of our subsidiaries and affiliated entities, including entities owned in partnership with various third parties. We are well underway with the process of communicating the effect of the restatement to our joint venture partners, and have resolved or established agreements in principle to resolve issues arising out of the restatement with many of our joint venture partners. However, we may be unable to resolve issues arising out of the restatement with all of our joint venture partners, which could result in litigation, and the results of any such litigation are currently unknown. We have determined that our internal controls relating to income taxes are currently ineffective. As discussed in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, our management team, under the supervision and with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of HealthSouth’s internal controls. As of December 31, 2006, they concluded that HealthSouth’s internal control over financial reporting as they relate to income taxes is currently ineffective. Although we have made 20 substantial improvements in our internal controls, any material weakness in our internal controls over income taxes could impair our ability to report our financial position and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to successfully consummate transactions related to our strategic repositioning and, even if consummated, the implementation of such transactions could adversely affect us. As discussed above, on August 14, 2006, we announced our intent to seek strategic alternatives for our surgery centers and outpatient divisions, along with our diagnostic division (previously designated as “non-core”), and to reposition the company as a “pure play” provider of post-acute health care services, with an initial focus on rehabilitative health care. We may be unable to complete these transactions on satisfactory terms. In addition, the uncertainty and operational disruption resulting from these transactions, including any interim period during which we are required to provide transition services to one or more divisions, could have a negative effect on our business. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and government regulations applicable to us as a health care provider, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. As a health care provider, we are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things: • licensure, certification, and accreditation, • coding and billing for services, • relationships with physicians and other referral sources, including physician self-referral and anti-kickback laws, • quality of medical care, • use and maintenance of medical supplies and equipment, • maintenance and security of medical records, • accuracy of billing operations, and • disposal of medical and hazardous waste. In the future, changes in these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our investment structure, facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs, operating procedures, and contractual arrangements. Although we have invested substantial time, effort, and expense in implementing internal controls and procedures designed to ensure regulatory compliance, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including (1) criminal penalties, (2) civil penalties, including monetary penalties and the loss of our licenses to operate one or more of our facilities, and (3) exclusion or suspension of one or more of our facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state health care programs. If we fail to comply with our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to severe sanctions. In December 2004, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the HHS-OIG to promote our compliance with the requirements of Medicare, Medicaid, and all other federal health care programs. Under that agreement, which is effective for five years from January 1, 2005, we are subject to certain administrative requirements and are subject to review of certain Medicare cost reports and reimbursement claims by an Independent Review Organization. Our failure to comply with the material terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement could lead to suspension or exclusion from further participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently account for a substantial portion of our revenues. Any of these sanctions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Although we have entered into a settlement with various government agencies and other parties regarding our participation in federal health care programs, we remain a defendant in litigation relating to our participation in federal health care programs, and the outcome of these lawsuits and others of which we may not be aware may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The False Claims Act, 18 U.S.C. § 287, allows private citizens, called “relators,” to institute civil proceedings alleging violations of the False Claims Act. These so-called qui tam, or “whistleblower,” cases are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information contained in the complaint are the relator, the federal government, and the presiding court. We settled one consolidated qui tam lawsuit filed in 2004, the Devage matter, which is discussed in Note 22, 21 Medicare Program Settlement, to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. We remain a defendant in a qui tam action which is discussed in Note 25, Contingencies and Other Commitments, to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. It is possible that qui tam lawsuits other than those discussed in this report have been filed against us and that we are unaware of such filings or have been ordered by the presiding court not to discuss or disclose the filing of such lawsuits. We may be subject to liability under one or more undisclosed qui tam cases brought pursuant to the False Claims Act. CMS has been granted authority to suspend payments, in whole or in part, to Medicare providers if CMS possesses reliable information that an overpayment, fraud, or willful misrepresentation exists. If CMS suspects that payments are being or have been made as the result of fraud or misrepresentation, CMS may suspend payment at any time without providing us with prior notice. The initial suspension period is limited to 180 days. However, the payment suspension period can be extended almost indefinitely if the matter is under investigation by the HHS-OIG or the DOJ. Therefore, we are unable to predict if or when we may be subject to a suspension of payments by the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs, the possible length of the suspension period or the potential cash flow impact of a payment suspension. Any such suspension would adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If the HHS-OIG determines we have violated federal laws governing kickbacks and self-referrals, it could impose substantial civil monetary penalties on us and could seek to exclude our provider entities from participation in the federal health care programs which would severely impact our financial position and ability to continue operations. If the HHS-OIG determines that we have violated the Anti-Kickback Law, the HHS-OIG may commence administrative proceedings to impose penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Law of up to three times the amount of damages and $11,000 per claim for each false or fraudulent claim allegedly submitted by us. If the HHS-OIG determines that we have violated the federal Stark statute’s general prohibition on physician self-referrals (42 U.S.C. § 1395nn), it may impose a civil monetary penalty of up to $15,000 per service billed in violation of the statute. The HHS-OIG has been granted the authority to exclude persons or entities from participation in the federal health care programs for a variety of reasons, including: (1) committing an act in violation of the Anti-Kickback Law, (2) submitting a false or fraudulent claim, (3) submitting a claim for services rendered in violation of the physician self-referral statute, or (4) violating any other provision of the Civil Monetary Penalties Law. Thus, if the HHS-OIG believes that we have submitted false or fraudulent claims, paid or received kickbacks, submitted claims in violation of the physician self-referral law, or committed any other act in violation of the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, the HHS-OIG could move to exclude our provider entities from participation in the federal health care programs. Reductions or changes in reimbursement from government or third-party payors could adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our Net operating revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In 2006, 47.4% of our consolidated Net operating revenues was derived from Medicare, 2.3% was derived from Medicaid, 6.8% was derived from workers’ compensation plans, 34.8% was derived from managed care and other discount plans, 4.7% was derived from other third-party payors, 1.4% was derived from patients, and 2.6% was derived from other income. There are increasing pressures from many payors to control health care costs and to reduce or limit increases in reimbursement rates for medical services. Our operating results could be adversely affected by changes in laws or regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs. For a discussion of the 75% Rule and other factors affecting reimbursement for our services, see Item 1, Business, “Sources of Revenues.” Historically, Congress and some state legislatures have periodically proposed significant changes in the health care system. Many of these changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, significant reductions in the levels of, payments to health care providers for services under many government reimbursement programs. See Item 1, Business, “Regulation” for a discussion of recent and proposed changes to the health care system that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our relationships with third-party payors, such as HMOs and PPOs, are generally governed by negotiated agreements. These agreements set forth the amounts we are entitled to receive for our services. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate if we are unable to negotiate and maintain favorable agreements with third-party payors. In addition, our third-party payors may, from time to time, request audits of the amounts paid to us under our agreements with them. We could be adversely affected in some of the markets where we operate and within certain of our operating divisions if the audits uncover substantial overpayments made to us. As part of the reconstruction of accounting records for the preparation of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 and the restatement for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, we discovered the existence of substantial credit balances, which could represent posting errors, misapplied payments or overpayments due to patients and third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We are continuing to review these accounts to determine whether and to what extent we may be required 22 to repay any of these credit balances to patients or third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We could be adversely affected if the amount we are required to repay exceeds our current estimates. The adoption of more restrictive Medicare coverage policies at the national and/or local levels could have an adverse impact on our ability to obtain Medicare reimbursement for inpatient rehabilitation services. Medicare providers also can be negatively affected by the adoption of coverage policies, either at the national or local levels, describing whether an item or service is covered and under what clinical circumstances it is considered to be reasonable, necessary, and appropriate. In the absence of a national coverage determination, local Medicare fiscal intermediaries and carriers may specify more restrictive criteria than otherwise would apply nationally. For instance, Cahaba Government Benefit Administrators, the fiscal intermediary for many of our inpatient division facilities, has issued a local coverage determination setting forth very detailed criteria for determining the medical appropriateness of services provided by IRFs. We cannot predict whether other Medicare contractors will adopt additional local coverage determinations or other policies or how these will affect us. Downward pressure on pricing from commercial and government payors may adversely affect the revenues and profitability of certain of our operations. We have experienced downward pressure on prices in our markets, from both commercial and government payors, and we anticipate continuing price pressure in all our divisions. There can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain current prices in the face of continuing pricing pressures. We may be required to implement additional measures to mitigate these pressures and further enhance the efficiency of our operations or, in the alternative, dispose of inefficient operations. Our facilities face national, regional, and local competition for patients from other health care providers. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Although we are the largest provider of rehabilitative health care services, and one of the largest providers of ambulatory surgery and outpatient diagnostic services in the United States, in any particular market we may encounter competition from local or national entities with longer operating histories or other competitive advantages. There can be no assurance that this competition, or other competition which we may encounter in the future, will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, weakening certificate of need laws in some states could potentially increase competition in those states. Competition for staffing may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as physical therapists, nurses, and other health care professionals. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our facilities. In some markets, the lack of availability of physical therapists, nurses, and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to health care providers. This shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is limited. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, physical therapists, nurses, and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We depend on our relationships with the physicians who use our facilities. Our business depends upon the efforts of the physicians who provide health care services at our facilities and/or refer their patients to our facilities and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. Each physician referring or treating patients at one of our facilities may also practice at other facilities not owned by us. At each of our facilities, our business could be adversely affected if a significant number of key physicians or a group of physicians: • terminate their relationship with, or reduced their use of, our facilities, • fail to maintain the quality of care provided or otherwise adhere to professional standards at our facilities, or • exit the market entirely. 23 Risks Related to Pending Governmental Investigations and Litigation Any adverse outcome of continuing governmental investigations relating to certain self-disclosures could have a material adverse effect on us. We remain the subject of governmental investigations relating to certain self-disclosures, all of which relate to matters previously disclosed in Item 13, Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, “Other Transactions,” to our comprehensive Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. While we are fully cooperating with the DOJ and other governmental authorities in their investigations, we cannot predict the outcome of those investigations. Such investigations could result in material financial penalties. We remain a defendant in a number of lawsuits, the outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Although we have settled the major litigation pending against us, we remain a defendant in numerous lawsuits which are discussed in Note 25, Contingencies and Other Commitments, to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Substantial damages and other remedies assessed against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 