Item 1A. Risk Factors Important factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. If any of the events discussed in these risk factors occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected in a material way and the market value of our common stock could decline. This Item 1A includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements on page 1. A deteriorating economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our performance is subject to overall economic conditions and their impact on factors such as consumer spending, which have recently declined significantly and may be subject to further declines for the foreseeable future. Discretionary consumer spending has been seriously impacted by a variety of conditions, including unemployment, consumer debt levels, uncertainty in the real estate, mortgage, and credit markets, reductions in net worth, and other macroeconomic conditions that have negatively impacted consumer confidence. There can be no assurances that government and business responses to the current economic crisis and disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence. Discretionary consumer spending generally declines during recessionary periods and we are currently experiencing a severe recession. Because spending for dining at restaurants can generally be considered a discretionary purchase, we may experience a more negative impact on our business due to these conditions than other companies that don’t depend on discretionary spending. Our business depends on members’ use of registered payment cards at participating restaurants. We have seen a marked decline in our members’ average spend at participating restaurants throughout the second half of 2008. If the national or local economy continues to deteriorate in the regions in which we do business, members may continue to perceive that they have less disposable income to spend dining out, and as a consequence, may spend less. If members spend less, our revenues may decline even if we maintain or increase the number of restaurants participating in our programs, and therefore may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, if members have less available credit on their registered credit cards, they might not dine out as frequently or we may not capture all of the members’ dining activity. In addition, a sustained economic downturn could cause participating restaurants to go out of business as a result of a decline in overall consumer spending. As with the decline in member spending that we have recently observed, we also have seen an increase in the failure rate of restaurants towards the end of 2008. Restaurants may continue to close or declare bankruptcy in greater numbers than in the past. It is likely that, if the number of restaurants entering bankruptcy rises or if a participating restaurant closes before the end of their participation in our dining credits program, there would be an increase in dining credits losses. If participating restaurants close or declare bankruptcy at higher rates than in the past, we could suffer higher than historical levels of losses on our existing dining credits portfolio, which could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, and financial condition. Because the majority of our participating restaurants are located in major metropolitan and surrounding areas like New York City, Chicago, Atlanta, South Florida, Dallas, and the San Francisco Bay area, to the extent any of these geographic areas experience any of the above described conditions to a greater extent than other geographic areas, it could have a materially negative effect on our business. We depend on our ability to attract and retain restaurants. Despite our belief that the current economy may make our programs more attractive to merchants searching for alternative means of marketing and financing, our business still requires significant marketing and sales efforts to restaurants. We are always at risk for decreases in the number of participating restaurants. Because of 9 Table of Contents this, we constantly need to recruit new restaurants to participate in our programs. We must recruit new restaurants in part due to the high rate of restaurant failures that we historically have seen and that have now increased since late 2008. We must also recruit new restaurants to replace restaurants that choose not to continue to participate in our programs. We need to continually demonstrate to our participating restaurants the value of our programs in order to retain them. If we are unable to demonstrate the value of our programs or if our sales force is otherwise ineffective, we may be unable to attract additional restaurants to our program or retain restaurants already participating in our program. As a result of our view in early 2008 that the economy would adversely impact the restaurant industry, we shortened the expected usage period of dining credits on a risk adjusted basis for new and renewed dining credits deals. By shortening this timeframe, we reduced our risk exposure to an individual restaurant and on an aggregate basis we reduced the risk exposure in the dining credits portfolio. In light of the challenging economic conditions, we intend to continue this practice of purchasing dining credits on a risk adjusted basis and with shorter usage periods. However, the shorter timeframe means that we purchase fewer dining credits, which reduces the size of our dining credits portfolio. Also, if we purchase fewer dining credits from a restaurant, the restaurant may leave our program earlier, which may result in fewer restaurants in our program. It also means that we must devote more time to the retention of restaurants in our programs. Purchasing fewer dining credits also reduces the total revenue that we may realize from that deal, and if we are unable to renew that restaurant or enter into other new deals to replace that restaurant, our revenues may decline and may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. During 2007 and 2008, we experienced a decline in average revenue per merchant due to a decrease in member spending at participating restaurants and the management of our members’ share of individual restaurants’ business. We manage our members’ share of individual restaurants’ business by not marketing or providing rewards to certain members for dining at particular restaurants. When we manage in this manner, we do not receive revenue from restaurants for those non-reward transactions. A decline in average revenue per merchant means that we must increase the number of restaurants that participate in our programs to maintain or grow our revenues. Even if we attract and retain enough restaurants to maintain or increase the number of restaurants that participate in our programs, our revenues may decline if average revenue per merchant declines, and may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We rely on our due diligence process and credit evaluation tools to assess the financial risk of proposed deals and the risk profile of restaurants participating in our Marketing Credits Program. We seek to balance the financial risk of our restaurant deals with our desire to attract and retain restaurants. If our acceptance of financial risk is too conservative, it will make it more difficult for us to attract new participating restaurants or retain existing participating restaurants. On the other hand, if we accept too many deals with greater financial risk, we will increase the number of restaurants in our program but we may also experience greater dining credits losses. In some cases, we are not able to recover all of the dining credits we have purchased from a restaurant, resulting in a loss. We provide allowances for doubtful accounts based on our estimate of losses that would result from the inability of participating merchants to remain in business or a merchant’s unwillingness to honor its obligations relating to dining credits. We expect the economic environment for the restaurant industry to continue to be very challenging in 2009, as it was in 2008. We believe that a difficult economy may make our marketing and dining credits programs more attractive to merchants who are looking for ways to increase revenues and have access to capital that has otherwise disappeared from other financing sources. As a result, we may experience a rise in applications to join our Marketing Credits program from restaurants whose financial condition is worse than we otherwise would see. Although we have implemented more stringent credit policies to appropriately assess the risk of these struggling restaurants, our efforts may make the dining credits program too costly or not otherwise attractive to other merchants who we would like to attract or retain. 10 Table of Contents An absence of desirable restaurants could cause members to either become less engaged or cancel their memberships with us or cause program partners to choose not to participate in our programs. This would reduce our revenues and profitability and harm our ability to attract new members, participating restaurants and program partners. We are susceptible to restaurant credit risk and our allowance for losses related to restaurant credit risk may prove inadequate to absorb actual losses. We purchase a portion of future member transactions from restaurants that participate in our Marketing Credits Program. If a participating restaurant fails, we may not realize any value for the portion of future member transactions that we purchased and that have not been realized when the restaurant ceases to do business. We refer to these future member transactions as dining credits in our financial statements. Even if a participating restaurant stays in business, it may breach its agreement with us and we may incur costs to enforce our agreement and may not recover amounts sufficient to compensate us for damages that we suffer from the breach. We perform due diligence and credit analysis on dining credits purchase transactions, we generally secure the restaurants’ obligations by obtaining personal guarantees from restaurant owners, obtain blanket security agreements from certain restaurants, and we work to enforce our contracts with restaurants. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate to ensure that we will realize the full value of every contract that we have entered into with our participating restaurants. We maintain an allowance for dining credits losses based on our estimates of losses that would result from the inability of participating restaurants to remain in business or our restaurants’ breach of their contracts, which we refer to as our allowance for doubtful dining credits accounts. We perform a quarterly analysis of the adequacy of our allowance and, if necessary, adjust this allowance. This analysis is based on a number of factors, including the specific identification of at-risk dining credits, whether the account has been referred to legal collections, the date of the last payment received from the merchant, whether our attempt to debit the merchant’s bank account for payment has been rejected, the merchant’s commercial credit score and the aging of the dining credits account. The amount of our allowance, however, is an estimate, and we cannot assure you that our actual dining credits losses will not be materially greater than our allowance for doubtful accounts. Although we refined our loss reserve methodology during the second quarter of 2008 to consider such criteria as listed above, significant risks remain in light of the economic crisis and decline in consumer spending. If we materially underestimate our actual dining credits losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend upon our relationships with payment card issuers, transaction processors, presenters and aggregators. Payment card transaction processing is an integral part of our business, and our relationships with payment card issuers, payment card processors, transaction presenters and aggregators of payment card transactions are very important. During 2008, we obtained transaction data for approximately 30% of our sales and processed collections of approximately 13% of sales through our relationship with Golden Retriever Systems, L.L.C. In addition, during 2008, we obtained transaction data for approximately 22% of our sales through American Express Travel Related Service, Inc. and approximately 21% of sales through First Data Corporation. We currently have contracts with a significant number of processors, presenters and aggregators of payment card transactions. These processors, presenters and aggregators may choose to terminate or not renew their contracts with us for reasons including, among others, a decision to no longer provide transaction level details to third parties such as us, if they decide to engage in exclusive business relationships with organizations that are competitive with us, or if they determine that we are not in compliance with information security requirements or payment card industry regulations. We have been able to find suitable replacements for processors, presenters and aggregators who have terminated their contracts with us in the past without a material impact on our business. In addition, processors, presenters and aggregators with whom we have contracts may go out of 11 Table of Contents business or otherwise lose the ability to themselves receive transaction-level detail as a result of not being in compliance with information security requirements, payment card industry regulations, or otherwise. In any event, if relationships with processors, presenters and aggregators that in the aggregate provide us with transaction data for a significant amount of our sales terminate, our ability to receive and process a significant amount of transactions could be materially impaired if we are unable to find suitable replacements or convert restaurants to compatible platforms. If we are unable to find suitable replacements or convert restaurants to compatible platforms, there would be a material adverse effect on our ability to pay member rewards and recognize revenues. A security breach that results in a payment card issuer re-issuing a significant number of registered payment cards may result in a decline in qualified transactions. Members register their payment cards with us in order to participate in our programs. If a member’s payment card is replaced for any reason, including because the issuing bank has detected fraudulent use of the payment card or because of a data security breach by a third party in which the member’s payment card number may have been stolen, the member must register the replacement payment card with us in order to continue to participate in our program. We periodically send out email reminders to members who have provided us with email addresses to register all of their payment cards with us, and we may send out reminders to these members if we learn of a significant security breach that results in the replacement of a large number of payment cards. Additionally, we prompt members to update payment card information through messages on our website. However, some members may fail to register their replacement payment cards with us. If a significant number of members fail to register their replacement cards with us, we may see a decline in member activity, which may have a material adverse impact on our sales and member engagement. We are subject to changes to payment card association rules and practices. Our business model depends on our ability to obtain information with respect to payment card transactions made by members at our participating restaurants. Current Payment Card Industry compliance and VISA and MasterCard rules and practices permit the aggregation of data for payment card transactions at our participating restaurants and the comparison of this data with a file containing members’ registered card information. However, there is no assurance that payment card association rules and practices will not change and limit our ability to obtain this information. These rules are set by payment card networks, which may be strongly influenced by member banks or card issuers who may compete with us now or in the future with respect to the services we provide restaurants, and who may attempt to alter payment card association rules and practices to our detriment. If we are unable to comply with these rules and practices, processors, presenters and aggregators of payment card transactions may terminate their relationships with us. If we are unable to obtain this information, we will need to seek alternate ways of determining member qualified transactions, and we cannot assure you that any other method would be possible or cost-effective. If we cannot find alternative ways of determining member qualified transactions, that will have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant number of our active member accounts are obtained from our relationships with airlines and other program partners. We depend on our relationships with airline and other program partners for a significant number of members and a significant portion of our revenue. We are particularly dependent on our relationships with airline partners. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 56.0% of our sales were derived from members enrolled in our programs through airline frequent flyer programs. As of December 31, 2008, we had contracts or relationships with eight major airlines and approximately 1.7 million of our approximately 3.1 million active member accounts were enrolled through airline frequent flyer programs. In addition, member accounts enrolled through three of our program partners, Upromise, Inc., United Air Lines, Inc. and American Airlines Inc., each represented more than 10% of our sales for 2008. 12 Table of Contents If our contracts or relationships with airline and other program partners terminate, we will likely lose those member accounts that are enrolled in our programs through these program partners. Each year a number of these contracts are subject to renewal. We cannot assure you that any of our contracts with our program partners will be renewed or, if renewed, will be renewed on terms as favorable to us as the current terms. If our program partner contracts are terminated or are not renewed, the number of members in our programs could significantly decline. If our program partner contracts are renewed on less favorable terms, for example if our program partner raises the price for us to purchase rewards currency, or if our program partner relationships are otherwise altered in a way unfavorable to us, our costs may increase. In addition, some of our relationships with program partners depend upon the use of bank affinity payment cards that are associated with our program partners. If the relationship between a program partner and its payment card issuer terminates or if our relationship with the partner’s payment card issuer terminates, we may lose access to the member accounts enrolled through that payment card issuer. We have relationships with various organizations for the marketing, support and endorsement of our services and products. For example, we rely on our agreements with banks, payment card issuers, corporations, airline frequent flyer programs, member savings and loyalty programs and other entities across the country to market our services to their existing and future customers. The development and management of these relationships, including keeping our web site content attractive, is a long and difficult process, requiring experienced sales and marketing personnel. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our inability to operate our programs may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A significant amount of our rewards currency is concentrated in one industry group. A significant portion of the rewards currency we provide to members consists of airline miles that we purchase from our airline partners. Although we believe that airline miles are currently considered to be an attractive rewards currency, there is no assurance that airline miles will continue to be viewed favorably by consumers and members. The terms of frequent flyer programs are subject to change at the discretion of the airlines, and changes to these programs may make frequent flyer miles a less attractive rewards currency. For example, if the airlines provide that miles expire more quickly, increase the number of miles required to earn travel rewards, reduce the number of flights or seats available for reward travel or otherwise limit the availability of redemption options, the attractiveness of airline miles will diminish and may result in reduced membership in our programs and in reduced usage of our programs. Furthermore, a sustained economic downturn in the airline industry could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of our business because there is no assurance that we can convert members who choose frequent flyer miles over our other rewards currencies to other forms of rewards currencies should the airlines no longer be able to participate. The impact of an economic downturn of the airline industry on our airline partners or consolidation in the airline industry may result in the diminished attractiveness of airline miles as a currency that we offer to members and, thus, reduce the usage of our programs. Adverse weather may adversely affect the frequency of member dining activity. The restaurant industry is susceptible to adverse weather conditions and severe weather may adversely affect the frequency of member dining activity. Any decline in program usage would hurt our business. We have minimum program partner purchase obligations and other performance requirements. We have agreements with various program partners that obligate us, among other things, to purchase a minimum amount of rewards currency or conduct a minimum level of marketing in a given period. If member activity is not sufficient to fulfill our minimum currency purchase obligation with a program partner, we will be required to purchase additional currency from that program partner that we may not be able to utilize, or we may 13 Table of Contents be required to make a payment to the program partner. Minimum marketing requirements may obligate us to incur marketing expenses that we otherwise would not incur. If we do not meet minimum rewards currency purchase obligations and other performance requirements in the normal course of our business, we will incur expenses that we otherwise would not incur. We depend on our ability to attract and retain active members. We generate revenue when members dine at participating restaurants. Any number of factors could affect the frequency with which members participate in our programs or whether consumers enroll in any of our programs at all. Aside from the current severe financial crisis and the loss of consumer confidence that could affect discretionary spending, these factors include (1) consumer tastes and preferences, (2) the frequency with which consumers dine out, (3) the number of desirable restaurants participating, (4) weather conditions, and (5) the availability of alternative discount programs in the local regions where consumers live and work. Any significant decline in usage or increase in membership cancellations, without a corresponding increase in new member enrollments, could make our programs less desirable to participating or prospective restaurants. Any decline in member usage would cause a decline in revenue and a higher cost of our inventory of dining credits. We offer promotional and bonus rewards to members on a periodic basis. These promotional and bonus rewards are designed to attract, retain and further engage members, and also to collect additional member information such as email addresses or demographic information. These programs are also designed to increase revenues, but the cost of these promotional and bonus rewards may exceed the benefit we receive from any increase in revenue and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, you should not rely on our past performance as an indication of future performance. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business is cash intensive. We typically purchase a portion of future member transactions from participating restaurants in exchange for cash. As of December 31, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents were $9.0 million, and we had $75.7 million of dining credits, net of our allowance for doubtful dining credits accounts. The severe financial crisis and the deteriorating financial condition of large financial institutions has resulted in a severe decline in global credit markets, in higher short-term borrowing costs, and more stringent borrowing terms. Recessionary conditions in the global economy threaten to cause further tightening of the credit markets and more stringent lending standards. In light of these global conditions, and although we have $25.0 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility, we cannot assure you that we will have access to that facility even if we were in compliance with all the conditions in the credit facility agreement. Also, we cannot assure you that we would be in compliance with the credit facility at the time we need to borrow under the revolving credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise cash in the future on acceptable terms or at all. If we raise funds through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the value of our outstanding stock could be reduced. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash to fund our purchase of future member transactions or otherwise provide working capital, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Class action lawsuits may be filed against us. In light of the settlement of the California class action lawsuit, it is possible that there will be class action claims made against us in other states, raising allegations similar to those made by the plaintiffs in the California 14 Table of Contents class action litigation and described in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The cost of defending and/or resolving through settlement any such purported class action litigation in one or several states in which we have entered into a significant number of Marketing Credits Program deals may be substantial and may have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we might be subject to damages and court-ordered restrictions on the conduct of our business as a result of any judgment ultimately entered in any such litigation, which may have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in our programs that affect the rate of rewards received by members could have adverse consequences. We may implement changes to our programs that may have the effect of reducing the amount of rewards provided to some members or requiring some members to take actions to obtain the highest level of rewards. In the past, we have implemented such changes in an effort to encourage member engagement in our programs. If members react to these changes by reducing the frequency of transactions with our participating merchants, our sales could decrease and members could use our dining credits more slowly. In addition, the rate of our new member activation could suffer if potential members perceive our programs as offering lower rewards. An adequately staffed sales force is important to our ability to retain restaurants and grow the number of participating restaurants. Our ability to grow the number of participating restaurants depends, in part, on having an adequately staffed sales force. Members of the sales force leave us for various reasons throughout the year. We must replace the people who leave our sales force with qualified sales personnel in order to maintain an adequately staffed sales force. Although we attempt to keep our sales force adequately staffed despite expected attrition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain an adequately staffed sales force if we experience an unusually high level of attrition. In addition to relying on our sales staff to obtain new participating restaurants, we rely on them to be the primary contact for maintaining our relationships and reinforcing the value of our programs with existing participating restaurants. If our sales force is not adequately staffed, we may not be able to maintain or increase the number of participating restaurants. We must maintain an appropriate balance between the number of members and the number of participating restaurants in each market. A critical success factor for our business is our ability to maintain an appropriate balance of members and member activity to participating restaurants within each geographic market we serve. If we have too many members or too much member activity and too few participating restaurants in a particular geographic market, our member base may become dissatisfied and/or participating restaurants may experience a higher volume of business from members than anticipated. This could result in low program usage, high membership cancellations and participating restaurant attrition. Alternatively, if too many restaurants participate in our programs with too few members, our revenues may decline due to a lower number of member transactions. Managing this balance requires us, among other things, to anticipate trends within a market and the desires of members and participating restaurants. Managing this balance may be difficult where a particular loyalty partner program has a concentration of members in a single geographic market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage this balance effectively in each of our markets. Interruptions to our systems that impair access to our websites and network and processing interruptions or processing errors could damage our reputation and substantially harm our business and operating results. The satisfactory performance of our websites and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and to our ability to attract and retain members and merchants. We depend on the functionality of transaction processing networks and our internal computer systems. Network interruptions and processing errors may result from various causes, including disruptions to telecommunications services or the electricity supply. Such disruptions 15 Table of Contents may be caused by human error. There is also the potential threat of telecommunications and electrical disruptions caused by natural disasters, acts of terrorism or the malicious acts of computer criminals, who may attempt to compromise specific systems or generally propagate malicious software, such as viruses and worms. Any extensive or long-term disruptions affecting transaction processors could cause us to incur substantial additional expense or lost revenues we otherwise should have recognized. Errors or delays in processing transactions could also result in a loss of revenues. In addition, we must invest significant resources to maintain our information technology infrastructure. An unexpected problem with our information technology infrastructure could cause us to incur substantial expenses to ensure that our programs continue to run without disruption. Defects in transaction processing networks or our internal computer systems could result in errors or delays in processing transactions, which could result in an inability to correctly credit rewards to members which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and ability to attract and maintain members. We are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. We are subject to a number of current and pending federal and state laws and regulations governing the internet, privacy, and the use and storage of financial data and personally identifiable information. Changes to existing laws and regulations or the promulgation of new laws and regulations could affect how we operate our programs, increase our operating costs, change our competitive environment or otherwise adversely affect us. Privacy concerns of our program partners, payment card processors and the public may result in increased operating costs or loss of members. Privacy concerns make it more difficult for us to obtain and retain program partners. Our program partners may be subject to public pressure not to divulge information regarding their members to us. If we do not retain a program partner for this reason, we would lose that program partner’s members. Our program partners may also adopt more stringent policies regarding the use and disclosure of financial data than their existing policies and practices. Our operating costs will increase if we are required to implement new systems and processes to comply with changes to our program partners’ privacy policies and practices or to address privacy concerns of our payment card processors and the public. Our security measures may not be successful. We collect and store sensitive data about restaurants. In addition, we maintain a database of cardholder data, including payment card information. We have developed and implemented a number of measures in an effort to keep our member and participating restaurant data secure. We continually work on enhancing and improving our security measures. These measures may be expensive and involve hiring additional personnel or suppliers and consultants. The measures we have taken and may take in the future may not be successful. Our computer systems could be penetrated by hackers and the encryption of our data may not prevent unauthorized use of restaurant and member data. We engage third party service providers from time to time who may have access to restaurant and member data. Our agreements with these third party service providers include confidentiality obligations with respect to restaurant and member data, but we cannot assure you that these contractual provisions will prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of restaurant or member data. The complete or partial failure of our security measures could result in damage to our reputation, the loss of members and participating restaurants, incurring costs related to notification requirements and the filing of claims and lawsuits against us. Unauthorized disclosure or other misuse of restaurant or member data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and protracted and costly 16 Table of Contents litigation. Any significant incidents of loss of cardholder data by us could result in significant fines or other sanctions by Visa, MasterCard, American Express, banks or governmental bodies, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial position or operations. We may also incur costs in connection with remedying a security breach, including potentially significant costs in connection with the possible replacement of payment cards that are compromised by a breach of our security. In addition, a significant breach could result in our being prohibited from processing transactions in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on the use of our registered card platform to operate our programs. We could lose key personnel. Our success depends, in part, on the skills, experience, efforts and policies of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer. We cannot assure you that we will continue to retain such personnel. We face significant competition. We experience competition from a variety of companies and programs that offer services to restaurants that are similar to the services that we provide. Our competitors include companies that offer marketing services and marketing programs to restaurants, or dining discounts to consumers. We also compete with various finance companies to address the capital needs of restaurants. Although we believe that none of our competitors provides the suite of services that we offer and that none of our competitors operates in all of the markets in which we operate, new competitors could enter our business. Certain competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources and may expend considerably larger sums than we do for new product development and marketing. Our revenues and profitability may decline if there is a shift toward the Marketing Services Program. Our revenue from a transaction at a Marketing Credits Program restaurant is higher than the revenue we receive for a transaction of the same amount at a Marketing Services Program restaurant. An increase in the percentage of restaurants that participate in the Marketing Services Program instead of the Marketing Credits Program may cause a decline in our revenues and profitability even if the overall number of participating restaurants remains the same or increases. Impairment to goodwill could result in a charge to earnings. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain intangible assets are determined to have an indefinite useful life and are not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually or when impairment indicators, such as a decline in share price, are present. Assessment of goodwill could result in circumstances where the recorded asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. The impact of such impairment could have a material effect to our results of operations. Samstock, L.L.C. and its affiliates are a large stockholder. As of March 9, 2009, our largest stockholder, Samstock, L.L.C. and its affiliates, beneficially owned in aggregate 6,970,042 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 25% (based on 27,419,297 shares of common stock outstanding at March 9, 2009) of our outstanding common stock. As a result of their ownership, Samstock and its affiliates may be able to substantially influence the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors. Samstock is indirectly owned by certain trusts and the trustee of these trusts is Chai Trust Company, LLC. The current chairman of our board of directors, Donald J. Liebentritt, is the President of Chai Trust Company, LLC. 17 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors may issue our authorized preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with rights and preferences that may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue one or more series of preferred stock with rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock or common stock. Although we do not have any current plans to issue any series or shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future. The future sales of restricted and other shares may cause dilution to each stockholder’s percentage ownership interest and could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of a substantial amount of stock in the public market (such as the shares previously registered by us), or the perception that these sales may occur, could result in lower market prices of our common stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of other securities. As of March 9, 2009, 27,419,297 shares of our common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of March 9, 2009, 571,500 shares of our common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding employee and director stock options; 130,557 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the issuance of outstanding director stock awards that have been deferred; 739,119 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the vesting of employee stock awards and an additional 3,098,824 shares of our common stock were available under our long-term incentive stock plan for future grant. All of these shares have been registered for sale. The issuance and sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock upon the exercise of stock options and the vesting of stock awards, or the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or otherwise, could result in a dilution to each stockholder’s percentage ownership and could adversely affect the market prices of our securities. The price of our common stock could be volatile. The market price of our securities has been volatile and could continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to the factors set forth above and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Such fluctuations, as well as economic conditions generally, may adversely affect the market price of our securities. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our securities regardless of operating performance. Delaware corporate law, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of the Company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval to increase the number of outstanding shares and deter or prevent a takeover attempt; • prohibit common stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all common stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our common stockholders; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise enable less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; 18 Table of Contents • limit the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and the terms of our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Specifically, Section 203 and our certificate of incorporation prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder unless specific conditions are met. Also, our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan includes provisions that allow us to grant options, stock appreciation rights and other stock-based awards that will become vested immediately upon a change of control of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 