Item 1A. Risk Factors As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“1995 Reform Act”), we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operation and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. 7 Table of Contents Safe Harbor Statement Certain statements contained herein constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the 1995 Reform Act. TeamStaff desires to avail itself of certain “safe harbor” provisions of the 1995 Reform Act and is therefore including this special note to enable it to do so. Forward-looking statements included in this Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended September 30, 2009 involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause TeamStaff’s actual results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements to differ from the future results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such future results are based upon management’s best estimates based upon current conditions and the most recent results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risks identified below. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our shareholders and potential shareholders. There may be events in the future, however, that we are not accurately able to predict or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed below, as well as any cautionary language in this filing, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in the risk factors below, elsewhere in this filing and other events that we have not predicted or assessed could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows or business. In such case, the price of our securities could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry TeamStaff GS’s revenue are derived from U.S. Government customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues in our TeamStaff GS subsidiary from the U.S. Government as a prime contractor or a subcontractor. Revenues from the U.S. Government represented approximately 98% of the total revenues of TeamStaff GS for each of the 2009 and 2008 fiscal years. Further, in fiscal 2009, through its FSS contracts primarily with the DVA, TeamStaff GS had independent task-orders with four DVA-related facilities that comprised 31%, 23%, 12% and 11% of the Company’s overall consolidated revenue, or 77% in the aggregate. Accordingly, our consolidated revenues could be materially adversely impacted by a reduction in the overall level of U.S. Government spending and by changes in its spending priorities from year to year. We are particularly dependent on the continuation of our relationship with DVA. As discussed above, in January 2008 Teamstaff GS was issued purchase orders for the DVA’s consolidated pharmacy distribution centers from the DVA national contracting office. Although the current task orders expired on December 31, 2009, a six month continuation of services extension for all six locations serviced by TeamStaff GS was awarded on December 14, 2009. We anticipate that the DVA may release new requests for proposals related to staffing services at its pharmacy distribution facilities in early 2010. In such an event, the Company intends to submit a proposal to address any such solicitation. Although the Company believes it is well positioned to continue its relationship with the DVA, no assurances can be given that the DVA would further extend our current service order or that the Company will successfully bid for new contract solicitations which may by published by DVA or that even if the Company is granted subsequent orders, that such orders would be of a scope comparable to the services that the Company has provided to date. If the DVA does not further extend the Company’s current service contract or the Company is not successful in its efforts to obtain contract awards pursuant to new solicitations, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, even if the overall level of U.S. Government spending does increase or remains stable, the budgets of the government agencies with whom we do business may be decreased or our projects with them may not be sufficiently funded, particularly because Congress usually appropriates funds for a given project on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. In the event the budgets of the U.S. Government entities with which we do business, particularly the DVA, are decreased or underfunded, our consolidated revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining U.S. Government contracts remains a highly competitive process and this has led to a greater portion of our revenue base being associated with contracts providing for a lower amount of reimbursable cost than we have traditionally been able to recover. We are heavily dependent upon the U.S. Government as the primary customer to our TeamStaff GS subsidiary. In light of the recent disposition of our TeamStaff Rx business, our dependence on the results of operations of TeamStaff is significantly increased as compared to prior periods. Our future success and revenue growth will depend in part upon our ability to continue to expand our customer base. 8 Table of Contents We face risks relating to U.S. Government contracts because these contracts may be terminated at will. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. However, these programs are normally funded on an annual basis. The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts at its convenience. Due to our increasing dependence on these relationships, the modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our contract costs are subject to audits and investigations by U.S. Government agencies and unfavorable government audit results could force us to refund previously recognized revenues and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. From time to time, U.S. Government representatives may audit our performance on and costs incurred on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. Further, federal agencies can also audit and review our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs. In the event that it is determined that our payments from Government agencies was in excess of contractual costs, we could be assessed for these excess payments. We would expect that we would normally negotiate with U.S. Government representatives before settling on final adjustments to our contract costs. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of these audits. Further, an audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies we have acquired or may acquire, or subcontractors we have hired or may hire, could force us to refund previously recognized revenues. Similarly, we are from time to time subject to inquiries and investigations of our business practices by the U.S. Government due to our participation in government contracts. We cannot assure you that any such inquiry or investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally or with any specific agency, if our reputation or relationships with government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise were to cease doing business with us or were to significantly decrease the amount of business it does with us, our revenue, cash flows and operating results would be materially adversely affected. The U.S. Government contract bid process is complex and sometimes lengthy, subject to protest and implementation delays. The U.S. Government contract bid process is complex and sometimes lengthy. Once a bid is won and a contract awarded, there still is the possibility of a bid protest or numerous delays in implementation. There can be no assurance that such protest process or implementation delays will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the future. Our failure to comply with complex federal procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business, incur additional costs, and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and affect how we do business with our federal agency clients, and may impose added costs on our business. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. The government may in the future reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results. 9 Table of Contents Our government services business is dependent upon maintaining our reputation, our relationships and our performance. The reputation and relationships that we have established and currently maintain with government personnel and agencies are important to maintaining existing business and identifying new business. If our reputation or relationships were damaged, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or expand our business relationship with U.S. Government entities. In addition, if our performance does not meet agency expectations, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. Competition is intense in the government services business. There is often intense competition to win federal agency contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business or win competitions to maintain existing business, our revenue growth and margins may decline. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do, larger client bases, and greater brand recognition. Our larger competitors also may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide. Loss of our General Services Administration (“GSA”) schedule contracts or other contracting vehicles could impair our ability to win new business. GSA schedule contracts constitute a significant percentage of revenue from our federal agency clients. Due to our dependence on providing staffing services to U.S. government entities, if we were to lose one or more of these contracts or other contracting vehicles, we could lose a significant revenue source and our operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. These contracts typically have an initial term with multiple options that may be exercised by our government agency clients to extend the contract for successive periods of one or more years. We can provide no assurance that our clients will exercise these options. Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for government clients, which could cause us to lose business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, a government agency client may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. Like all government contractors, we are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by our employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and precautions to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling such risks or losses, which could adversely affect our business. Security breaches in sensitive government information systems could result in loss of our clients and cause negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop, install, and maintain involve managing and protecting information used in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of our systems could materially reduce our revenue. 10 Table of Contents The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis for the federal agencies we support or changes in the budget priorities of such agencies could delay or reduce spending and cause us to lose revenue. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities and is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When government agencies must operate under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in any new initiatives being delayed, and potentially cancelled. Changes in federal government fiscal or spending policies could adversely affect our government agency business. The occurrence of either scenario would adversely impact our results of operations. We are dependent upon certain of our management personnel. Our success to date has resulted in part from the significant contributions of our executive officers. Our executive officers are expected to continue to make important contributions to our success. The loss of our key personnel could materially affect our operations. Currently, our CEO, CFO and the President of TeamStaff GS are under employment contracts. The Company does not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our key personnel. Our current President and Chief Executive Officer intends to resign from such positions at the end of January 2010. If we do not employ a new President and Chief Executive Officer by the time of his departure, we will not have an executive officer to perform important managerial and oversight functions. As previously disclosed, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Rick J. Filippelli, has informed the Board of his intent to resign from such positions effective at the end of January 2010. Our Board has established a search committee to identify candidates for Chief Executive Officer and has developed a short-list of candidates from which it anticipates being able to select the new President and Chief Executive Officer. However, no assurances can be given that we will be able select and employ our new President and Chief Executive Officer prior to the time that Mr. Filippelli intends to depart our company. In such an event, we would need to appoint a person to perform such responsibilities on an interim basis. If we are not able to employ a new President and Chief Executive Officer by the time of Mr. Filippelli’s departure, we will not have an executive officer to perform the important managerial and oversight functions customarily performed by a Company’s chief executive. If this condition persists for an extended period, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Demand for staffing services could be significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and unemployment or by factors beyond our control (i.e.; hurricanes, weather conditions, acts of war, etc.) in the United States. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected by various economic factors. Unfavorable economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to maintain and continue our revenue growth. In an economic recession or under other adverse economic conditions, customers and vendors may be more likely to be unable to meet contractual terms or their payment obligations. When economic activity increases, contract employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. However, as economic activity slows, many companies, including our hospital and healthcare facility clients, reduce their use of contract employees before laying off full-time employees. In addition, we experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. A decline in economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business. The current recession and the continuation or intensification of any continued volatility in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the availability of credit to our customers and businesses generally and could lead to a further weakening of the U.S. and global economies. To the extent that disruption in the financial markets continues and/or intensifies, it has the potential to materially affect our customers’ ability to tap into debt and/or equity markets to continue their ongoing operations, have access to cash and/or pay their debts as they come due, all of which could reasonably be expected to have an adverse impact on the number of open positions for healthcare staff they request, as well as their ability to pay for our staffing services. Continued economic weakness is likely to adversely impact our results of operations. The disruptions that the financial markets are currently undergoing have led to unprecedented governmental intervention on an emergency basis. The results of these actions have been unclear, resulting in confusion and uncertainty which in itself has been materially detrimental to the efficient functioning of the markets. It is impossible to predict what, if any, additional interim or permanent governmental restrictions may be imposed on the markets and/or the effect of such restrictions on us, our customers and the operations of corporate entities generally in the United States. 11 Table of Contents There are significant expectations that there may be legislative changes in the next few years that fundamentally impact the healthcare industry. We cannot assess the impact that any such future changes may have on our customers and, as a result, on our business. We also cannot assess how, and whether, the recently enacted fiscal stimulus bill will impact our business and our industry. Our business may be adversely affected due to economic conditions in specific geographic markets. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from Illinois, Kansas, South Carolina and Tennessee with respect to the government staffing services provided by TeamStaff GS. While we believe that our market diversification will eventually lessen this risk in addition to generating significant revenue growth, we may not be able to duplicate in other markets the revenue growth and operating results experienced in the listed markets. Accordingly, we have a specific sensitivity to adverse economic conditions in these geographic markets. Our financial condition may be affected by increases in health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation rates. Health insurance premiums, state unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation rates are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. If we experience a large increase in claim activity, our health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes or workers’ compensation rates could increase. Although we employ internal and external risk management procedures in an attempt to manage our claims incidence and estimate claims expenses and structure our benefit contracts to provide as much cost stability as possible, we may not be able to prevent increases in claim activity, accurately estimate our claims expenses or pass the cost of such increases on to our clients. Since our ability to incorporate such increases into our fees to our clients is constrained by contractual arrangements with our clients, a delay could occur before such increases could be reflected in our fees, which may reduce our profit margin. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our financial condition may be affected by risks associated with our health and workers’ compensation claims experience. Although we utilize only fully insured plans of health care and incur no direct risk of loss under those plans, the premiums that we pay for health care and workers’ compensation insurance are directly affected by our claims experience, including the claims experience of our off-site contract employees. If this experience is unfavorable, the premiums that are payable by us will increase or coverage may become unavailable altogether. We may not be able to pass such increases onto our clients, which may reduce our profit margins. Increasing health care and workers’ compensation premiums could also place us at a disadvantage in competing for new clients. In addition, periodic reassessments of workers’ compensation claims of prior periods (when TeamStaff was covered under large deductible-type plans) may require an increase or decrease to our reserves, and therefore may also affect our present and future financial condition. If unfavorable government regulations regarding contract and permanent staffing are implemented, or if current regulations are changed, our business could be harmed. Because many of the laws related to the employment relationship were enacted prior to the development of alternative staffing businesses, many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers. Numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax, insurance and employment matters affect our operations. Many states require licensure or registration of entities providing contract health care or nursing services as well as those offering permanent placement services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with any such regulations, which may be imposed upon us now or in the future, and our inability to comply with any such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations which are not currently applicable to us will not be interpreted more broadly in the future to apply to our existing activities or that new laws and regulations will not be enacted with respect to our activities. Either of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain all of the licenses and certifications that we need to operate. State authorities regulate the temporary medical staffing and permanent placement industry and some states require us to satisfy operating, licensing or certification requirements. If we are unable to obtain or maintain all of the required licenses or certifications that we need, we could experience material adverse effects to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Health care reform could impose unexpected burdens on our ability to conduct our business. Regulation in the health care field continues to evolve, and we cannot predict what additional government regulations affecting our business may be adopted in the future. Changes in any of these laws or regulations may adversely impact the demand for our services, require that we develop new or modified services to meet the demands of the marketplace, or require that we modify the fees that we charge for our services. Any such changes may adversely impact our competitiveness and financial condition. We may be held liable for the actions of our contract employees and therefore incur unforeseen liabilities. A number of legal issues with respect to the employment arrangements among contract staffing firms, their clients and contract employees remain unresolved. These issues include who bears the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. As a result of our employer status, we may be liable for violations of these or other laws despite contractual protections. While our client service agreements generally provide that the client is to indemnify us for any liability caused by the client’s failure to comply with its contractual obligations and the requirements imposed by law, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and may then be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, contract employees may be deemed to be our agents, which could make us liable for their actions. Our staffing of healthcare professionals exposes us to potential malpractice liability. Through our subsidiaries, we engage in the business of providing contract healthcare professionals. The placement of such employees increases our potential liability for negligence and professional malpractice of those employees. Although we are covered by professional malpractice liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $5.0 million with a $2.0 million per occurrence limit, which we deem reasonable under the circumstances, not all of the potential liability we face may be fully covered by insurance. Any significant adverse claim, which is not covered by insurance, may have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be fully covered by the insurance we procure. Although we carry liability insurance, the insurance we purchase may not be sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints. In addition, sufficient insurance may not be available to us in the future on satisfactory terms or at all. Additionally, the ever-increasing costs of insurance will impact our profitability to the extent that we cannot offset these increases into our costs of services. Our current workers’ compensation plan is a partially self-funded workers’ compensation insurance program. The Company pays a base premium plus actual losses incurred, not to exceed certain stop-loss limits. The Company is insured for losses above these limits, both per occurrence and in the aggregate. If the insurance we carry is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. If we were not able to renew all of the insurance plans that cover contract healthcare employees, our business would be adversely impacted. The maintenance of health and workers’ compensation insurance plans that cover our contract healthcare employees is a significant part of our business. If we were unable to secure renewal of contracts for such plans or the renewal of such plans with favorable rates and with competitive benefits, our business would be adversely affected. The current health and workers’ compensation contracts are provided by vendors with whom we have an established relationship and on terms that we believe to be favorable. While we believe that renewal contracts could be secured on competitive terms without causing significant disruption to our business, there can be no assurance in this regard. 13 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market and our success depends on our ability to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining clients and demonstrating the value of our services. We operate in a highly competitive market. Our primary competitors in government staffing solutions include Top Echelon Management, Inc., Total Management, Inc., Medical Staffing Network Holdings, Inc., Kforce, Inc. and Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc. In addition, other large staffing companies that do not currently provide government staffing solutions may seek to enter into this space. These companies may have greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources than us. Since we compete with numerous entities that have greater resources than us, our business will suffer if we are not competitive with respect to each of the services we provide. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities which are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. We believe that the primary competitive factors in obtaining and retaining government healthcare facility clients are identifying qualified healthcare professionals for specific job requirements, providing qualified employees in a timely manner, pricing services competitively and effectively monitoring the job performance of our contract professionals. Competition for government healthcare facility clients and contract and permanent healthcare professionals may increase in the future related to these factors or due to a shortage of qualified healthcare professionals in the marketplace and, as a result, we may not be able to remain competitive. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenue or clients and our margins could decline, which could seriously harm our operating results and cause the price of our stock to decline. With respect to staffing for Government entities, we also compete with the U.S. Government’s own in-house capabilities and ability to hire permanent staff. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to attract qualified nurses and allied health professionals for our healthcare staffing business, or other contract personnel for our staffing business, our business may be negatively affected. We rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain nurses and allied health professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary in order to provide staffing solutions for hospital and healthcare facility assignments. We compete for healthcare professionals with other healthcare staffing companies and with hospitals and healthcare facilities. We must continually evaluate and expand our healthcare professional network to keep pace with our hospital and healthcare facility clients’ needs. Currently, there is a shortage of qualified nurses in most areas of the United States and competition for nursing personnel is increasing. We may be unable to continue to increase the number of healthcare professionals that we recruit, thereby decreasing the potential for growing our business. Our ability to attract and retain healthcare professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide healthcare professionals with assignments that they view as attractive and to provide them with competitive benefits and wages. The cost of attracting healthcare professionals and providing them with attractive benefits packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain healthcare professionals, the quality of our services to our hospital and healthcare facility clients may decline and, as a result, we could lose clients. Similarly, in order to provide contract logistic, administrative or other employees to our clients, we are dependent on securing a pool of qualified persons willing to accept assignments for our clients. Our business is materially dependent upon the continued availability of such qualified personnel. Our inability to secure qualified personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations identify and match staffing resources and client assignments. The system also tracks regulatory credentialing expirations and other relevant client and healthcare information. They also perform payroll, billing and accounts receivable functions. Our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, maintain billing and staffing records reliably, pay our staff in a timely fashion and bill for services efficiently. 14 Table of Contents Potential tax liabilities may adversely affect our financial condition. From time to time, we have received several notices from the Internal Revenue Service regarding potential underpayment, overpayment or non-payment of payroll-related taxes. We have disputed these notices, and strongly believe that such notices were the result of errors made in reporting taxes paid and the resulting misapplication of taxes paid, in large part due to our operation of approximately seventeen different subsidiaries predominantly from our former Professional Employer Organization discontinued operations. The IRS has made claims that, if we were required to pay in full, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. We are contesting these notices because we believe all material payroll-related taxes have been paid. We further believe that once all tax payments are applied appropriately, all material penalties and interest should be abated. We have retained the services of Ernst & Young, LLP to assist us in this regard. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. In settling various years for specific subsidiaries with the IRS, the Company has received refunds for those specific periods; however, as the process of settling and concluding on other periods and subsidiaries is not yet completed and the potential exists for related penalties and interest, the remaining liability ($1.1 million at September 30, 2009) has been recorded in accounts payable in the accompanying balance sheets. In fiscal 2009, the Company paid $1.1 million, related to this matter. Based on an assessment of periods settled and the status of open periods under review by the IRS, management reduced its estimated liability by $0.7 million in 2008. Such amount, accounted for as a change in estimate, is included as a component of other income (expense) in the accompanying 2008 statement of operations. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these remaining payroll tax matters will not have a significant adverse effect on its financial position or future results of operations. We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet. Future write-offs of goodwill may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. We have previously obtained growth through acquisitions of other companies and businesses. Under existing accounting standards, we are required to periodically review goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for possible impairment. In the event that we are required to write down the value of any assets under these pronouncements, it may materially and adversely affect our earnings. See the more detailed discussion appearing as part of our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 herein. As of September 30, 2009, we had $8.6 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. At such date, goodwill represented approximately 32% of our total assets. As permitted, we do not amortize goodwill or intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite useful life. Impairment, for goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life, exists if the net book value of the goodwill or intangible asset equals or exceeds its fair value. As required, we performed our annual review for impairment during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 by performing a fair value analysis of each reporting unit. The fair value analysis was completed with the assistance of outside valuation professionals. The carrying values of the intangibles associated with our continuing TeamStaff GS business were supported by the results of this valuation, However, as a result of the decision to divest TeamStaff Rx, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $2.3 million to reduce the carrying value of long lived assets (tradename — $0.7 million and goodwill — $1.6 million) to estimated fair value. The estimated fair value was derived from the terms of the sale of these assets to Advantage RN. The impairment charge is included in the 2009 loss from discontinued operations. Contributing to this 2009 impairment charge was the reduction in our projected growth rates (compared to prior projections), management’s current assessment of the healthcare staffing industry and the significant decrease in the enterprise value of the unit. Additional impairment analyses may be performed to determine if indicators of impairment are present, and if so, such amount will be determined and the associated charge will be recorded to the consolidated statement of operations. Although it does not affect our cash flow, an impairment charge to earnings has the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses, as the case may be. If we are required to record additional impairment charges, our stock price could also be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Revolving Credit Line Our credit facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and if we are unable to make the scheduled principal and interest payments on the facility or maintain compliance with other debt covenants, we may default on the facility. TeamStaff completed a $3.0 million revolving credit facility by Sovereign Business Capital (formerly known as Business Alliance Capital Company), a division of Sovereign Bank, effective on March 28, 2008. Revolving credit advances bear interest at the per annum rate of Prime Rate plus 25 basis points, but not less than 5.5% per annum. The facility has a three-year life and contains term and line of credit borrowing options. In connection with the disposition of the assets of our TeamStaff Rx subsidiary, we were required to obtain the consent of the lender under our Loan Agreement, Sovereign. On January 12, 2010 we were granted such consent. As a condition to such consent, however, Sovereign reduced the maximum amount available under such loan facility from $3.0 million to $2.0 million. As of September 30, 2009, there was no debt outstanding under the Loan Agreement and unused availability (as defined) totaled $1.7 million, net of required collateral reserves per the Loan Agreement for certain payroll and tax liabilities. As of September 30, 2009, we had working capital of $0.9 million. Accordingly, management does not believe that the reduction in the availability under the Loan Agreement will have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. The facility is subject to certain restrictive covenants, including minimum debt service coverage ratio and restrictions on the Company’s ability to, among other things, dispose of certain assets, engage in certain transactions, incur indebtedness and pay dividends. In addition, the line of credit is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. Due to these covenants and restrictions, our operations may be affected in several ways. For instance, a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness and as referenced above, our ability to enter into certain transactions, incur additional indebtedness and dispose of certain assets may be limited. The facility is subject to acceleration upon non-payment or various other standard default clauses. Material increases in the Prime rate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, the status of the revolving credit facility, as well as interest costs. Failure to pay revolving credit advances or any failure to comply with applicable restrictive covenants would have a material adverse effect on our business in that we could be required to repay the outstanding balance in advance or sell assets in order to repay the outstanding amount. In addition, the Lender could seize the collateral securing the loan facility. Further, availability under the line is directly related to the successful assignment of certain accounts receivable. Certain government accounts of TeamStaff GS are required to execute “Acknowledgements of Assignment.” There can be no assurance that every TeamStaff GS government account will execute the documentation to effectuate the assignment and secure availability. The failure of government third parties to sign the required documentation could result in a decrease in availability under the line of credit, which would materially affect the Company’s business. On January 11, 2010, we determined that as of September 30, 2009, we were not in compliance with the debt service coverage ratio covenant of the Loan Agreement. The Loan Agreement provides that following an event of default, Sovereign may, among other remedies provided for in the Loan Agreement, accelerate the amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement, take such actions as it deems necessary to protect its security interest in the collateral, and terminate the Loan Agreement. In connection with its consent to the sale of the TeamStaff Rx assets and loan modification, on January 12, 2010, Sovereign waived such non-compliance for the period ending September 30, 2009. The Lender, however, reserved its rights under the Loan Agreement with respect to any future non-compliance with the debt service coverage ratio for any future period or any other provision of the Loan Agreement. If covenant violations were to occur in the future and the lender does not agree to modify the covenants or waive such violations, it could result in the acceleration of the maturity date of all of our debt under this loan facility. In both of these circumstances it could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Risks Relating To Our Stock There is limited trading volume in our common stock and you may find it difficult to dispose of your shares of common stock; it is possible that our stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “TSTF”. On December 31, 2009, the closing bid price of our common stock was $0.80. If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock will be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as a $1.00 minimum closing bid price. 16 Table of Contents On December 17, 2009, we received a staff deficiency letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying the Company that for the past 30 consecutive business days, the closing bid price per share of its common stock was below the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). As a result, the Company was notified by Nasdaq that it is not in compliance with the Listing Rule. Nasdaq has provided the Company with 180 calendar days, or until June 15, 2010, to regain compliance. To regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, the closing bid price of our common stock must remain above $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days during the 180-day compliance period. If this occurs, Nasdaq will provide us with written notification of compliance. However, if we do not regain compliance during this grace period, our common stock will be subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market. The 180-day compliance period relates exclusively to our bid price deficiency. We may be delisted during the 180-day period for failure to maintain compliance with any other listing requirement which occurs during this period. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading will reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market and the trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Changes in our business, the volatility of the market value of our comparable companies and the impact of litigation and disputes may increase the volatility of the stock price. The price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations in the future. This volatility may result from the impact on our stock price of: • the impact of acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that we may undertake; • the impact of the volatility of the market value of comparable public companies that are considered in our valuation process and any publicly traded securities we may own; • the impact of litigation, government investigations or other customer disputes on our operating performance and future prospects; and • the mix of our commercial and international business as a proportion of our overall business and the volatility associated with companies in those business areas Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you cannot expect dividend income from an investment in our common stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Future potential lenders may prohibit us from paying dividends without its prior consent. Therefore, holders of our common stock may not receive any dividends on their investment in us. Earnings, if any, will be retained and used to finance the development and expansion of our business. 17 Table of Contents We may issue preferred stock with rights senior to our common stock, which may adversely impact the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which would adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for our Company and thereby prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, in order to discourage or delay a change of control of our Company, we may do so in the future. In addition, we may determine to issue preferred stock in connection with capital raising efforts and the terms of the stock so issued could have special voting rights or rights related to the composition of our Board. Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Incorporation make a change in control of our Company more difficult. The provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Among other things, these provisions: • require certain supermajority votes; • establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholders’ proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings; and • divide the board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, the board of directors has authority to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares without further shareholder approval. Such preferred shares could have dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights and privileges that are superior or senior to our common stock. Issuance of preferred shares could result in the dilution of the voting power of our common stock, adversely affecting holders of our common stock in the event of its liquidation or delay, and defer or prevent a change in control. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. In addition, the New Jersey Business Corporation Act contains provisions that, under certain conditions, prohibit business combinations with 10% shareholders and any New Jersey corporation for a period of five years from the time of acquisition of shares by the 10% shareholder. The New Jersey Business Corporation Act also contains provisions that restrict certain business combinations and other transactions between a New Jersey corporation and 10% shareholders. You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements. The information contained in this report or in documents that we incorporate by reference or in statements made by our management includes some forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A number of factors, including but not limited to those outlined in the Risk Factors, could cause our actual results, performance, achievements, or industry results to be very different from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-looking statements depend upon assumptions, estimates and dates that may not be correct or precise and involve known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Accordingly, a forward-looking statement in this report is not a prediction of future events or circumstances and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Given these uncertainties and risks, you are warned not to rely on the forward-looking statements. A forward-looking statement is usually identified by our use of certain terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “pro forma,” “anticipates” or “intends,” or by discussions of strategies or intentions. We are not undertaking any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 18 Table of Contents 