RISK FACTORS As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (‘‘1995 Reform Act’’), we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operation and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations and 6 Table of Contents financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Safe Harbor Statement Certain statements contained herein constitute ‘‘forward-looking statements’’ within the meaning of the 1995 Reform Act. TeamStaff desires to avail itself of certain ‘‘safe harbor’’ provisions of the 1995 Reform Act and is therefore including this special note to enable it to do so. Forward-looking statements included in this Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause TeamStaff’s actual results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements to differ from the future results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such future results are based upon management’s best estimates based upon current conditions and the most recent results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risks identified below. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our shareholders and potential shareholders. There may be events in the future, however, that we are not accurately able to predict or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed below, as well as any cautionary language in this filing, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in the risk factors below, elsewhere in this filing and other events that we have not predicted or assessed could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows or business. In such case, the price of our securities could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry If we fail to execute our acquisitions or investments, our business could suffer. We have supplemented our internal growth through acquisitions and may do so in the future through acquisitions, investments or joint ventures. We evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and joint ventures on an ongoing basis. Our acquisitions and investments pose many risks, including: • We may not be able to compete successfully for available acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions or investments or accurately estimate their financial effect on our business; • Future acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may require us to issue additional common stock, spend significant cash amounts or decrease our operating income; • We may have trouble integrating the acquired business and retaining its personnel; • Acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities; and • If our acquisitions or investments fail, our business could be harmed. We may acquire additional companies, which may result in adverse effects on our earnings. We may at times become involved in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. Any acquisition that we may consummate may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and earnings and may be dilutive to our earnings. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or obtain additional capital through the sale of debt or equity to finance an acquisition, our shareholders may experience dilution in their equity. We have previously obtained growth through acquisitions of other companies and 7 Table of Contents businesses. Under Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No.141, Business Combinations (SFAS No.141) and No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) implemented in June 2001, we are required to periodically review goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for possible impairment. In the event that we are required to write down the value of any assets under these pronouncements, it may materially and adversely affect our earnings. See the more detailed discussion appearing as part of our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 herein. Our management may be unable to effectively integrate acquisitions and to manage our growth, and we may be unable to fully realize any anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. Our business strategy includes growth through both acquisitions and internal development. We are subject to various risks associated with our growth strategy, including the risk that we will be unable to identify and recruit suitable acquisition candidates in the future or to integrate and manage the acquired companies. Acquired companies’ histories, geographical locations, business models and business cultures can be different from our own in many respects. Our directors and senior management may face significant challenges in their efforts to integrate our businesses and the business of the acquired companies or assets, and to effectively manage our continued growth. There can be no assurance that our efforts to integrate the operations of any acquired assets or companies acquired in the future will be successful, that we can manage our growth or that the anticipated benefits of these proposed acquisitions will be fully realized. The dedication of manage ment resources to these efforts may detract attention from our day-to-day business. There can be no assurance that there will not be substantial costs associated with these activities or of the success of our integration efforts, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A substantial percentage of RS Staffing Services’ revenue is from U.S. Government customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues in our RS Staffing Services subsidiary from the U.S. Government as a prime contractor or a subcontractor. Revenues from the U.S. Government represented approximately 95% of the total revenues of RS Staffing Services in fiscal year 2007, 92% in fiscal year 2006 and 94% in fiscal year 2005. Our revenues could be adversely impacted by a reduction in the overall level of U.S. Government spending and by changes in its spending priorities from year to year. Furthermore, even if the overall level of U.S. Government spending does increase or remains stable, the budgets of the government agencies with whom we do business may be decreased or our projects with them may not be sufficiently funded, particularly because Congress usually appropriates funds for a given project on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. In addition, obtaining U.S. Government contracts remains a highly competitive process and this has led to a greater portion of our revenue base being associated with contracts providing for a lower amount of reimbursable cost than we have traditionally been able to recover. We are heavily dependent upon the U.S. Government as the primary customer to our RS Staffing Services subsidiary. Our future success and revenue growth will depend in part upon our ability to continue to expand our customer base. We face risks relating to U.S. Government contracts because these contracts may be terminated at will. The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. However, these programs are normally funded on an annual basis. The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts at its convenience. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to potential U.S. Government inquiries and investigations. We are from time to time subject to certain U.S. Government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. We cannot assure you that any such inquiry or investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Our contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. Government agencies. From time to time, U.S. Government representatives may audit costs incurred on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. These audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs. In the event that it is determined that our payments from Government agencies was in excess of contractual costs, we could be assessed for these excess payments. We would expect that we would normally negotiate with U.S. Government representatives before settling on final adjustments to our contract costs. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of these audits. The U.S. Government contract bid process is complex and sometimes lengthy, subject to protest and implementation delays. The U.S. Government contract bid process is complex and sometimes lengthy. Once a bid is won and a contract awarded, there still is the possibility of a bid protest or numerous delays in implementation. There can be no assurance that such protest process or implementation delays will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the future. We are dependent upon certain of our management personnel. Our success to date has resulted in part from the significant contributions of our executive officers. Our executive officers are expected to continue to make important contributions to our success. The loss of our key personnel could materially affect our operations. Other than with our CEO, we generally do not have long-term employment contracts with our key personnel, nor do we maintain ‘‘key person’’ life insurance policies on any of our key personnel. Our medical staffing business may be adversely affected if there is a renewal of the past economic downturn in the healthcare industry. Our medical staffing business is concentrated entirely in the healthcare industry. The economic downturn in the last four years caused a reduction in our clients’ utilization of our services. Any continued, concentrated or renewed economic weakness generally, or in the healthcare industry specifically, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions could harm our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected by various economic factors. Unfavorable economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to maintain and continue our revenue growth. In an economic recession or under other adverse economic conditions, customers and vendors may be more likely to be unable to meet contractual terms or their payment obligations. A decline in economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business may be adversely affected due to economic conditions in specific geographic markets. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from California, Florida, Georgia and Tennessee with respect to allied healthcare and nurse staffing with respect to TeamStaff Rx, and Illinois, Kansas, South Carolina and Tennessee with respect to RS Staffing Services. While we believe that our market diversification will eventually lessen this risk in addition to generating significant revenue growth, we may not be able to duplicate in other markets the revenue growth and operating results experienced in the listed markets. Our financial condition may be affected by increases in health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation rates. Health insurance premiums, state unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation rates are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. If we experience a large increase in claim activity, our health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes or workers’ compensation rates could increase. Although we employ internal and external risk management procedures in an attempt to manage our claims incidence and estimate claims expenses 9 Table of Contents and structure our benefit contracts to provides as much cost stability as possible, we may not be able to prevent increases in claim activity, accurately estimate our claims expenses or pass the cost of such increases on to our clients. Since our ability to incorporate such increases into our fees to our clients is constrained by contractual arrangements with our clients, a delay could occur before such increases could be reflected in our fees, which may reduce our profit margin. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our financial condition may be affected by risks associated with our health and workers’ compensation claims experience. Although we utilize only fully insured plans of health care and incur no direct risk of loss under those plans, the premiums that we pay for health care and workers’ compensation insurance are directly affected by our claims experience, including the claims experience of our off-site temporary employees. If this experience is unfavorable, the premiums that are payable by us will increase or coverage may become unavailable altogether. We may not be able to pass such increases onto our clients, which may reduce our profit margins. Increasing health care and workers’ compensation premiums could also place us at a disadvantage in competing for new clients. In addition, periodic reassessments of workers’ compensation claims of prior periods (when TeamStaff was covered under large deductible-type plans) may require an increase or decrease to our reserves, and therefore may also affect our present and future financial condition. If unfavorable government regulations regarding temporary and permanent staffing are implemented, or if current regulations are changed, our business could be harmed. Because many of the laws related to the employment relationship were enacted prior to the development of alternative staffing businesses, many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers. Numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax, insurance and employment matters affect our operations. Many states require licensure or registration of entities providing temporary health care or nursing services as well as those offering permanent placement services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with any such regulations, which may be imposed upon us now or in the future, and our inability to comply with any such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations which are not currently applicable to us will not be interpreted more broadly in the future to apply to our existing activities or that new laws and regulations will not be enacted with respect to our activities. Either of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may not be able to obtain all of the licenses and certifications that we need to operate. State authorities extensively regulate the temporary medical staffing and permanent placement industry and some states require us to satisfy operating, licensing or certification requirements. If we are unable to obtain or maintain all of the required licenses or certifications that we need, we could experience material adverse effects to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Health care reform could impose unexpected burdens on our ability to conduct our business. Regulation in the health care field continues to evolve, and we cannot predict what additional government regulations affecting our business may be adopted in the future. Changes in any of these laws or regulations may adversely impact the demand for our services, require that we develop new or modified services to meet the demands of the marketplace, or require that we modify the fees that we charge for our services. Any such changes may adversely impact our competitiveness and financial condition. We bear the risk of nonpayment from our clients and the possible effects of bankruptcy filings by clients. To the extent that any particular client experiences financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations as they become due, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely 10 Table of Contents affected. For work performed prior to the termination of a client agreement, we may be obligated, as an employer, to pay the gross salaries and wages of our temporary medical employees and the related employment taxes and workers’ compensation costs, whether or not our client pays us on a timely basis, or at all. A significant increase in our uncollected account receivables may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. We may be held liable for the actions of our temporary employees and therefore incur unforeseen liabilities. A number of legal issues with respect to the employment arrangements among temporary staffing firms, their clients and temporary employees remain unresolved. These issues include who bears the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. As a result of our employer status, we may be liable for violations of these or other laws despite contractual protections. While our client service agreements generally provide that the client is to indemnify us for any liability caused by the client’s failure to comply with its contractual obligations and the requirements imposed by law, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and may then be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, temporary employees may be deemed to be our agents, which could make us liable for their actions. Our staffing of healthcare professionals exposes us to potential malpractice liability. Through our TeamStaff Rx and RS Staffing Services subsidiaries, we engage in the business of providing temporary healthcare professionals. The placement of such employees increases our potential liability for negligence and professional malpractice of those employees. Although we are covered by professional malpractice liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $5,000,000 with a $2,000,000 per occurrence limit, which we deem reasonable under the circumstances, not all of the potential liability we face may be fully covered by insurance. Any significant adverse claim, which is not covered by insurance, may have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be fully covered by the insurance we procure. Although we carry liability insurance, the insurance we purchase may not be sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints. In addition, sufficient insurance may not be available to us in the future on satisfactory terms or at all. Additionally, the ever-increasing costs of insurance will impact our profitability to the extent that we cannot offset these increases into our costs of services. If the insurance we carry is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. If we were not able to renew all of the insurance plans that cover temporary healthcare employees, our business would be adversely impacted. The maintenance of health and workers’ compensation insurance plans that cover our temporary healthcare employees is a significant part of our business. If we were unable to secure renewal of contracts for such plans or the renewal of such plans with favorable rates and with competitive benefits, our business would be adversely affected. The current health and workers’ compensation contracts are provided by vendors with whom we have an established relationship and on terms that we believe to be favorable. While we believe that renewal contracts could be secured on competitive terms without causing significant disruption to our business, there can be no assurance in this regard. Our business will suffer if our services are not competitive. The temporary employee placement industry is characterized by vigorous competition. Since we compete with numerous entities that have greater resources than us in each of our business lines, our business will suffer if we are not competitive with respect to each of the services we provide. Our 11 Table of Contents major competitors with respect to temporary medical staffing resources include, but are not limited to, AMN Healthcare Services, Inc., Cross Country Healthcare, Inc., CHG Healthcare Services, Inc., Medical Staffing Network Holdings, Inc., Nursefinders, Inc. and Maxim Healthcare Services Inc. These companies may have greater financial and marketing resources than we. Our failure to remain competitive could harm our business. Our business is highly competitive. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities who are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. In the Government segment, we also compete with the U.S. Government’s own in-house capabilities and the U.S. Government’s ability to hire permanent staff. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we cannot obtain sufficient levels of temporary employees, our business may be affected. TeamStaff Rx is a temporary employment agency, which depends on a pool of qualified temporary employees willing to accept assignments for our clients. Its business is materially dependent upon the continued availability of such qualified medical temporary personnel. Our inability to secure temporary medical personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. Potential tax liabilities may adversely affect our financial condition. From time to time, we have received several notices from the Internal Revenue Service regarding potential underpayment, overpayment or non-payment of payroll-related taxes. We have disputed these notices, and strongly believe that such notices were the result of errors made in reporting taxes paid and the resulting misapplication of taxes paid, in large part due to our operation of approximately seventeen different subsidiaries over the last few years to conduct our various lines of business. The IRS has made claims that, if we were required to pay in full, could materially adversely affect our financial condition. We are contesting these notices because we believe all material payroll-related taxes have been paid. We further believe that once all tax payments are applied appropriately, all material penalties and interest should be abated. We have retained the services of Ernst & Young, LLP to assist us in this regard. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. In settling various years for specific subsidiaries with the IRS, the Company has received refunds for those specific periods; however, as the process of settling and concluding on other periods and subsidiaries is not yet completed and the potential exists for related penalties and interest, such amounts have been recorded in accounts payable in the accompanying balance sheets. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these payroll tax matters will not have a significant effect on its financial position or results of operations. We may not be successful in seeking to setoff legal fees that have been incurred in connection with the investigation of RS Staffing Services. As described in greater detail in ‘‘Legal Proceedings’’, we were served with a federal subpoena relating to our subsidiary, RS Staffing Services, requesting production of certain documents in connection with an investigation of possible violations of Federal criminal laws and related crimes concerning procurement activities. As part of the purchase price of the subsidiary, we issued to the former owners of RS Staffing Services a $3.0 million promissory note, of which $1.5 million was paid in June 2006. On May 31, 2007 the Company sent a notice of indemnification claim to the former owners for costs that have been incurred in connection with the investigation. At September 30, 2007, the amount had not been settled. The Company recognized expenses related to legal representation and costs incurred in connection with the investigation in the amount of $1.486 million during the fiscal year ended Septemb er 30, 2007, as a component of other income (expense). We have also notified the former owners or RS Staffing Services that it is the Company’s intention to exercise its right to setoff the payment of such expenses against the remaining principal and accrued interest due 12 Table of Contents to the former owners of RS Staffing Services. The Company will pursue the recovery as a right of offset in future periods. Although, management and its counsel have a good faith belief that the Company will recover such amounts, no assurances can be given that the former owners of RS Staffing Services would not pursue action against us or that the Company will be successful in the offset of such amounts against the outstanding debt. Accordingly, the Company has expensed costs related to the investigation at September 30, 2007. Risks Relating To Our Revolving Credit Line TeamStaff completed a $7.0 million revolving credit facility by PNC Bank effective on June 8, 2005. Effective February 13, 2006, TeamStaff entered into an amendment to the revolving credit note, increasing the revolving credit facility to $8.0 million. Revolving credit advances bear interest at either the Prime Rate plus 25 basis points or LIBOR plus 275 basis points, whichever is higher. The facility has a three-year life and contains term and line of credit borrowing options. The facility is subject to certain restrictive covenants, including minimum combined cash and line availability. In addition, the line of credit is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. The facility is subject to acceleration upon non-payment or various other standard default clauses. Material increases in Prime or LIBOR rate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, the status of the revolving credit facility, as well as interest costs. Failure to pay revolving credit advances or any failure to comply with applicable restrictive covenants would have a material adverse effect on our business in that we could be required to repay the outstanding balance in advance or sell assets in order to repay the outstanding amount. Further, availability under the line is directly related to the successful assignment of certain accounts receivable. Certain government accounts of RS Staffing Services are required to execute ‘‘Acknowledgements of Assignment.’’ There can be no assurance that every RS Staffing Services government account will execute the documentation to effectuate the assignment and secure availability. The failure of government third parties to sign the required documentation could result in a decrease in availability under the line of credit, which would materially affect the Company’s business. The facility expires in June 2008 and the Company will be seeking to replace the facility with PNC Bank or another financial institution; should the Company be unable to obtain an extension or a replacement credit facility on acceptable terms, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, interest expense and cash flows. If the facility is replaced or modified prior to June 2008, the Company will incur a non cash write off of the then unamortized capitalized financing fees. Unamortized fees at September 30, 2007 approximated $34,000. Risks Relating To Our Stock There is limited trading volume in our common stock and you may find it difficult to dispose of your shares of common stock; it is possible that our stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol ‘‘TSTF.’’ On December 31, 2007, the closing bid price of our common stock was $0.70. If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Global Market, our common stock will be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as a $1.00 minimum closing bid price. On July 6, 2007, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that the closing price per share of our common stock was below the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for 30 consecutive trading days and that, as a result, we no longer meet The Nasdaq Stock Market’s minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). Nasdaq has provided us with 180 calendar days, or until January 2, 2008, to regain compliance. To regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, the closing bid price of our common stock must remain above $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days during the 180-day compliance period. If this occurs, Nasdaq will provide us with written notification of compliance. However, if we do not regain compliance by January 2, 2008 our common stock will be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. As of January 2, 200 8 we did not regain compliance and on 13 Table of Contents January 4, 2008, we received a notice that our common stock will be delisted. Nasdaq rules permit us to appeal any delisting determination by the Nasdaq staff to a Nasdaq Listings Qualifications Panel and we intend to appeal such determination. Our appeal will stay the suspension and delisting of our common stock pending a decision by a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. In addition, our board of directors has authorized the approval of a reverse stock split in order to facilitate our ability to regain compliance with the continuing listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Market. In the event that such a delisting determination was based solely on non-compliance with the minimum bid price rule, we may be permitted to transfer the listing of our common stock to The Nasdaq Capital Market if we satisfy all criteria for initial inclusion on such market other than compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. In the event of such a transfer, the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules provide that we would be gr anted an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price rule while on The Nasdaq Capital Market. The 180-day compliance period relates exclusively to our bid price deficiency. We may be delisted during the 180-day period for failure to maintain compliance with any other listing requirement which occurs during this period. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading will reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market and the trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a ‘‘penny stock’’ (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Na sdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or ‘‘margin’’ low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitati ng trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Changes in our business, the volatility of the market value of our comparable companies and the impact of litigation and disputes may increase the volatility of the stock price. The price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations in the future. This volatility may result from the impact on our stock price of: • the impact of acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that we may undertake; • the impact of the volatility of the market value of comparable public companies that are considered in our valuation process and any publicly traded securities we may own; • the impact of litigation, government investigations or other customer disputes on our operating performance and future prospects; and • the mix of our commercial and international business as a proportion of our overall business and the volatility associated with companies in those business areas Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you cannot expect dividend income from an investment in our common stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Future potential 14 Table of Contents lenders may prohibit us from paying dividends without its prior consent. Therefore, holders of our common stock may not receive any dividends on their investment in us. Earnings, if any, will be retained and used to finance the development and expansion of our business. We may issue preferred stock with rights senior to our common stock, which may adversely impact the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of ‘‘blank check’’ preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which would adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for our Company and thereby prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, in order to discourage or delay a change of control of our Company, we may do so in the future. In addition, we may determine to issue preferred stock in connection with capital raising efforts and the terms of the stock so issued could have special voting rights or rights related to the composition of our Board. Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Incorporation make a change in control of our Company more difficult. The provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Among other things, these provisions: — require certain supermajority votes; — establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholders’ proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings; and — divide the board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, the board of directors has authority to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares without further shareholder approval. Such preferred shares could have dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights and privileges that are superior or senior to our common stock. Issuance of preferred shares could result in the dilution of the voting power of our common stock, adversely affecting holders of our common stock in the event of its liquidation or delay, and defer or prevent a change in control. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. In addition, the New Jersey Business Corporation Act contains provisions that, under certain conditions, prohibit business combinations with 10% shareholders and any New Jersey corporation for a period of five years from the time of acquisition of shares by the 10% shareholder. The New Jersey Business Corporation Act also contains provisions that restrict certain business combinations and other transactions between a New Jersey corporation and 10% shareholders. Forward-Looking Statement Risks You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements. The information contained in this report or in documents that we incorporate by reference or in statements made by our management includes some forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A number of factors, including but not limited to those outlined in the Risk Factors, could cause our actual results, performance, achievements, or industry results to be very different from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 15 Table of Contents In addition, forward-looking statements depend upon assumptions, estimates and dates that may not be correct or precise and involve known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Accordingly, a forward-looking statement in this report is not a prediction of future events or circumstances and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Given these uncertainties and risks, you are warned not to rely on the forward-looking statements. A forward-looking statement is usually identified by our use of certain terminology including ‘‘believes,’’ ‘‘expects,’’ ‘‘may,’’ ‘‘will,’’ ‘‘should,’’ ‘‘seeks,’’ ‘‘pro forma,’’ ‘‘anticipates’’ or ‘‘intends,’’ or by discussions of strategies or intentions. We are not undertaking any obligation to update t hese factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 