ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("1995 Reform Act"), we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operations and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. 11 Table of Contents Safe Harbor Statement Certain statements contained herein constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the 1995 Reform Act. DLH desires to avail itself of certain "safe harbor" provisions of the 1995 Reform Act and is therefore including this special note to enable it to do so. Forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause DLH's actual results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements to differ from the future results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward- looking statements. Such future results are based upon management's best estimates based upon current conditions and the most recent results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risks identified below. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our shareholders and potential shareholders. There may be events in the future, however, that we are not accurately able to predict or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed below, as well as any cautionary language in this filing, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in the risk factors below, elsewhere in this filing and other events that we have not predicted or assessed could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows or business. In such case, the price of our securities could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry We depend on contracts with the federal government for virtually all of our revenue and our business could be seriously harmed if the federal government decreased or ceased doing business with us or changed its budgets or budgetary priorities. We derive virtually all of our revenues from the U.S. Government as a prime contractor or a subcontractor. Further, our revenue concentration is heavily dependent upon contracts with the DVA. Accordingly, the loss or delay of all or a substantial portion of our sales to the U.S. Government, whether due to a reduction in the overall level of U.S. Government spending or a change in its priorities, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Presently, the Company derives all of its revenue from agencies of the Federal government and the Company has derived a substantial portion of its revenues through various contracts awarded by the DVA. The Company currently provides services to the DVA under a single source Blanket Purchase Agreement awarded in fiscal 2011 that has a ceiling value of up to $145,000,000 and is scheduled to expire on October 31, 2016. The agreement is subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, and there can be no assurance as to the actual amount of services that the Company will ultimately provide under the agreement. This agreement represented approximately 51% of its revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. In addition, the Company also holds contractual order cover through September 30, 2013 in respect of DVA contracts that generated approximately 44% of its revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, which are not currently the subject of requests for proposals and may in due course be further extended by the DVA on a sole source basis. While the Company believes it is well positioned to continue its relationship with the DVA, no assurances can be given that the DVA would further extend our current service orders for the provision of services, that we would be successful in any bid for new contracts to provide such services or that if we are granted subsequent orders, that such orders would be of a scope comparable to the services that we have provided to date. If the DVA does not further extend our current service contracts or we are not successful in our efforts to obtain contract awards pursuant to either the current or new solicitations for the provision of such services, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be materially adversely 12 Table of Contents affected. However, in such circumstances, the Company may be able to avail itself of a right to continue for an additional period beyond the expiration date as part of any protest filed by an interested party. Furthermore, even if the overall level of U.S. Government spending does increase or remains stable, the budgets of the government agencies with which we do business may be decreased or our projects with them may not be sufficiently funded. In the event the budgets or budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government entities with which we do business, particularly the DVA, are decreased or underfunded, our consolidated revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our future success and revenue growth will depend in part upon our ability to continue to expand our business base. Because of the current concentration of our contracts, if a significant number of our contracts are simultaneously delayed or cancelled for budgetary, performance or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. During 2011, the federal government was unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (Budget Act) passed by Congress. Unless Congress and the Administration take further action, the Budget Act will trigger automatic reductions in both defense and discretionary spending in January 2013. While the impact of sequestration is yet to be determined, automatic across-the-board cuts would approximately double the $487 billion top-line reduction already reflected in the defense funding over a ten-year period, with a $52 billion reduction occurring in the government's fiscal year 2013. The resulting automatic across-the-board budget cuts in sequestration could have significant consequences to our business and industry. While it is unclear whether sequestration will occur and what the exact impact of it would be, we are continuously reviewing our operations in an attempt to identify those programs that could be at risk so that we can make appropriate contingency plans. These or other factors could result in a significant decline in, or redirection of, current and future budgets and could adversely affect our operating performance, including the possible loss of revenue and reduction in our operating cash flow. We face risks relating to U.S. Government contracts because these contracts may be terminated at will. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. However, these programs are normally funded on an annual basis. As mentioned above the U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts for convenience. Due to our dependence on these relationships, the modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the government terminates a cost reimbursable contract for convenience, we may not recover the cost of work which has not been completed. We can recover only our incurred or actual cost, to include in certain cases committed costs, and cost for settling outstanding debts and restocking fees. We will also be able to negotiate for a fee based upon the percentage of the work performed or cost incurred. If the government terminates a contract for default, normally we would be unable to recover all costs for work performed and in some cases may be liable for liquidated damages in excess of actual costs incurred. Additionally, the government may seek to have the contract pay for its re-procurement cost for all undelivered items and services not received from another source. Depending on the value of a contract, such termination could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. The Company has never had a contract terminated for default. 13 Table of Contents We incurred a net loss from operations for the year ended September 30, 2012 and industry conditions under which we operate have negatively impacted our revenues. Any failure to increase our revenues and keep our expenses consistent with revenues could prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability. We incurred a net loss from continuing operations of approximately $2.0 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $67.4 million at such date. Our business is under economic pressures due to Federal government procurement delays, substantial Federal budget uncertainty, an economy in recession, and other challenging industry dynamics. We have expended, and will continue to be required to expend, substantial funds to enhance our marketing efforts and to otherwise operate our business. Therefore, we will need to generate higher revenues to continue increasing profitability and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any particular future period. Our prospects should be considered in light of the difficulties we are facing, including the current economic climate and the overall competitive environment in which we operate. Revenue levels achieved from our customers, the mix of solutions that we offer and our ability to reduce and manage our operating expenses will affect our financial results. Our capital requirements are significant and we may need to raise additional capital to supplement our revenues derived from operations. Our working capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. As previously reported, in July 2010, we entered into a secured loan arrangement with Presidential Financial Corporation which, as amended to date, provides us with a maximum amount of $6.0 million of credit, subject to the conditions and limitations of the facility. As described in greater detail in Note 6, our ability to borrow against the increased available credit is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, and presently, the maximum availability under this loan facility is $3.0 million, subject to eligible accounts receivable. In addition, as further described in Note 10, during 2012 the Company completed a rights offering and raised gross proceeds of $4.2 million from the sale of 3,230,769 shares of its common stock. However, we have, from time to time, utilized our secured credit facility to supplement cash flows from operations in order to satisfy our working capital needs. We used approximately $2.8 million and $1.0 million in cash for operating activities for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and our available cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2012 totaled approximately $3.1 million. Based on our business plan and current working capital position, we presently believe that we have sufficient liquidity resources, including those expected to be generated by forecasted operations and from timely collection of unbilled receivables from the DVA as well as those expected to be available under our credit facility, and the effects of cost reduction programs and initiatives to fund our operations for the next twelve months. This in part assumes the ultimate non-payment of certain liabilities and recorded guarantees which we are currently contesting or are not expected to be settled in cash (see Note 6 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements) (classified as current at September 30, 2012) in fiscal 2013. During 2011, the Company received equity and debt funding of $150,000 and $350,000, respectively, exclusive of direct costs. Such proceeds were derived from management and board members and our largest shareholder, all of whom are considered related parties. However, it may be necessary for us to raise additional capital to accelerate growth, fund operations and to meet our obligations in the future. To meet our financing requirements, we may seek to raise funds through equity, debt or equity-based financings (such as convertible debt) or strategic alliances. Raising additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities may cause our stockholders to experience substantial dilution in their ownership interests and new investors may have rights superior to the rights of our other stockholders. Raising additional funds through debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that restrict our business activities and options. We currently have no firm agreements with any third-parties for such transactions and no assurances can be given that we will be successful in raising sufficient capital from any proposed financings, or that additional financing, 14 Table of Contents if at all available, can be obtained on acceptable terms to us. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when required, or on acceptable terms, we may need to reduce expenses and operations and you may lose your investment in our Company. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase substantially as a result of, many factors, including: •our need to utilize a significant amount of cash to support operations and to make incremental investments in our organization; •our ability to achieve targeted gross profit margins and cost management objectives; •our ability to reach break-even or profitability; •our ability to achieve timely collection of unbilled accounts receivable from the DVA; •our ability to continue to not make payment of certain liabilities (classified as current at September 30, 2012); •the success of our sales and marketing efforts; and •changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions. Our contract proposals and in many cases our invoices are subject to audits and investigations by U.S. Government agencies and unfavorable government audit results could force us to refund previously recognized revenues and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. From time to time, U.S. Government representatives may audit our performance on and invoices submitted on our U.S. Government contract. Further, federal agencies can also audit and review our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Under these audits, if it is found that we incorrectly invoiced or invoiced work not performed or claimed hours to be performed that were not performed we would have to refund these amounts. Normally, these audits are performed throughout the year and as such if found represent a refund within the current year. However, the government may go further back in time than the present fiscal year and adjustments may result over one or more fiscal years. Additionally, as a government contractor, we are from time to time subject to inquiries and investigations of our business practices by the U.S. Government due to our participation in government contracts. We cannot assure you that any such inquiry or investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. If a government audit uncovers illegal activities or activities not in compliance with a contract's terms or conditions, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally or with any specific agency, if our reputation or relationships with government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise were to cease doing business with us or were to significantly decrease the amount of business it does with us, our revenue, cash flows and operating results would be materially adversely affected. If an audit determines that any of our administrative processes and systems do not comply with requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts or collect our revenue in a timely manner. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome of an audit could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Moreover, if an audit determines that costs were improperly allocated to a specific contract, such amounts will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded and certain penalties may be imposed. 15 Table of Contents The U.S. Government contract bid process is highly competitive, complex and sometimes lengthy, and is subject to protest and implementation delays. Many of our contracts and task orders with the federal government are awarded through a competitive bidding process, which is complex and sometimes lengthy. We expect that much of the business that we will seek in the foreseeable future will continue to be awarded through competitive bidding. If a bid is won and a contract awarded, there still is the possibility of a bid protest or numerous delays in implementation. Our business could be adversely affected by delays caused by our competitors protesting major contract awards received by us, resulting in the delay of the initiation of work. It can take many months to resolve protests by one or more of our competitors of contract awards we receive. The resulting delay in the start up and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated, and there can be no assurance that such protest process or implementation delays will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the future. This competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following: •we expend substantial cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win; •we may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we win; and •we may encounter expenses and delays if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts, we may be prevented from providing to clients services that are purchased under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected and that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. In addition, upon the expiration of a contract, if the client requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract, and the termination or non-renewal of any of our significant contracts could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our failure to comply with complex Federal procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business, incur additional costs, and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and affect how we do business with our federal agency clients, and may impose added costs on our business. If a government review or investigation uncovers illegal activities or activities not in compliance with a particular contract's terms or conditions, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. The government may in the future reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results. 16 Table of Contents Our government services business is dependent upon maintaining our reputation, our relationships and our performance in regard to government service. The reputation and relationships that we have established and currently maintain with government personnel and agencies are important to maintaining existing business and identifying new business. If our reputation or relationships were damaged, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or expand our business relationship with U.S. Government entities. In addition, if our performance does not meet agency expectations, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. Competition is intense in the government services business. There is often intense competition to win federal agency contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business or win competitions to maintain existing business, our revenue and margins may materially decline. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do, larger client bases and greater brand recognition. Our competitors, individually or through relationships with third parties, may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide. Budgetary pressures and changes in the procurement process have caused many government clients to increasingly purchase goods and services through Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity ("IDIQ") contracts, General Services Administration ("GSA") schedule contracts and other government-wide acquisition contracts. These contracts, some of which are awarded to multiple contractors, have increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that we make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under each such contract. In addition, in consideration of the practice of agencies awarding work under such contracts that is arguably outside the intended scope of the contracts, both the GSA and the DoD have initiated programs aimed to ensure that all work fits properly within the scope of the contract under which it is awarded. The net effect of such programs may reduce the number of bidding opportunities available to us. Moreover, even if we are highly qualified to work on a particular new contract, we might not be awarded business because of the federal government's policy and practice of maintaining a diverse contracting base. We may not receive the full amounts authorized under the contracts included in our backlog, which could reduce our revenue in future periods below the levels anticipated. Our backlog consists of funded backlog, which is based on amounts actually committed by a client for payment for goods and services, and unfunded backlog, which is based upon management's estimate of the future potential of our existing contracts and task orders, including options, to generate revenue. Our backlog may not result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. The maximum contract value specified under a government contract or task order awarded to us is not necessarily indicative of the revenue that we will realize under that contract. Although many of our Federal government contracts contemplate performance over a period of years, Congress often appropriates funds for these contracts for only one year at a time. As a result, our contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term, and all or some of the work intended to be performed under the contracts will remain unfunded pending subsequent Congressional appropriations and the obligation of additional funds to the contract by the procuring agency. Nevertheless, we may estimate our share of the contract values, including values based on the assumed exercise of options relating to these contracts, in calculating the amount of our backlog. Because we may not receive the full amount we expect under a contract, our estimate of our backlog may be inaccurate and we may generate results that differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. 17 Table of Contents Failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors could materially and adversely affect our revenue. We intend to derive substantial revenue from contracts in which we act as a subcontractor or from teaming arrangements, in which we and other contractors bid on particular contracts or programs. As a subcontractor or teammate, we will often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could impact our customer relationship, even if we perform as required. We expect to increasingly depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our revenue and operating results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated if any such prime contractor or teammate chose to offer directly to the client services of the type that we provide or if they team with other companies to provide those services. Loss of our GSA schedule contracts or other contracting vehicles could impair our ability to win new business and perform under existing contracts. We currently hold multiple GSA schedule contracts, including a federal supply schedule contract for professional and allied healthcare services and the logistics worldwide services contract. During 2012, our professional and allied healthcare services schedule was extended through June 2017. In October 2012, the term of our logistics worldwide schedule was extended to November 2017. If we were to lose one or more of these contracts or other contracting vehicles, we could lose a significant revenue source and our operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. These contracts typically have an initial term with multiple options that may be exercised by our government agency clients to extend the contract for successive periods of one or more years. We can provide no assurance that our clients will exercise these options. Our employees (or those of others, with whom we are associated, such as teammates, prime or sub-contractors) may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. Like all government contractors, we are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by our employees (or those of others, with whom we are associated, such as teammates, prime or sub-contractors) could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients' sensitive or classified information and result in a serious harm to our reputation. While we have policies in effect to deter illegal activities and promote proper conduct, these are not a failsafe. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and precautions to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling such risks or losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and liquidity. The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis for the federal agencies we support or changes in the budget priorities of such agencies could delay or reduce spending and cause us to lose revenue. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities and is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When government agencies must operate under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in any new initiatives being delayed or, in the extreme, cancelled. In particular, if the Federal government does not adopt, or delays adoption of, a budget for each fiscal year beginning on October 1, or fails to pass a continuing resolution, federal agencies may be forced to suspend our contracts and delay the award of 18 Table of Contents new and follow-on contracts and orders due to a lack of funding. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance and the occurrence of any of the above mentioned scenarios may materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our profits and revenues could suffer if we are involved in legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. As with much of the government services market, workers performance can result in substantial injury and we are exposed to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. As previously reported, in fiscal 2012, we were advised of a claim by the U.S. Attorney based on an alleged failure to pay certain classes of employees the prevailing wages as required by the Service Contract Act during the years 2003-2010. The Company is continuing to review the data allegedly supporting the claims with the U.S. Department of Justice in an effort to determine whether any wage adjustment is required. These claims appear, in part, to be part of the claims previously disclosed by DLH and related to services provided to the Department of Veterans Affairs by DLH. See "Potential Contractual Billing Adjustments" in the Management Discussion and Analysis, below. Until the analysis of the data is complete, we cannot finally determine either the merits of the claim or the potential impact on us. However, we continue to believe that we have acted in conformity with our contractual commitments and no wage adjustment is required. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that an adverse decision or settlement would not have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business we may become involved in legal disputes regarding personal injury or employee disputes. While we provision for these types of incidents through commercial party insurance carriers, we often defray these types of cost through higher deductibles. Any unfavorable legal ruling against us could result in substantial monetary damages by losing our deductible portion of carried insurance or even criminal violations. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to lower our potential liabilities. If we sustain liabilities that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including our profits, revenues and liquidity. We are dependent upon certain of our management personnel and do not maintain "key personnel" life insurance on our executive officers. Our success to date has resulted in part from the significant contributions of our executive officers. Our executive officers are expected to continue to make important contributions to our success. As of September 30, 2012, our CEO, CFO, Executive Vice President of Business Development and the President of DLH Solutions are under employment contracts. However, we do not maintain "key person" life insurance on any of our executive officers. Loss for any reason of the services of our key personnel could materially affect our operations. Demand for our services could be significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and unemployment or by factors beyond our control (e.g. hurricanes, weather conditions, acts of war, etc.) in the United States. Our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations may be affected by various economic factors. Unfavorable economic conditions may make it more difficult or impossible for us to maintain or grow our revenue. In an economic recession or under other adverse economic conditions, customers and vendors may be more likely to be unable to meet contractual terms or their payment obligations. 19 Table of Contents We may be held liable for the actions of our employees and therefore incur unforeseen liabilities. While we carry insurance for these types of liabilities, as a result of our employer status, we may be liable for violations of these or other laws despite contractual protections. In addition, as our employees may be deemed to be our agents, we could be held liable for their actions which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our staffing of healthcare professionals exposes us to potential malpractice liability. Through our subsidiaries, we engage or have recently engaged in the business of providing healthcare professionals. The placement of such employees increases our potential liability for negligence and professional malpractice of those employees and any such liabilities may not become immediately apparent. Although we are covered by professional malpractice liability insurance on a claims made basis in the aggregate amount of $5.0 million with a $2.0 million per occurrence limit, which we deem reasonable under the circumstances, not all of the potential liability we face may be fully covered by insurance. Any significant adverse claim which is not covered by insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may not be fully covered by the insurance we procure and our business could be adversely impacted if we were not able to renew all of our insurance plans. Although we carry liability insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover the total cost of any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints. In addition, sufficient insurance may not be available to us in the future on satisfactory terms or at all. Also, any increase in our costs of insurance will impact our profitability to the extent that we cannot offset these increases into our costs of services. If the insurance we carry is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Our financial condition may be affected by increases in employee healthcare claims and insurance premiums, unemployment taxes and workers' compensation claims and insurance rates. Our current workers' compensation and medical plans are partially self-funded insurance programs. The Company currently pays base premiums plus actual losses incurred, not to exceed certain individual and aggregate stop-loss limits. In addition, health insurance premiums, state unemployment taxes and workers' compensation rates for the Company are in large part determined by our claims experience. These categories of expenditure comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. If we experience a large increase in claim activity, our direct expenditures, health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes or workers' compensation rates will increase. Although we employ internal and external risk management procedures in an attempt to manage our claims incidence and estimate claims expenses and structure our benefit contracts to provide as much cost stability as reasonably possible given the self-funded nature of our plans, we may not be able to prevent increases in claim activity, accurately estimate our claims expenses or pass the cost of such increases on to our clients. Since our ability to incorporate such increases into our fees to our clients is constrained by contractual arrangements with our clients, a delay could occur before such increases could be reflected in our fees, which may reduce our profit margin. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we were not able to renew all of the health and workers' compensation plans that cover our employees, our business would be adversely impacted. The maintenance of health and workers' compensation insurance and administration plans that cover our employees is a significant part of our business. If we were unable to secure renewal of 20 Table of Contents contracts for such plans or the renewal of such plans with favorable rates and with competitive benefits, our business would be adversely affected. The current health and workers' compensation contracts are provided by vendors with whom we have an established relationship and on terms that we believe to be favorable. While we believe that renewal contracts could be secured on competitive terms without causing significant disruption to our business, there can be no assurance in this regard. If we are unable to attract qualified personnel for our business, our business may be negatively affected. We rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified professionals and other personnel who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary in order to provide our solutions for our assignments. Our business is materially dependent upon the continued availability of such qualified personnel. Our inability to secure qualified personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. The cost of attracting qualified personnel and providing them with attractive benefits packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and, as a result, we could lose clients. Our results of operations and cash flow are affected by our ability to leverage our cost structure. We have technology, operations and human capital infrastructures in place to support both our current business operations and future growth. As revenues grow, these costs are leveraged over a larger revenue base, which positively impacts our results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, in periods of contraction, these costs are no longer as leveraged, adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flow. During the last fiscal year, in light of the adverse market conditions being experienced by our business, we took steps to attempt to manage our general and administrative expenses. However, we expect reductions in such costs to be limited and there to be areas where additional spend may be deemed appropriate by management in preparation for anticipated growth, which will adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow until revenues increase. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. Since the effectiveness for us of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we spend an increasing amount of management's time and resources (both internal and external) to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosures. This compliance requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems. This process has caused us to engage outside advisory services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. We may encounter problems or delays in completing these reviews and evaluation and the implementation of improvements. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could materially adversely affect our business and our stock price. We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations identify and match staffing resources and client assignments. The system also tracks regulatory credentialing expirations and other relevant client and healthcare information. They also perform payroll, billing and accounts receivable functions. While we have multiple back up plans for these types of contingencies, our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which in turn could impact our financial viability, due to the increased cost associated with performing these functions manually. 21 Table of Contents Potential tax liabilities may adversely affect our financial condition. The Company has received notices from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") claiming taxes, interest and penalties due related to payroll taxes predominantly from its former PEO operations which were sold in fiscal 2003. The Company has also received notices from the IRS reporting overpayments of taxes. Management believes that these notices are predominantly the result of misapplication of payroll tax payments between its legal entities. If not resolved favorably, the Company may incur interest and penalties. Until the sale of certain assets related to the former PEO operations, the Company operated through 17 subsidiaries, and management believes that the IRS has not correctly identified payments made through the different entities, therefore leading to the notices. To date, the Company has been working with the IRS to resolve these discrepancies and has had certain interest and penalty claims abated. DLH has also received notices from the Social Security Administration claiming variances in wage reporting compared to IRS transcripts. The Company believes the notices from the Social Security Administration are directly related to the IRS notices received. The Company believes that after the IRS applies all the funds correctly, any significant interest and penalties will be abated; however, there can be no assurance that each of these matters will be resolved favorably. In settling various years for specific subsidiaries with the IRS, the Company has received refunds for those specific periods; however, as the process of settling and concluding on other periods and subsidiaries is not yet completed, the potential exists for related penalties and interest. No payments have been made by the Company in fiscal 2012 or 2011, but as disclosed in Note 9 to the Financial Statements, a liability of $1.3 million is recorded at September 30, 2012. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these remaining payroll tax matters will not have a significant adverse effect on its financial position or future results of operations. The Company's intention is that it will, in due course, seek to negotiate a mutually satisfactory payment plan with the IRS, but there is no assurance that it would be successful in doing so and the Company's future cash flows and liquidity could therefore be materially affected by this matter. We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet. Future write-offs of goodwill may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. We have previously obtained growth through acquisitions of other companies and businesses. Under existing accounting standards, we are required to periodically review goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for possible impairment. In the event that we are required to write down the value of any assets under these pronouncements, it may materially and adversely affect our earnings. See the more detailed discussion appearing as part of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 herein. As of September 30, 2012, we had $8.6 million of goodwill, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. As permitted, we do not amortize goodwill deemed to have an indefinite useful life. Impairment, for goodwill deemed to have an indefinite life, exists if the net book value of the goodwill asset equals or exceeds its fair value. As permitted, we performed a qualitative and quantitative assessment of factors to determine whether it was necessary to perform the goodwill impairment test. Based on the results of the work performed, the Company has concluded that no impairment loss was warranted at September 30, 2012. Additional impairment analyses at future dates may be performed to determine if indicators of impairment are present, and if so, such amount will be determined and the associated charge will be recorded to the consolidated statement of operations. Although it does not affect our cash flow, an impairment charge to earnings has the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses, as the case may be. If we are required to record goodwill impairment charges, our stock price could also be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of net operating loss carry forwards which we may not be able to utilize in certain circumstances. At September 30, 2012, we had net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $40.2 million and $28.2 million for U.S. and state tax return purposes, respectively, and unutilized tax credits approximate $1.1 million. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, following an "ownership change," special limitations apply to the use by a "loss corporation" of its: (i) NOL carry forwards arising before the ownership change; and (ii) net unrealized built-in losses (if such losses existed immediately before the ownership change and exceed a statutory threshold amount) recognized during the five years following the ownership change. As a result of previous business combinations and changes in ownership, there is a substantial amount of U.S. NOLs that are subject to annual limitations on utilization. Our U.S. NOLs begin to expire in 2021 and continue to expire through 2032. These net operating losses are fully offset by valuation allowances as of September 30, 2012. Risks Relating To Our Revolving Credit Line Our credit facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and if we are unable to make the scheduled principal and interest payments on the facility or maintain compliance with other debt covenants, we may default on the facility. On July 29, 2010, DLH Solutions entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with Presidential Financial Corporation (the "Lender"). Under the Loan Agreement, the Lender agreed to provide a two (2) year secured loan facility to DLH Solutions in an aggregate amount of up to $1.5 million, upon the further terms and subject to the conditions of the Loan Agreement. In November, 2010, the Lender agreed by means of an amendment to the Loan Agreement to increase the maximum amount available under the facility from $1.5 million to $2.5 million and on February 9, 2011, we entered into a further amendment to the Loan Agreement pursuant to which the Lender agreed to further increase our maximum availability under the Loan Agreement from $2.5 million to $3.0 million and to provide an unbilled receivable facility within the limits of the Loan Agreement. The February 2011 amendment also extended the term of the Loan Agreement by 12 months, to July 29, 2013, and will automatically renew annually unless terminated by either party. In May 2012, the Company entered into a further amendment to the Loan Agreement (the "Fifth Amendment") pursuant to which the Lender agreed to increase the available line of credit from $3,000,000 to a maximum amount of $6,000,000 and to increase the maximum amount available under the unbilled accounts facility of the Loan Agreement from $500,000 to $1,000,000. The Company's ability to borrow against the increased available credit, however, is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. The Fifth Amendment provides for an initial sublimit under the maximum loan amount of $3,000,000 (the "Initial Sublimit") and an adjusted sublimit of $4,000,000 (the "Adjusted Sublimit"). The Initial Sublimit of $3,000,000 will remain in effect until the satisfaction of the following conditions: (i) the repayment of the $500,000 over-advance accommodation agreed to by Lender as of May 9, 2012, (ii) the Company's demonstration of the need for the increase, (iii) the Company's continued compliance with the Loan Agreement, and (iv) Lender, in its sole discretion, agrees to increase the Initial Sublimit. In the event that the foregoing conditions are satisfied, the credit available to under the Loan Agreement shall remain subject to the Adjusted Sublimit until the parties receive any required waivers or consents from the holders of the Company's subordinated Convertible Debentures issued as of July 28, 2011. In addition, the increased availability under the unbilled accounts facility of the Loan Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of the same conditions that are applicable to Initial Sublimit. Accordingly, until these conditions are satisfied, the current borrowing limits remain in effect. In addition, borrowings in excess of the Initial Sublimit are subject to an origination fee of 1% of the increased availability. 23 Table of Contents An interest rate premium of 2% is payable in respect of any advances secured by unbilled accounts receivable, which are subject to a sub-facility limit of $500,000 and an advance rate of 75%. The loan is secured by a security interest and lien on all of DLH Solutions' cash accounts, account deposits, letters of credit and investment property, chattel paper, furniture, fixtures and equipment, instruments, investment property, general intangibles, deposit accounts, inventory, other property, all proceeds and products of the foregoing (including proceeds of any insurance policies and claims against third parties for loss of any of the foregoing) and all books and records related thereto. DLH Solutions' ability to request loan advances under the Loan Agreement is subject to (i) computation of DLH Solutions' advance availability limit based on "eligible accounts receivables" (as defined in the Loan Agreement) multiplied by the "Accounts Advance Rate" established by the Lender which initially shall be 85% and may be increased or decreased by the Lender in exercise of its discretion; and (ii) compliance with the covenants and conditions of the loan. Under the Loan and Security Agreement, interest accrues at the greater of (a) 3.25% or (b) (i) 1.95% above the Wall Street Journal Prime rate on the accounts receivable portion of the credit line and (ii) 3.95% above the Wall Street Journal Prime rate on the unbilled accounts portion. In addition, DLH Solutions will pay certain other related fees and expense reimbursements including a monthly service charge of 0.65% based on the average daily loan balance which shall accrue daily and be due and payable on the last day of each month so long as the Loan Agreement is outstanding and a monthly collateral monitoring fee. The interest rate in effect at September 30, 2012 and 2011 was 5.2%. At September 30, 2012, based on current eligible accounts receivable, the amount of the unused availability under the line was $344,000. The amount outstanding as of September 30, 2012 was $2,363,000. The Loan Agreement requires compliance with customary covenants and contains restrictions on the Company's ability to engage in certain transactions. Among other matters, under the loan agreement we may not, without consent of the Lender, (i) merge or consolidate with another entity, form any new subsidiary or acquire any interest in a third party; (ii) acquire any assets except in the ordinary course of business; (iii) enter into any transaction outside the ordinary course of business; (iv) sell or transfer collateral; (v) make any loans to, or investments in, any affiliate or enter into any transaction with an affiliate other than on an arms-length basis; (vi) incur any debt outside the ordinary course of business; (vii) pay or declare any dividends or other distributions; or (viii) redeem, retire or purchase any of our equity interests exceeding $50,000. Further, without the consent of the Lender, the Company is also restricted from making any payments in respect of other outstanding indebtedness. The Lender agreed to eliminate the tangible net worth covenant as part of the Fifth Amendment. The Lender may terminate the Loan Agreement at any time upon 60 days written notice after December 31, 2012 and the Loan Agreement provides for customary events of default following which the Lender may, at its option, terminate the loan agreement and accelerate the repayment of any amount outstanding. The defined events of default include, among other things, a material adverse change in the Company's circumstances, or if the Lender deems itself insecure in the ability of the Company to repay its obligations, or as to the sufficiency of the collateral. The Company has concurrently executed a Corporate Guaranty Agreement with Lender pursuant to which it has guaranteed all of the obligations of DLH Solutions under the Loan Agreement. Availability of funds under the Presidential Financial line of credit is directly related to the successful assignment of certain accounts receivable. Certain government accounts of DLH Solutions are required to execute "Acknowledgements of Assignment." There can be no assurance that every DLH Solutions government account will execute the documentation to effectuate the assignment and secure availability. The failure of government customers to sign the required documentation could result in a decrease in availability under the existing line of credit. 24 Table of Contents Our customers make payments directly to a bank account controlled by our Lender. Our customers make payments directly to a bank account controlled by our Lender over which we have no control and which is used to pay down our loans. As a result, our access to cash resources is substantially at the discretion of our lender and could cease in the event of a default on our loan agreement. Risks Relating To Our Stock Our stock price may be volatile and your investment in our common stock may suffer a decline in value. The price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations and may decline in the future. This volatility may result from the impact on our stock price of various specific factors, including but not limited to the following: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •actual or anticipated changes in our growth rates or our competitors' growth rates; •actual or anticipated changes in healthcare or government policy in the U.S.; •conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; •our ability to stay in compliance with credit facility covenants; •our inability to raise additional capital when and if it is required for use in our business; •conditions of our competitors or the government services industry generally; •conditions of our current and desired clients; •changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the government services industry generally; •the impact of our ability to effectively implement acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that we may undertake; •the impact of the volatility of the market value of comparable public companies that are considered in our valuation process and any publicly traded securities we may own; and •the impact of litigation, government investigations or customer or other disputes on our operating performance and future prospects. Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you cannot expect dividend income from an investment in our common stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Future potential lenders may prohibit us from paying dividends without its prior consent. Therefore, holders of our common stock may not receive any dividends on their investment in us. Earnings, if any, will be retained and used to finance the development and expansion of our business. The exercise of our outstanding options and warrants, or conversion of our outstanding debentures may depress our stock price and dilute your ownership of the company. As of September 30, 2012, the following options and warrants were outstanding: •Stock options to purchase 1,362,500 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.56 to $1.88 per share, not all of which are immediately exercisable. The weighted average 25 Table of Contents exercise price of the outstanding stock options is $1.19 per share. These stock options are employee, non employee and non-executive director options. •Warrants to purchase 53,846 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $0.96 per share. In addition, July 2011, we sold an aggregate amount of $350,000 of convertible debentures to entities affiliated with Wynnefield Capital, Inc. (the "Purchasers") pursuant to a standby commitment (the "Commitment").The convertible debentures will mature on the 27-month anniversary of issuance and bear interest at the rate of the greater of the prime rate plus 5%, or 10% per annum, payable at maturity or upon redemption. The convertible debentures are convertible into shares of the Company's common stock at an initial conversion price of $1.30 per share, which was adjusted to $1.25 following the rights offering in accordance with the weighted-average anti-dilution provision. The conversion rate is also subject to adjustment to account for certain customary events. The Company can redeem the outstanding convertible debentures at any time at 120% of the remaining principal amount, plus accrued but unpaid interest. Presently, the convertible debentures are convertible into a total of 280,682 shares of our common stock. To the extent that these securities are exercised or converted, dilution to our shareholders will occur. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected, since the holders of these securities can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than the exercise and conversion terms provided by those securities. Further, in the event the conversion price of our outstanding shares of convertible debentures is lower than the actual trading price on the day of conversion, the holders could immediately sell their converted common shares, which would have a dilutive effect on the value of the outstanding common shares. Furthermore, the significant downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock as convertible debenture holders converted these securities and sell the common shares received on conversion could encourage short sales by the holders of convertible debentures or other shareholders. This would place further downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Even the mere perception of eventual sales of common shares issued on the conversion of the shares of convertible debentures could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We may issue preferred stock with rights senior to our common stock, which may adversely impact the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which would adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for our Company and thereby prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, in order to discourage or delay a change of control of our Company, we may do so in the future. In addition, we may determine to issue preferred stock in connection with capital raising efforts and the terms of the stock so issued could have special voting rights or rights related to the composition of our Board. 26 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Incorporation make a change in control of our Company more difficult. The provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Among other things, these provisions: •require certain supermajority votes; •establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholders' proposals to be considered at shareholders' meetings; and •divide the board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, the board of directors has authority to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares without further shareholder approval. Such preferred shares could have dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights and privileges that are superior or senior to our common stock. Issuance of preferred shares could result in the dilution of the voting power of our common stock, adversely affecting holders of our common stock in the event of its liquidation or delay, and defer or prevent a change in control. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. In addition, the New Jersey Business Corporation Act contains provisions that, under certain conditions, prohibit business combinations with 10% shareholders and any New Jersey corporation for a period of five years from the time of acquisition of shares by the 10% shareholder. The New Jersey Business Corporation Act also contains provisions that restrict certain business combinations and other transactions between a New Jersey corporation and 10% shareholders. Our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval Our executive officers, directors and largest shareholder (Wynnefield Capital, Inc. and its affiliates) possess beneficial ownership of over 50% of our common stock. Within this amount, Wynnefield Capital, Inc. and its affiliates own approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. In addition, an employee of Wynnefield Capital, Inc. currently serves on our Board of Directors. As a result of this share ownership and representation on our Board of Directors, our largest stockholder will be able to influence all affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of our principal stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements. The information contained in this report or in documents that we incorporate by reference or in statements made by our management includes some forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A number of factors, including but not limited to those outlined in the Risk Factors, could cause our actual results, performance, achievements, or industry results to be very different from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. ,In addition, forward-looking statements depend upon assumptions, estimates and dates that 27 Table of Contents may not be correct or precise and involve known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Accordingly, a forward-looking statement in this report is not a prediction of future events or circumstances and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Given these uncertainties and risks, you are warned not to rely on the forward-looking statements. A forward-looking statement is usually identified by our use of certain terminology including "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "pro forma," "anticipates" or "intends," or by discussions of strategies or intentions. We are not undertaking any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 