RISK FACTORS As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“1995 Reform Act”), we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operation and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. 6 Table of Contents Safe Harbor Statement Certain statements contained herein constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the 1995 Reform Act. TeamStaff desires to avail itself of certain “safe harbor” provisions of the 1995 Reform Act and is therefore including this special note to enable it to do so. Forward-looking statements included in this Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause TeamStaff’s actual results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements to differ from the future results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such future results are based upon management’s best estimates based upon current conditions and the most recent results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risks identified below. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our shareholders and potential shareholders. There may be events in the future, however, that we are not accurately able to predict or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed below, as well as any cautionary language in this filing, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in the risk factors below, elsewhere in this filing and other events that we have not predicted or assessed could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows or business. In such case, the price of our securities could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry A substantial percentage of TeamStaff GS’s revenue is from U.S. Government customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues in our TeamStaff GS subsidiary from the U.S. Government as a prime contractor or a subcontractor. Revenues from the U.S. Government represented approximately 98% of the total revenues of TeamStaff GS in fiscal year 2008 and 95% in fiscal year 2007. Further, in fiscal 2008, through its FSS contracts primarily with the DVA, TeamStaff GS had two customers who comprised 31% and 14% of the Company’s overall consolidated revenue. Accordingly, our consolidated revenues could be adversely impacted by a reduction in the overall level of U.S. Government spending and by changes in its spending priorities from year to year. Furthermore, even if the overall level of U.S. Government spending does increase or remains stable, the budgets of the government agencies with whom we do business may be decreased or our projects with them may not be sufficiently funded, particularly because Congress usually appropriates funds for a given project on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. In the event the budgets of the U.S. Government entities with which do business, particularly the DVA, are decreased or underfunded, our consolidated revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining U.S. Government contracts remains a highly competitive process and this has led to a greater portion of our revenue base being associated with contracts providing for a lower amount of reimbursable cost than we have traditionally been able to recover. We are heavily dependent upon the U.S. Government as the primary customer to our TeamStaff GS subsidiary. Our future success and revenue growth will depend in part upon our ability to continue to expand our customer base. We face risks relating to U.S. Government contracts because these contracts may be terminated at will. The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. However, these programs are normally funded on an annual basis. The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts at its convenience. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to potential U.S. Government inquiries and investigations. We are from time to time subject to certain U.S. Government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. We cannot assure you that any such inquiry or investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Our contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. Government agencies. From time to time, U.S. Government representatives may audit costs incurred on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. These audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs. In the event that it is determined that our payments from Government agencies was in excess of contractual costs, we could be assessed for these excess payments. We would expect that we would normally negotiate with U.S. Government representatives before settling on final adjustments to our contract costs. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of these audits. The U.S. Government contract bid process is complex and sometimes lengthy, subject to protest and implementation delays. The U.S. Government contract bid process is complex and sometimes lengthy. Once a bid is won and a contract awarded, there still is the possibility of a bid protest or numerous delays in implementation. There can be no assurance that such protest process or implementation delays will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the future. We are dependent upon certain of our management personnel. Our success to date has resulted in part from the significant contributions of our executive officers. Our executive officers are expected to continue to make important contributions to our success. The loss of our key personnel could materially affect our operations. Currently, our CEO, CFO and the Presidents of TeamStaff GS and TeamStaff Rx subsidiaries are under employment contracts. The Company does not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our key personnel. Our medical staffing business may be adversely affected due to the impact of the economic downturn in the healthcare industry. Our medical staffing business is concentrated entirely in the healthcare industry. The economic downturn in the last four years caused a reduction in our clients’ utilization of our services. Any continued, concentrated or renewed economic weakness generally, or in the healthcare industry specifically, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions could harm our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected by various economic factors. Unfavorable economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to maintain and continue our revenue growth. In an economic recession or under other adverse economic conditions, customers and vendors may be more likely to be unable to meet contractual terms or their payment obligations. A decline in economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business may be adversely affected due to economic conditions in specific geographic markets. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from California, Georgia and Tennessee with respect to allied healthcare and nurse staffing with respect to TeamStaff Rx, and Illinois, Kansas, South Carolina and Tennessee with respect to TeamStaff GS. While we believe that our market diversification will eventually lessen this risk in addition to generating significant revenue growth, we may not be able to duplicate in other markets the revenue growth and operating results experienced in the listed markets. Our financial condition may be affected by increases in health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation rates. Health insurance premiums, state unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation rates are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. If we experience a large increase in claim activity, our health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes or workers’ compensation rates could increase. Although we employ internal and external risk management procedures in an attempt to manage our claims incidence and estimate claims expenses and structure our benefit contracts to provide as much cost stability as possible, we may not be able to prevent increases in claim activity, accurately estimate our claims expenses or pass the cost of such increases on to our clients. Since our ability to incorporate such increases into our fees to our clients is constrained by contractual arrangements with our clients, a delay could occur before such increases could be reflected in our fees, which may reduce our profit margin. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 8 Table of Contents Our financial condition may be affected by risks associated with our health and workers’ compensation claims experience. Although we utilize only fully insured plans of health care and incur no direct risk of loss under those plans, the premiums that we pay for health care and workers’ compensation insurance are directly affected by our claims experience, including the claims experience of our off-site temporary employees. If this experience is unfavorable, the premiums that are payable by us will increase or coverage may become unavailable altogether. We may not be able to pass such increases onto our clients, which may reduce our profit margins. Increasing health care and workers’ compensation premiums could also place us at a disadvantage in competing for new clients. In addition, periodic reassessments of workers’ compensation claims of prior periods (when TeamStaff was covered under large deductible-type plans) may require an increase or decrease to our reserves, and therefore may also affect our present and future financial condition. If unfavorable government regulations regarding temporary and permanent staffing are implemented, or if current regulations are changed, our business could be harmed. Because many of the laws related to the employment relationship were enacted prior to the development of alternative staffing businesses, many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers. Numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax, insurance and employment matters affect our operations. Many states require licensure or registration of entities providing temporary health care or nursing services as well as those offering permanent placement services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with any such regulations, which may be imposed upon us now or in the future, and our inability to comply with any such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations which are not currently applicable to us will not be interpreted more broadly in the future to apply to our existing activities or that new laws and regulations will not be enacted with respect to our activities. Either of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may not be able to obtain all of the licenses and certifications that we need to operate. State authorities regulate the temporary medical staffing and permanent placement industry and some states require us to satisfy operating, licensing or certification requirements. If we are unable to obtain or maintain all of the required licenses or certifications that we need, we could experience material adverse effects to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Health care reform could impose unexpected burdens on our ability to conduct our business. Regulation in the health care field continues to evolve, and we cannot predict what additional government regulations affecting our business may be adopted in the future. Changes in any of these laws or regulations may adversely impact the demand for our services, require that we develop new or modified services to meet the demands of the marketplace, or require that we modify the fees that we charge for our services. Any such changes may adversely impact our competitiveness and financial condition. We bear the risk of nonpayment from our clients and the possible effects of bankruptcy filings by clients. To the extent that any particular client experiences financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations as they become due, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For work performed prior to the termination of a client agreement, we may be obligated, as an employer, to pay the gross salaries and wages of our temporary medical employees and the related employment taxes and workers’ compensation costs, whether or not our client pays us on a timely basis, or at all. A significant increase in our uncollected account receivables may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents We may be held liable for the actions of our temporary employees and therefore incur unforeseen liabilities. A number of legal issues with respect to the employment arrangements among temporary staffing firms, their clients and temporary employees remain unresolved. These issues include who bears the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. As a result of our employer status, we may be liable for violations of these or other laws despite contractual protections. While our client service agreements generally provide that the client is to indemnify us for any liability caused by the client’s failure to comply with its contractual obligations and the requirements imposed by law, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and may then be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, temporary employees may be deemed to be our agents, which could make us liable for their actions. Our staffing of healthcare professionals exposes us to potential malpractice liability. Through our TeamStaff Rx and TeamStaff GS subsidiaries, we engage in the business of providing temporary healthcare professionals. The placement of such employees increases our potential liability for negligence and professional malpractice of those employees. Although we are covered by professional malpractice liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $5.0 million with a $2.0 million per occurrence limit, which we deem reasonable under the circumstances, not all of the potential liability we face may be fully covered by insurance. Any significant adverse claim, which is not covered by insurance, may have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be fully covered by the insurance we procure. Although we carry liability insurance, the insurance we purchase may not be sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints. In addition, sufficient insurance may not be available to us in the future on satisfactory terms or at all. Additionally, the ever-increasing costs of insurance will impact our profitability to the extent that we cannot offset these increases into our costs of services. If the insurance we carry is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. If we were not able to renew all of the insurance plans that cover temporary healthcare employees, our business would be adversely impacted. The maintenance of health and workers’ compensation insurance plans that cover our temporary healthcare employees is a significant part of our business. If we were unable to secure renewal of contracts for such plans or the renewal of such plans with favorable rates and with competitive benefits, our business would be adversely affected. The current health and workers’ compensation contracts are provided by vendors with whom we have an established relationship and on terms that we believe to be favorable. While we believe that renewal contracts could be secured on competitive terms without causing significant disruption to our business, there can be no assurance in this regard. We operate in a highly competitive market and our success depends on our ability to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining hospital and healthcare facility clients and demonstrating the value of our services. The temporary employee placement industry is characterized by vigorous competition. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service staffing companies, specialized temporary staffing agencies and hospital systems that have developed their own interim staffing pools. Since we compete with numerous entities that have greater resources than us, our business will suffer if we are not competitive with respect to each of the services we provide. Our major competitors with respect to temporary medical staffing include, but are not limited to, AMN Healthcare Services, Inc., Cross Country Healthcare, Inc., CHG Healthcare Services, Inc., Medical Staffing Network Holdings, Inc., Nursefinders, Inc. and Maxim Healthcare Services Inc. These companies may have greater financial and marketing resources than we. We believe that the primary competitive factors in obtaining and retaining hospital and healthcare facility clients are identifying qualified healthcare professionals for specific job requirements, providing qualified employees in a timely manner, pricing services competitively and effectively monitoring the job performance of our temporary professionals. Competition for hospital and healthcare facility clients and temporary and permanent healthcare professionals may increase in the future related to these factors or due to a shortage of qualified healthcare professionals in the marketplace and, as a result, we may not be able to remain competitive. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share b reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenue or clients and our margins could decline, which could seriously harm our operating results and cause the price of our stock to decline. 10 Table of Contents Our failure to remain competitive could harm our business. Our business is highly competitive. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities who are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. In the Government segment, we also compete with the U.S. Government’s own in-house capabilities and the U.S. Government’s ability to hire permanent staff. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have long-term or exclusive agreements with our non-government temporary medical staffing clients and growth of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure and fill new orders. We do not have long-term agreements or exclusive guaranteed order contracts with our non-government temporary healthcare staffing clients. Assignments for our non-government temporary healthcare staffing typically have a term of thirteen weeks. The success of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from clients and to fill those orders with our healthcare professionals. Our agreements do not provide for exclusive use of our services, and clients are free to place orders with our competitors. As a result, it is imperative to our business that we maintain positive relationships with our clients. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with these clients, we may be unable to generate new contract staffing orders, and the growth of our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract qualified nurses and allied health professionals for our healthcare staffing business, our business may be negatively affected. TeamStaff Rx is a temporary employment agency, which depends on a pool of qualified temporary employees willing to accept assignments for our clients. We rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain nurses and allied health professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our hospital and healthcare facility clients. We compete for temporary healthcare professionals with other temporary healthcare staffing companies and with hospitals and healthcare facilities. We must continually evaluate and expand our temporary healthcare professional network to keep pace with our hospital and healthcare facility clients’ needs. Currently, there is a shortage of qualified nurses in most areas of the United States and competition for nursing personnel is increasing. We may be unable to continue to increase the number of temporary healthcare professionals that we recruit, thereby decreasing the potential for growing our business. Our ability to attract and retain temporary healthcare professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide temporary healthcare professionals with assignments that they view as attractive and to provide them with competitive benefits and wages. The cost of attracting temporary healthcare professionals and providing them with attractive benefits packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain temporary healthcare professionals, the quality of our services to our hospital and healthcare facility clients may decline and, as a result, we could lose clients. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations identify and match staffing resources and client assignments. The system also tracks regulatory credentialing expirations and other relevant client and healthcare information. They also perform payroll, billing and accounts receivable functions. Our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, maintain billing and staffing records reliably, pay our staff in a timely fashion and bill for services efficiently. 11 Table of Contents Potential tax liabilities may adversely affect our financial condition. From time to time, we have received several notices from the Internal Revenue Service regarding potential underpayment, overpayment or non-payment of payroll-related taxes. We have disputed these notices, and strongly believe that such notices were the result of errors made in reporting taxes paid and the resulting misapplication of taxes paid, in large part due to our operation of approximately seventeen different subsidiaries predominantly from our former Professional Employer Organization discontinued operations. The IRS has made claims that, if we were required to pay in full, could materially adversely affect our financial condition. We are contesting these notices because we believe all material payroll-related taxes have been paid. We further believe that once all tax payments are applied appropriately, all material penalties and interest should be abated. We have retained the services of Ernst & Young, LLP to assist us in this regard. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. In settling various years for specific subsidiaries with the IRS, the Company has received refunds for those specific periods; however, as the process of settling and concluding on other periods and subsidiaries is not yet completed and the potential exists for related penalties and interest, such amounts have been recorded in accounts payable in the accompanying balance sheets. Based on an assessment of periods settled and the status of open periods under review by the IRS, management reduced its estimated liability by $0.7 million in 2008. Such amount, accounted for as a change in estimate, is included as a component of other income (expense) in the accompanying 2008 statement of operations. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these remaining payroll tax matters will not have a significant adverse effect on its financial position or future results of operations. If we fail to execute our acquisitions or investments, our business could suffer. Historically, we have supplemented our internal growth through acquisitions and may do so in the future through acquisitions, investments or joint ventures. We evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and joint ventures on an ongoing basis. Any acquisitions and investments that we may pursue pose many risks, including: • We may not be able to compete successfully for available acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions or investments or accurately estimate their financial effect on our business; • Future acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may require us to issue additional common stock, spend significant cash amounts or decrease our operating income; • We may have trouble integrating the acquired business and retaining its personnel; • Acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities; • There can be no assurances that we would realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment or that we would be able to manage the growth of our company following such a transaction; • There may be substantial costs associated with pursuing or integrating acquisitions or strategic investments; and • If our acquisitions or investments fail, our business could be harmed. We may acquire additional companies, which may result in adverse effects on our earnings. We may at times become involved in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. Any acquisition that we may consummate may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and earnings and may be dilutive to our earnings. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or obtain additional capital through the sale of debt or equity to finance an acquisition, our shareholders may experience dilution in their equity. We have previously obtained growth through acquisitions of other companies and businesses. Under Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No.141, Business Combinations (SFAS No.141) and No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) implemented in June 2001, we are required to periodically review goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for possible impairment. In the event that we are required to write down the value of any assets under these pronouncements, it may materially and adversely affect our earnings. See the more detailed discussion appearing as part of our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 herein. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Revolving Credit Line Our credit facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and if we are unable to make the scheduled principal and interest payments on the facility or maintain compliance with other debt covenants, we may default on the facility. TeamStaff completed a $3.0 million revolving credit facility by Sovereign Business Capital (formerly known as Business Alliance Capital Company), a division of Sovereign Bank, effective on March 28, 2008. Revolving credit advances bear interest at the per annum rate of Prime Rate plus 25 basis points, but not less than 5.5% per annum. The facility has a three-year life and contains term and line of credit borrowing options. The facility is subject to certain restrictive covenants, including minimum debt service coverage ratio and restrictions on the Company’s ability to, among other things, dispose of certain assets, engage in certain transactions, incur indebtedness and pay dividends. In addition, the line of credit is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. Due to these covenants and restrictions, our operations may be affected in several ways. For instance, a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness and as referenced above, our ability to enter into certain transactions, incur additional indebtedness and dispose of certain assets may be limited. The facility is subject to acceleration upon non-payment or various other standard default clauses. Material increases in the Prime rate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, the status of the revolving credit facility, as well as interest costs. Failure to pay revolving credit advances or any failure to comply with applicable restrictive covenants would have a material adverse effect on our business in that we could be required to repay the outstanding balance in advance or sell assets in order to repay the outstanding amount. In addition, the Lender could seize the collateral securing the loan facility. Further, availability under the line is directly related to the successful assignment of certain accounts receivable. Certain government accounts of TeamStaff GS are required to execute “Acknowledgements of Assignment.” There can be no assurance that every TeamStaff GS government account will execute the documentation to effectuate the assignment and secure availability. The failure of government third parties to sign the required documentation could result in a decrease in availability under the line of credit, which would materially affect the Company’s business. Risks Relating To Our Stock Changes in our business, the volatility of the market value of our comparable companies and the impact of litigation and disputes may increase the volatility of the stock price. The price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations in the future. This volatility may result from the impact on our stock price of: • the impact of acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that we may undertake; • the impact of the volatility of the market value of comparable public companies that are considered in our valuation process and any publicly traded securities we may own; • the impact of litigation, government investigations or other customer disputes on our operating performance and future prospects; and • the mix of our commercial and international business as a proportion of our overall business and the volatility associated with companies in those business areas Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you cannot expect dividend income from an investment in our common stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Future potential lenders may prohibit us from paying dividends without its prior consent. Therefore, holders of our common stock may not receive any dividends on their investment in us. Earnings, if any, will be retained and used to finance the development and expansion of our business. 13 Table of Contents We may issue preferred stock with rights senior to our common stock, which may adversely impact the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which would adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for our Company and thereby prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, in order to discourage or delay a change of control of our Company, we may do so in the future. In addition, we may determine to issue preferred stock in connection with capital raising efforts and the terms of the stock so issued could have special voting rights or rights related to the composition of our Board. Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Incorporation make a change in control of our Company more difficult. The provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Among other things, these provisions: • require certain supermajority votes; • establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholders’ proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings; and • divide the board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, the board of directors has authority to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares without further shareholder approval. Such preferred shares could have dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights and privileges that are superior or senior to our common stock. Issuance of preferred shares could result in the dilution of the voting power of our common stock, adversely affecting holders of our common stock in the event of its liquidation or delay, and defer or prevent a change in control. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. In addition, the New Jersey Business Corporation Act contains provisions that, under certain conditions, prohibit business combinations with 10% shareholders and any New Jersey corporation for a period of five years from the time of acquisition of shares by the 10% shareholder. The New Jersey Business Corporation Act also contains provisions that restrict certain business combinations and other transactions between a New Jersey corporation and 10% shareholders. Forward-Looking Statement Risks You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements. The information contained in this report or in documents that we incorporate by reference or in statements made by our management includes some forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A number of factors, including but not limited to those outlined in the Risk Factors, could cause our actual results, performance, achievements, or industry results to be very different from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-looking statements depend upon assumptions, estimates and dates that may not be correct or precise and involve known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Accordingly, a forward-looking statement in this report is not a prediction of future events or circumstances and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Given these uncertainties and risks, you are warned not to rely on the forward-looking statements. A forward-looking statement is usually identified by our use of certain terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “pro forma,” “anticipates” or “intends,” or by discussions of strategies or intentions. We are not undertaking any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 