Item 1A. Risk Factors As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“1995 Reform Act”), we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operation and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Safe Harbor Statement Certain statements contained herein constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the 1995 Reform Act. TeamStaff desires to avail itself of certain “safe harbor” provisions of the 1995 Reform Act and is therefore including this special note to enable it to do so. Forward-looking statements included in this Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause TeamStaff’s actual results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements to differ from the future results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such future results are based upon management’s best estimates based upon current conditions and the most recent results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risks identified below. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our shareholders and potential shareholders. There may be events in the future, however, that we are not accurately able to predict or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed below, as well as any cautionary language in this filing, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in the risk factors below, elsewhere in this filing and other events that we have not predicted or assessed could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows or business. In such case, the price of our securities could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry We depend on contracts with the federal government for a substantial majority of our revenue and our business could be seriously harmed if the federal government decreased or ceased doing business with us or changed its budgets or budgetary priorities. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from the U.S. Government as a prime contractor or a subcontractor. Revenues from the U.S. Government represented 98% of the total revenues from continuing operations for each of the 2010 and 2009 fiscal years. Further, in fiscal 2010, 95% of our revenue were via contracts with the DVA. Accordingly, our consolidated revenues could be materially adversely impacted by a reduction in the overall level of U.S. Government spending and/or by changes in its spending priorities from year to year. TeamStaff remains particularly dependent on the continuation of its relationship with the DVA. As previously reported, in January 2008 TeamStaff GS was issued purchase orders for six of the DVA’s consolidated pharmacy distribution centers from the DVA national contracting office. Although the current task orders expired on December 31, 2009, continuation of services extensions for all locations serviced by TeamStaff GS have been granted by the DVA to us through March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011, with respect to pharmaceutical services and logistic services, respectively. The DVA released a new request for proposal in 2010 related to healthcare delivery support services at its pharmacy distribution facilities. The Company submitted a proposal in a timely manner. The DVA has not as of yet published a request for proposals with respect to the provision of logistic services at these locations. Although the Company believes it is well-positioned to continue its relationship with the DVA, no assurances can be given that the DVA would further extend our current service orders for the provision of pharmacy or logistics services, that we would be successful in any bid for new contracts to provide such services or that if we are granted subsequent orders, that such orders would be of a scope comparable to the services that we have provided to date. If the DVA does not further extend our current service orders or we are not successful in our efforts to obtain contract awards pursuant to either current or new solicitations for such services, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Furthermore, even if the overall level of U.S. Government spending does increase or remains stable, the budgets of the government agencies with whom we do business may be decreased or our projects with them may not be sufficiently funded, particularly because Congress usually appropriates funds for a given project on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. In the event the budgets or budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government entities with which we do business, particularly the DVA, are decreased or underfunded, our consolidated revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, obtaining U.S. Government contracts remains a highly competitive process and this has led to a greater portion of our revenue base being associated with contracts providing for a lower amount of reimbursable cost than we have traditionally been able to recover. We are heavily dependent upon the U.S. Government as the primary customer to our TeamStaff GS subsidiary. In light of the recent disposition of our TeamStaff Rx business, our dependence on the results of operations of TeamStaff GS is significantly increased as compared to prior periods. Our future success and revenue growth will depend in part upon our ability to continue to expand our customer base. We face risks relating to U.S. Government contracts because these contracts may be terminated at will. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. However, these programs are normally funded on an annual basis. The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts at its convenience. Due to our increasing dependence on these relationships, the modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, federal government contracts contain other provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies, some of which are not typically found in commercial contracts. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may be unable to recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Depending on the value of a contract, such termination could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We incurred a net loss from operations for the year ended September 30, 2010 and industry conditions under which we operate have negatively impacted our revenues. Any failure to increase our revenues and keep our expenses consistent with revenues could prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability We incurred a net loss from continuing operations of approximately $4.6 million and a net loss from a discontinued operation of $1.2 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $61.1 million at such date. Our business is under economic pressures due to federal government in-sourcing, high unemployment rates, an economy in recession, and other challenging industry dynamics. These industry conditions caused our revenues to drop by approximately 11.2% from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010 and resulted in our incurring a net loss in fiscal 2010. We have expended, and will continue to be required to expend, substantial funds to enhance our marketing efforts and to otherwise operate our business. Therefore, we will need to generate higher revenues to achieve and maintain profitability and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any future period. Our prospects should be considered in light of the difficulties we are facing, including the current economic climate and the overall competitive environment in which we operate. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitable operations in future operating periods. Revenue levels achieved from our customers, the mix of solutions that we offer and our ability to reduce and manage our operating expenses will affect our financial results. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any particular future period. 11 Table of Contents Our capital requirements are significant and we may need to raise additional capital to supplement our revenues derived from operations. Our working capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. As previously reported, in July 2010, we entered into a secured loan arrangement with Presidential Financial Corporation which, as amended to date, provides us with a maximum amount of $3.0 million of credit, subject to the conditions and limitations of the facility. We have, from time to time, utilized our secured credit facility to supplement cash flows from operations in order to satisfy our working capital needs. We used approximately $2.2 million and $2.1 million in cash for operating activities for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and our available cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2010 totaled approximately $1.2 million. Based on our business plan and current working capital position, including the Commitments, we presently believe that we have sufficient liquidity resources, including those expected to be generated by forecasted operations and from collection of unbilled receivables from the DVA as well as those expected to be available under our credit facility, and the effects of cost reduction programs and initiatives to fund our operations for the next twelve months. This in part assumes the ultimate non-payment of certain liabilities which we are currently contesting (classified as current at September 30, 2010) in fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2012. However, it may be necessary for us to raise additional capital to accelerate growth, fund operations and to meet our obligations in the future. To meet our financing requirements, we may seek to raise funds through equity, debt or equity-based financings (such as convertible debt) or strategic alliances. As stated above, in February 2011, our largest shareholder, Wynnefield Capital, Inc., and certain of our directors and executive officers provided assurances for future financings whereby they collectively agreed to provide up to $500,000 of additional capital to us if we determine, prior to February 28, 2012, that such funds are required. Raising additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities may cause our stockholders to experience substantial dilution in their ownership interests and new investors may have rights superior to the rights of our other stockholders. Raising funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities, may result in us issuing securities with powers, designations, preferences or rights senior to our currently outstanding securities and raising additional funds through debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that restrict our business activities and options. While the Commitments are unconditional, the specific terms of any financing which we may request under these Commitments are subject to final negotiation among the parties and board approval. Other than with respect to any financing pursuant to the Commitments, we currently have no firm agreements with any third-parties for such transactions and no assurances can be given that we will be successful in raising sufficient capital from any proposed financings, or that additional financing, if at all available, can be obtained on acceptable terms to us. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when required, or on acceptable terms, we may need to reduce expenses and operations and you may lose your investment in our company. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase substantially as a result of many factors, including: • our need to utilize a significant amount of cash to support operations and to make incremental investments in our organization; • our ability to achieve targeted gross profit margins and cost management objectives; • our ability to reach break-even or profitability; • our ability to achieve timely collection of unbilled accounts receivable from the DVA; • our ability to continue to not make payment of certain liabilities (classified as current at September 30, 2010); • the success of our sales and marketing efforts; and • changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions. 12 Table of Contents Our contract costs are subject to audits and investigations by U.S. Government agencies and unfavorable government audit results could force us to refund previously recognized revenues and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. From time to time, U.S. Government representatives may audit our performance on and costs incurred on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. Further, federal agencies can also audit and review our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs or result in our refunding of previously recognized revenues. Similarly, we are from time to time subject to inquiries and investigations of our business practices by the U.S. Government due to our participation in government contracts. We cannot assure you that any such inquiry or investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally or with any specific agency, if our reputation or relationships with government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise were to cease doing business with us or were to significantly decrease the amount of business it does with us, our revenue, cash flows and operating results would be materially adversely affected. The U.S. Government contract bid process is complex and sometimes lengthy, subject to protest and implementation delays. Many of our contracts and task orders with the federal government are awarded through a competitive bidding process, which is complex and sometimes lengthy. If a bid is won and a contract awarded, there still is the possibility of a bid protest or numerous delays in implementation. Our business could be adversely affected by delays caused by our competitors protesting major contract awards received by us, resulting in the delay of the initiation of work. It can take many months to resolve protests by one or more of our competitors of contract awards we receive. The resulting delay in the start up and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated and there can be no assurance that such protest process or implementation delays will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the future. This competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following: • we expend substantial cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win; • we may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we win; and • we may encounter expense and delay if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts, we may be prevented from providing to clients services that are purchased under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected and that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. In addition, upon the expiration of a contract, if the client requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract, and the termination or non-renewal of any of our significant contracts could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our failure to comply with complex federal procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business, incur additional costs, and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and affect how we do business with our federal agency clients, and may impose added costs on our business. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. The government may in the future reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Our government services business is dependent upon maintaining our reputation, our relationships and our performance in regard to government service. The reputation and relationships that we have established and currently maintain with government personnel and agencies are important to maintaining existing business and identifying new business. If our reputation or relationships were damaged, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or expand our business relationship with U.S. Government entities. In addition, if our performance does not meet agency expectations, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. Competition is intense in the government services business. There is often intense competition to win federal agency contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business or win competitions to maintain existing business, our revenue and margins may materially decline. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do, larger client bases, and greater brand recognition. Our competitors, individually or through relationships with third parties, may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide. Budgetary pressures and changes in the procurement process have caused many government clients to increasingly purchase goods and services through Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contracts, GSA schedule contracts and other government-wide acquisition contracts. These contracts, some of which are awarded to multiple contractors, have increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that we make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under each such contract. In addition, in consideration of the practice of agencies awarding work under such contracts that is arguably outside the intended scope of the contracts, both the GSA and the DoD have initiated programs aimed to ensure that all work fits properly within the scope of the contract under which it is awarded. The net effect of such programs may reduce the number of bidding opportunities available to us. Moreover, even if we are highly qualified to work on a particular new contract, we might not be awarded business because of the federal government’s policy and practice of maintaining a diverse contracting base. Failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors could materially and adversely affect our revenue. We intend to derive substantial revenue from contracts in which we act as a subcontractor or from teaming arrangements in which we and other contractors bid on particular contracts or programs. As a subcontractor or teammate, we will often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could impact our customer relationship, even if we perform as required. We expect to increasingly depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our revenue and operating results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated if any such prime contractor or teammate chose to offer directly to the client services of the type that we provide or if they team with other companies to provide those services. Loss of our General Services Administration (“GSA”) schedule contracts or other contracting vehicles could impair our ability to win new business. GSA schedule contracts constitute a significant percentage of revenue from our federal agency clients. Due to our dependence on providing services to U.S. government entities, if we were to lose one or more of these contracts or other contracting vehicles, we could lose a significant revenue source and our operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. These contracts typically have an initial term with multiple options that may be exercised by our government agency clients to extend the contract for successive periods of one or more years. We can provide no assurance that our clients will exercise these options. 14 Table of Contents Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. Like all government contractors, we are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by our employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and precautions to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling such risks or losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis for the federal agencies we support or changes in the budget priorities of such agencies could delay or reduce spending and cause us to lose revenue. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities and is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When government agencies must operate under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in any new initiatives being delayed, and potentially cancelled. Changes in federal government fiscal or spending policies could adversely affect our government agency business. In particular, if the federal government does not adopt, or delays adoption of, a budget for each fiscal year beginning on October 1, or fails to pass a continuing resolution, federal agencies may be forced to suspend our contracts and delay the award of new and follow-on contracts and orders due to a lack of funding. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance and the occurrence of any of the above mentioned scenarios may materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our profits and revenues could suffer if we are involved in legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. As with much of the government services market, workers performance can result in substantial injury and we are exposed to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. For example, in the ordinary course of our business, we may be involved in legal disputes regarding personal injury or employee disputes. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we frequently make professional judgments and recommendations about conditions of project sites for our clients. We may be deemed to be responsible for these judgments and recommendations if they are later determined to be inaccurate. Any unfavorable legal ruling against us could result in substantial monetary damages or even criminal violations. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to lower our potential liabilities. However, our insurance policies may not be sufficient or may contain exclusions that insurance providers may use to deny us insurance coverage. If we sustain liabilities that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including our profits, revenues and liquidity. We are dependent upon certain of our management personnel and do not maintain “key personnel” life insurance on our executive officers. Our success to date has resulted in part from the significant contributions of our executive officers. Our executive officers are expected to continue to make important contributions to our success. As of September 30, 2010, our CEO, CFO, and the President of TeamStaff GS are under employment contracts. However, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our executive officers. Loss for any reason of the services of our key personnel could materially affect our operations. Demand for our services could be significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and unemployment or by factors beyond our control (e.g. hurricanes, weather conditions, acts of war, etc.) in the United States. Our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations may be affected by various economic factors. Unfavorable economic conditions may make it more difficult or impossible for us to maintain or grow our revenue. In an economic recession or under other adverse economic conditions, customers and vendors may be more likely to be unable to meet contractual terms or their payment obligations. The recent recession and the continuation or intensification of any continued volatility in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the availability of credit to our customers and businesses generally and could lead to a further weakening of the U.S. and global economies. To the extent that disruption in the financial markets continues and/or intensifies, it has the potential to materially affect our customers’ ability to tap into debt and/or equity markets to continue their ongoing operations, have access to cash and/or pay their debts as they come due, all of which could reasonably be expected to have an adverse impact on the number of open positions for healthcare staff they request, as well as their ability to pay for our staffing services. Continued economic weakness is likely to adversely impact our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The recent disruptions in the financial markets have led to unprecedented governmental intervention on an emergency basis. The results of these actions have been unclear, resulting in confusion and uncertainty which in itself has been materially detrimental to the efficient functioning of the markets. It is impossible to predict what, if any, additional interim or permanent governmental restrictions may be imposed on the markets and/or the effect of such restrictions on us, our customers and the operations of corporate entities generally in the United States. There have been and are significant expectations that there may be further legislative changes in the next few years that fundamentally impact the healthcare industry. We cannot assess the impact that any such future changes may have on our customers and, as a result, on our business. We also cannot assess how, and whether, the recently enacted fiscal stimulus bill and healthcare legislation will impact our business and our industry. If unfavorable government regulations regarding contract and permanent staffing are implemented, or if current regulations are changed, our business could be harmed. Because many of the laws related to the employment relationship were enacted prior to the development of alternative staffing businesses, many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers. Numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax, insurance and employment matters affect our operations. Many states require licensure or registration of entities providing contract health care or nursing services as well as those offering permanent placement services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with any such regulations, which may be imposed upon us now or in the future, and our inability to comply with any such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations which are not currently applicable to us will not be interpreted more broadly in the future to apply to our existing activities or that new laws and regulations will not be enacted with respect to our activities. Either of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may be held liable for the actions of our contract employees and therefore incur unforeseen liabilities. A number of legal issues with respect to the employment arrangements among contract staffing firms, their clients and contract employees remain unresolved. These issues include who bears the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. As a result of our employer status, we may be liable for violations of these or other laws despite contractual protections. In addition, as our contract employees may be deemed to be our agents, we could be held liable for their actions which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our staffing of healthcare professionals exposes us to potential malpractice liability. Through our subsidiaries, we engage or have recently engaged in the business of providing contract healthcare professionals. The placement of such employees increases our potential liability for negligence and professional malpractice of those employees and any such liabilities may not become immediately apparent. Although we are covered by professional malpractice liability insurance on a claims made basis in the aggregate amount of $5.0 million with a $2.0 million per occurrence limit, which we deem reasonable under the circumstances, not all of the potential liability we face may be fully covered by insurance. Any significant adverse claim, which is not covered by insurance, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may not be fully covered by the insurance we procure and our business could be adversely impacted if we were not able to renew all of our insurance plans. Although we carry liability insurance, the insurance we purchase may not be sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints. In addition, sufficient insurance may not be available to us in the future on satisfactory terms or at all. Also, any increase in our costs of insurance will impact our profitability to the extent that we cannot offset these increases into our costs of services. If the insurance we carry is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our financial condition may be affected by increases in employee healthcare claims and insurance premiums, unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation claims and insurance rates. Our current workers’ compensation and medical plans are self-funded insurance programs. The Company currently pays base premiums plus actual losses incurred, not to exceed certain individual and aggregate stop-loss limits. In addition, health insurance premiums, state unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation rates for the Company are in large part determined by our claims experience. These categories of expenditure comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. If we experience a large increase in claim activity, our direct expenditures, health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes or workers’ compensation rates will increase. Although we employ internal and external risk management procedures in an attempt to manage our claims incidence and estimate claims expenses and structure our benefit contracts to provide as much cost stability as reasonably possible given the self-funded nature of our plans, we may not be able to prevent increases in claim activity, accurately estimate our claims expenses or pass the cost of such increases on to our clients. Since our ability to incorporate such increases into our fees to our clients is constrained by contractual arrangements with our clients, a delay could occur before such increases could be reflected in our fees, which may reduce our profit margin. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we were not able to renew all of the health and workers’ compensation plans that cover our employees, our business would be adversely impacted. The maintenance of health and workers’ compensation insurance and administration plans that cover our employees is a significant part of our business. If we were unable to secure renewal of contracts for such plans or the renewal of such plans with favorable rates and with competitive benefits, our business would be adversely affected. The current health and workers’ compensation contracts are provided by vendors with whom we have an established relationship and on terms that we believe to be favorable. While we believe that renewal contracts could be secured on competitive terms without causing significant disruption to our business, there can be no assurance in this regard. We operate in a highly competitive market and our success depends on our ability to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining clients and demonstrating the value of our services. We operate in a highly competitive market with respect to each of our areas of strategic focus. As described earlier many of our competitors may have greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources than us. Since we compete with numerous entities that have greater resources than us, our business will suffer if we are not competitive with respect to each of the services we provide. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities which are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to attract qualified personnel for our business, our business may be negatively affected. We rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified professionals and other personnel who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary in order to provide our solutions for our assignments. Our business is materially dependent upon the continued availability of such qualified personnel. Our inability to secure qualified personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. We must continually evaluate and expand our network to keep pace with the needs of our customers. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel depends on several factors, including our ability to provide assignments that they view as attractive and to provide them with competitive benefits and wages. The cost of attracting qualified personnel and providing them with attractive benefits packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and, as a result, we could lose clients. 17 Table of Contents Our results of operations and cash flow are affected by our ability to leverage our cost structure. We have technology, operations and human capital infrastructures in place to support both our current business operations and future growth. As revenues grow, these costs are leveraged over a larger revenue base, which positively impacts our results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, in periods of contraction, these costs are no longer as leveraged, adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flow. During the last fiscal year, in light of the adverse market conditions being experienced by our business, we took steps to attempt to manage our selling, general and administrative expenses. However, we expect reductions in such costs to be limited and there to be areas where additional spend may be deemed appropriate by management in preparation for anticipated growth, which will adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow until revenues increase. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. Since the effectiveness for us of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we spend an increasing amount of management’s time and resources (both internal and external) to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosures. This compliance requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems. This process has caused us to engage outside advisory services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. We may encounter problems or delays in completing these reviews and evaluation and the implementation of improvements. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could materially adversely affect our business and our stock price. We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations identify and match staffing resources and client assignments. The system also tracks regulatory credentialing expirations and other relevant client and healthcare information. They also perform payroll, billing and accounts receivable functions. Our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, maintain billing and staffing records reliably, pay our staff in a timely fashion and bill for services efficiently. Potential tax liabilities may adversely affect our financial condition. TeamStaff has received notices from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) claiming taxes, interest and penalties due related to payroll taxes predominantly from its former PEO operations which were sold in fiscal 2003. TeamStaff has also received notices from the IRS reporting overpayments of taxes. Management believes that these notices are predominantly the result of misapplication of payroll tax payments between its legal entities. If not resolved favorably, the Company may incur interest and penalties. Until the sale of certain assets related to the former PEO operations, TeamStaff operated through 17 subsidiaries, and management believes that the IRS has not correctly identified payments made through certain of the different entities, therefore leading to the notices. To date, TeamStaff has been working with the IRS to resolve these discrepancies and has had certain interest and penalty claims abated. TeamStaff has also received notices from the Social Security Administration claiming variances in wage reporting compared to IRS transcripts. TeamStaff believes the notices from the Social Security Administration are directly related to the IRS notices received. TeamStaff had retained the services of Ernst & Young LLP as a consultant to assist in resolving certain of these matters with the IRS and Social Security Administration. TeamStaff believes that after the IRS applies all the funds correctly, any significant interest and penalties will be abated; however, there can be no assurance that each of these matters will be resolved favorably. In settling various years for specific subsidiaries with the IRS, the Company has received refunds for those specific periods; however, as the process of settling and concluding on other periods and subsidiaries is not yet completed, the potential exists for related penalties and interest. In fiscal 2009, the Company paid $1.1 million, related to this matter. No payments have been made or requested in fiscal 2010, but as disclosed in the footnotes to the Financial Statements a liability of $1.2 million is recorded at September 30, 2010. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these remaining payroll tax matters will not have a significant adverse effect on its financial position or future results of operations. The Company’s intention is that it will in due course seek to negotiate a mutually satisfactory payment plan with the Internal Revenue Service, but there is no assurance that it would be successful in doing so and the Company’s future cash flows and liquidity could therefore be materially affected by this matter. 18 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet. Future write-offs of goodwill and/or other intangible assets may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. We have previously obtained growth through acquisitions of other companies and businesses. Under existing accounting standards, we are required to periodically review goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for possible impairment. In the event that we are required to write down the value of any assets under these pronouncements, it may materially and adversely affect our earnings. See the more detailed discussion appearing as part of our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 herein. As of September 30, 2010, we had $8.6 million of goodwill and $2.6 million of other intangible assets (tradenames) on our consolidated balance sheet, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. At such date, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately 34.0% and 10.2% of our total assets. As permitted, we do not amortize goodwill or intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite useful life. Impairment, for goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life, exists if the net book value of the goodwill or intangible asset equals or exceeds its fair value. As required, we performed our annual review for impairment during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 by performing a fair value analysis of each reporting unit. The fair value analysis was completed with the assistance of independent outside valuation professionals. The carrying values of the intangibles associated with the Company and our continuing TeamStaff GS business were reduced by $1.3 million supported by the results of this analysis. For the purposes of this analysis, our estimates of fair value are based on the income approach, which estimates the fair value of the TeamStaff GS unit based on the probability-weighted future discounted cash flows. Based on the results of the work performed, the Company has concluded that an impairment loss of $1.3 million was warranted at September 30, 2010. In fiscal 2009, as a result of the decision to divest TeamStaff Rx, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $2.3 million to reduce the carrying value of long lived assets (tradename — $0.7 million and goodwill — $1.6 million) to estimated fair value. The estimated fair value was derived from the terms of the sale of these assets to Advantage RN. The impairment charge is included in the 2009 loss from discontinued operations. Contributing to this 2009 impairment charge was the reduction in our projected growth rates (compared to prior projections), management’s previous assessment of the healthcare staffing industry and the significant decrease in the enterprise value of the unit. Additional impairment analyses may be performed to determine if indicators of impairment are present, and if so, such amount will be determined and the associated charge will be recorded to the consolidated statement of operations. Although it does not affect our cash flow, an impairment charge to earnings has the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses, as the case may be. If we are required to record additional impairment charges, our stock price could also be adversely affected. We have a significant amount of net operating loss carry forwards which we may not be able to utilize in certain circumstances. At September 30, 2010, we had net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $36.4 million, $17.0 million and $5.4 million for U.S., New Jersey and other states’ tax return purposes, respectively, and unutilized tax credits approximate $1.1 million. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, following an “ownership change,” special limitations apply to the use by a “loss corporation” of its (i) NOL carry forwards arising before the ownership change and (ii) net unrealized built-in losses (if such losses existed immediately before the ownership change and exceed a statutory threshold amount) recognized during the five years following the ownership change. As a result of previous business combinations and changes in ownership, there is a substantial amount of U.S. NOLs that are subject to annual limitations on utilization. Our U.S. NOLs begin to expire in 2021 and continue to expire through 2030. Risks Relating To Our Revolving Credit Line Our credit facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and if we are unable to make the scheduled principal and interest payments on the facility or maintain compliance with other debt covenants, we may default on the facility. On July 29, 2010, TeamStaff GS entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with Presidential Financial Corporation (the “Lender”). 19 Table of Contents Under the Loan Agreement, the Lender agreed to provide a two (2) year loan and security facility to TeamStaff GS in an aggregate amount of up to $1.5 million, upon the further terms and subject to the conditions of the Loan Agreement. In November 2010, the Lender agreed by means of an amendment to the Loan Agreement to increase the maximum amount available under the facility from $1.5 million to $2.5 million and in February 2011, we entered into a further amendment to the Loan Agreement pursuant to which the Lender agreed to further increase our maximum availability under the Loan Agreement from $2.5 million to $3.0 million and provide for an unbilled receivable facility within the limits of the Loan Agreement. An interest rate premium of 2% is payable in respect of any advances secured by unbilled accounts receivable, which are subject to a sub-facility limit of $500,000 and an advance rate of 75%. The loan is secured by a security interest and lien on all of TeamStaff GS’s accounts, account deposits, letters of credit and investment property, chattel paper, furniture, fixtures and equipment, instruments, investment property, general intangibles, deposit accounts, inventory, other property, all proceeds and products of the foregoing (including proceeds of any insurance policies and claims against third parties for loss of any of the foregoing) and all books and records related thereto. TeamStaff GS’s ability to request loan advances under the Loan Agreement is subject to: (i) computation of TeamStaff GS’s advance availability limit based on “eligible accounts receivables” (as defined in the Loan Agreement) multiplied by the “Accounts Advance Rate” established by the Lender which initially shall be 85% and may be increased or decreased by the Lender in exercise of its discretion; and (ii) compliance with the covenants and conditions of the loan. The loan was originally for a term of 24 months and after giving effect to the February 2011 amendment, which also extended the term of the Loan Agreement by 12 months, will mature on July 29, 2013. Interest on the loan initially accrued on the daily unpaid balance of the loan advances secured by billed receivables at the greater of one point ninety-five percent (1.95%) above the Prime Rate (as published in The Wall Street Journal from time to time) or at the rate of three point two-five percent (3.25%) per annum. The interest rate at September 30, 2010 was 5.50%. However, pursuant to the February 2011 amendment, the Company agreed with the Lender to adjust the rate of interest chargeable under the Loan and Security Agreement to be the greater of (a) 3.25% or (b)(i) 1.95% above the Wall Street Journal Prime rate on the accounts receivable portion of the credit line and (ii) 3.95% above the Wall Street Journal Prime rate on the unbilled accounts portion. In addition, TeamStaff GS will pay certain other related fees and expense reimbursements including a monthly service charge of 0.65% based on the average daily loan balance which shall accrue daily and be due and payable on the last day of each month so long as the Loan Agreement is outstanding. The Loan Agreement requires compliance with customary covenants and restrictions on the Company’s ability to, among other things, dispose of certain assets, engage in certain transactions, incur indebtedness and pay dividends, and TeamStaff GS’s tangible net worth. The Lender may terminate the Loan Agreement at any time upon 60 days written notice after February 29, 2012 and the Loan Agreement provides for customary events of default following which the Lender may, at its option, terminate the Loan Agreement and accelerate the repayment of any amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement. The defined events of default include, among others, a material adverse change in our circumstances or if the Lender deems itself insecure in our ability to repay our obligations, or as to the sufficiency of the collateral. TeamStaff has concurrently executed a Corporate Guaranty Agreement with Lender pursuant to which it has guaranteed all of the obligations of TeamStaff GS under the Loan Agreement. As part of the February 2011 amendment, the Lender also agreed to waive the Company’s non-compliance with the covenant under the Loan Agreement to furnish them with a copy of TeamStaff GS’ financial statements within 90 days after the end of its fiscal year. In addition to granting this waiver, the Lender also agreed to modify this covenant to require that the Company provide them, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and, in addition, at the same time, furnish consolidating income statement and balance sheet schedules, including a reconciliation with TeamStaff GS’s financial information. Availability of funds under the Presidential Financial line of credit is directly related to the successful assignment of certain accounts receivable. Certain government accounts of TeamStaff GS are required to execute “Acknowledgements of Assignment.” There can be no assurance that every TeamStaff GS government account will execute the documentation to effectuate the assignment and secure availability. The failure of government customers to sign the required documentation could result in a decrease in availability under the existing line of credit. 20 Table of Contents Our customers make payments directly to a bank account controlled by our Lender over which we have no control and which is used to pay down our loans. As a result our access to cash resources is substantially at the discretion of our lender and could cease in the event of a default on our loan agreement. Our customers make payments directly to a bank account controlled by our Lender over which we have no control and which is used to pay down our loans. As a result our access to cash resources is substantially at the discretion of our lender and could cease in the event of a default on our loan agreement. Risks Relating To Our Stock There is limited trading volume in our common stock and you may find it difficult to dispose of your shares of common stock; it is possible that our stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “TSTF”. On January 31, 2011, the closing bid price of our common stock was $0.43. If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock will be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as a $1.00 minimum closing bid price. On June 1, 2010, we received a staff deficiency letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) notifying the Company that for the past 30 consecutive business days, the closing bid price per share of its common stock was below the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, as required by Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (the “Listing Rule”). As a result, the Company was notified by Nasdaq that it is not in compliance with the Listing Rule. Nasdaq provided the Company with 180 calendar days, or until November 29, 2010, to regain compliance. On November 30, 2010 we received notice from Nasdaq that it had granted us an additional 180 days to regain compliance with the Listing Rule. To regain compliance with the Listing Rule, the closing bid price of the Company’s common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days before May 31, 2011. If this occurs, Nasdaq will provide us with written notification of compliance. If the Company’s common stock does not regain compliance with the Listing Rule during this additional grace period, Nasdaq will provide written notice that the Company’s common stock is subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market. In that event, the Company may appeal such determination to a hearings panel. There can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to regain compliance with the Listing Rule. Further, this deficiency notice relates exclusively to our bid price deficiency. We may be delisted during the applicable grace periods for failure to maintain compliance with any other listing requirement which may occur. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading will reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market and the trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile and your investment in our common stock may suffer a decline in value. The price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations and may decline in the future. This volatility may result from the impact on our stock price of various specific factors, including but not limited to the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; 21 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated changes in healthcare or government policy in the U.S.; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • our ability to stay in compliance with credit facility covenants; • our inability to raise additional capital when and if it is required for use in our business; • conditions of our competitors or the government services industry generally; • conditions of our current and desired clients; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the government services industry generally. • the impact of our ability to effectively implement acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that we may undertake; • the impact of the volatility of the market value of comparable public companies that are considered in our valuation process and any publicly traded securities we may own; and • the impact of litigation, government investigations or customer or other disputes on our operating performance and future prospects Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you cannot expect dividend income from an investment in our common stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Future potential lenders may prohibit us from paying dividends without its prior consent. Therefore, holders of our common stock may not receive any dividends on their investment in us. Earnings, if any, will be retained and used to finance the development and expansion of our business. We may issue preferred stock with rights senior to our common stock, which may adversely impact the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which would adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for our Company and thereby prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, in order to discourage or delay a change of control of our Company, we may do so in the future. In addition, we may determine to issue preferred stock in connection with capital raising efforts and the terms of the stock so issued could have special voting rights or rights related to the composition of our Board. Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Incorporation make a change in control of our Company more difficult. The provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Among other things, these provisions: • require certain supermajority votes; • establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholders’ proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings; and • divide the board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. 22 Table of Contents Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, the board of directors has authority to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares without further shareholder approval. Such preferred shares could have dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights and privileges that are superior or senior to our common stock. Issuance of preferred shares could result in the dilution of the voting power of our common stock, adversely affecting holders of our common stock in the event of its liquidation or delay, and defer or prevent a change in control. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. In addition, the New Jersey Business Corporation Act contains provisions that, under certain conditions, prohibit business combinations with 10% shareholders and any New Jersey corporation for a period of five years from the time of acquisition of shares by the 10% shareholder. The New Jersey Business Corporation Act also contains provisions that restrict certain business combinations and other transactions between a New Jersey corporation and 10% shareholders. Our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval Our executive officers, directors and largest shareholder (Wynnefield Capital, Inc.) (and their affiliates) possess beneficial ownership of approximately 40% of our common stock. Within this amount, Wynnefield Capital, Inc. and its affiliates own approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. In addition, an employee of Wynnefield Capital, Inc. currently serves on our Board of Directors. As a result of this share ownership and representation on our Board of Directors, our largest stockholder will be able to influence all affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of our principal stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements. The information contained in this report or in documents that we incorporate by reference or in statements made by our management includes some forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A number of factors, including but not limited to those outlined in the Risk Factors, could cause our actual results, performance, achievements, or industry results to be very different from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-looking statements depend upon assumptions, estimates and dates that may not be correct or precise and involve known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Accordingly, a forward-looking statement in this report is not a prediction of future events or circumstances and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Given these uncertainties and risks, you are warned not to rely on the forward-looking statements. A forward-looking statement is usually identified by our use of certain terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “pro forma,” “anticipates” or “intends,” or by discussions of strategies or intentions. We are not undertaking any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 