ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As provided for under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("1995 Reform Act"), we wish to caution shareholders and investors that the following important factors, among others discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013, have affected, and in some cases could affect, our actual results of operations and cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements made herein. Our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.Safe Harbor StatementCertain statements contained herein constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the 1995 Reform Act. DLH desires to avail itself of certain "safe harbor" provisions of the 1995 Reform Act and is therefore including this special note to enable it to do so. Forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause DLH's actual results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements to differ from the future results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward- looking statements. Such future results are based upon management's best estimates based upon current conditions and the most recent results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risks identified below.We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our shareholders and potential shareholders. There may be events in the future, however, that we are not accurately able to predict or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed below, as well as any cautionary language in this filing, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in the risk factors below, elsewhere in this filing and other events that we have not predicted or assessed could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows or business. In such case, the price of our securities could decline.Risks Relating to Our Business and Our IndustryWe depend on contracts with the federal government for virtually all of our revenue and our business could be seriously harmed if the federal government decreased or ceased doing business with us or changed its budgets or budgetary priorities.Presently, the Company derives all of its revenue from agencies of the Federal government. For the year ended September 30, 2013, the Company derived approximately 96% of its revenue from various contracts awarded by the DVA. Among these contracts, in fiscal 2011 DLH was awarded a single source Blanket Purchase Agreement to provide services under our Healthcare business segment. The Blanket Purchase Agreement had an original estimated total contract value of approximately $145 million, which is attributable to our provision of services over a five year period of performance that is scheduled to expire on October 31, 2016. The five year term of the agreement includes a base year and four option years. This agreement represented approximately 53% of the Company’s revenues for the year ended September 30, 2013. In September 2013, DLH was awarded seven task orders to provide logistics services to the Department of Veterans Affairs Consolidated Mail Outpatient Pharmacy (CMOP). The maximum value of the award for the expected five year term, comprised of a base year and four one year options, is estimated at $133 million. Of the seven task orders awarded, six represented successful bids for incumbent regions that the company supported under task orders through November 30, 2013. For the year ended September 30, 2013, 42% of the Company's revenues was derived from services provided to the six incumbent regions. These 9Table of Contentsagreements are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, and there can be no assurance as to the actual amount of services that the Company will ultimately provide under the agreement. The Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be materially adversely affected in the event that we are unable to continue our relationships with the DVA.Because we derive all of our revenue from contracts with the federal government, the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our successful participation in federal government contract programs. However, the funding of our customers pursuant to continuing resolutions and the ongoing debate surrounding the proposed federal budget for fiscal 2014 including questions pertaining to the duration and scope of sequestration, create continued budgetary uncertainty for our federal customers, which may result in reduced awards, postponements in procurement of services and delays in collection of payments, which may affect our results of operations. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Further delays in the adoption of a full fiscal year budget or continuing resolution may materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, even if the overall level of U.S. Government spending does increase or remains stable, the budgets of the government agencies with which we do business may be decreased or our projects with them may not be sufficiently funded. In the event the budgets or budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government entities with which we do business, particularly the DVA, are decreased or underfunded, our consolidated revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A significant decline in government expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs that we support or a change in federal government contracting policies could cause federal government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty or not to exercise options to renew contracts. Given the strong bipartisan support for the Department of Veterans Affairs, we do not expect significant impact from budget negotiations or sequestration to our existing DVA contracts. However, programs we have, or are pursuing, could be materially reduced, extended, or terminated as a result of the ongoing budgetary uncertainty and. there can be no assurances that our revenue will not be impacted by evolving budget priorities. We may experience fluctuations in our revenues and operating results and any failure to increase our revenues and keep our expenses consistent with revenues could prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability.Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly and unpredictably in the future. As discussed in greater detail above, if the federal government does not adopt, or delays adoption of, a budget, or fails to pass a continuing resolution, federal agencies may be forced to suspend our contracts and delay the award of new and follow-on contracts and orders due to a lack of funding. We incurred a net loss of approximately $(0.16) million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $(67.6) million at such date. Our business is under economic pressures due to Federal government procurement delays, substantial Federal budget uncertainty, an economy still attempting to fully recover from a significant recession, and other challenging industry dynamics. However, we have expended, and will continue to be required to expend, substantial funds to enhance our marketing efforts and to otherwise operate our business. Although we continue to manage our expenses, we may need to generate higher revenues to continue increasing profitability and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in any particular future period. Our prospects should be considered in light of the difficulties we are facing, including the current economic climate and the overall competitive environment in which we operate. Revenue levels achieved from our customers, the mix of solutions that we offer and our ability to reduce and manage our operating expenses will affect our financial results.Our capital requirements are significant and we may need to raise additional capital to supplement our revenues derived from operations.Our working capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. Based on our business plan and current working capital position, we presently believe that we have sufficient liquidity resources, including those expected to be generated by forecasted operations and from timely collection of unbilled receivables from the DVA as well as those expected to be available under our credit facility, to fund our operations for the next twelve months. However, it may be necessary for us to raise additional capital to accelerate growth, fund operations and to meet our obligations in the future. To meet our financing requirements, we may seek to raise funds through equity, debt or equity-based financings (such as convertible debt) or strategic alliances. Raising additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities may cause our stockholders to experience substantial dilution in their ownership interests and new investors may have rights superior to the rights of our other stockholders. Raising additional funds through debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that restrict our business activities and options. We currently have no firm agreements with any third-parties for such transactions and no assurances can be given that we will be successful in raising sufficient capital from any proposed financings, or that additional financing, if at all available, can be obtained on acceptable terms to us. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when required, or on acceptable terms, we may need to reduce expenses and operations and you may lose your investment in our Company. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase substantially as a result of, many factors, including:10Table of Contents•our need to utilize a significant amount of cash to support operations and to make incremental investments in our organization;•our ability to maintain operating profitability;•our ability to achieve timely collection of unbilled accounts receivable from the DVA;•the success of our sales and marketing efforts; and•changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions.The U.S. Government contract bid process is highly competitive, complex and sometimes lengthy, and is subject to protest and implementation delays.Many of our contracts and task orders with the federal government are awarded through a competitive bidding process, which is complex and sometimes lengthy. We expect that much of the business that we will seek in the foreseeable future will continue to be awarded through competitive bidding. If a bid is won and a contract awarded, there still is the possibility of a bid protest or numerous delays in implementation. Our business could be adversely affected by delays caused by our competitors protesting major contract awards received by us, resulting in the delay of the initiation of work. It can take many months to resolve protests by one or more of our competitors of contract awards we receive. The resulting delay in the start up and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated, and there can be no assurance that such protest process or implementation delays will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the future. This competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following:•we expend substantial cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win, and to defend those bids through any protest process•we may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we win; and•we may encounter expenses and delays if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract.If we are unable to win particular contracts, we may be prevented from providing to clients services that are purchased under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected and that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. In addition, upon the expiration of a contract, if the client requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract, and the termination or non-renewal of any of our significant contracts could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.Furthermore, the federal government may change its procurement practices, adopt new contracting rules and regulations or contracting methods, or change the basis upon which it reimburses us. In any such instance, these changes could impair our ability to obtain new awards, adversely impact our profit margins, or impose administrative difficulties, any of which could adversely impact our operating results.Our business may suffer if we or our employees are unable to obtain the security clearances or other qualifications we and they need to perform services for our clients. Many federal government contracts require us to have security clearances and employ personnel with specified levels of education, work experience and security clearances. Depending on the level of clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees lose or are unable to obtain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business and our existing clients could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them. To the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which could cause our results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our failure to comply with complex Federal procurement laws and regulations or to achieve satisfactory government audit results could cause us to lose business, incur additional costs, and subject us to a variety of penalties.We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and affect how we do business with our federal agency clients, and may impose added costs on our business. Further, our performance on and invoices submitted on our U.S. Government contracts and our compliance with applicable laws and regulations are subject to audit by the government and the 11Table of Contentsscope of any such audits could span multiple fiscal years. We cannot assure you that any such inquiry or investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.If a government review or investigation uncovers illegal activities or activities not in compliance with a particular contract's terms or conditions, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. The government may in the future reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or applicable contract terms could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, civil, criminal and administrative penalties, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results. Further, as the reputation and relationships that we have established and currently maintain with government personnel and agencies are important to our ability to maintain existing business and secure new business, damage to our reputation or relationships could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Competition is intense in the government services business.There is often intense competition to win federal agency contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business or win competitions to maintain existing business, our revenue and margins may materially decline. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do, larger client bases and greater brand recognition. Our competitors, individually or through relationships with third parties, may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide.Budgetary pressures and changes in the procurement process have caused many government clients to increasingly purchase goods and services through Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity ("IDIQ") contracts, General Services Administration ("GSA") schedule contracts and other government-wide acquisition contracts. These contracts, some of which are awarded to multiple contractors, have increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that we make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under each such contract. In addition, in consideration of the practice of agencies awarding work under such contracts that is arguably outside the intended scope of the contracts, both the GSA and the DoD have initiated programs aimed to ensure that all work fits properly within the scope of the contract under which it is awarded. The net effect of such programs may reduce the number of bidding opportunities available to us. Moreover, even if we are highly qualified to work on a particular new contract, we might not be awarded business because of the federal government's policy and practice of maintaining a diverse contracting base.U.S. Government contracts may be terminated at will and we may not receive the full amounts authorized under the contracts included in our backlog, which could reduce our revenue in future periods below the levels anticipated.Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. Further, the U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts for convenience and to the extent that a contract award contemplates one or more option years, the Government may decline to exercise such option periods. Due to our dependence on these programs, the modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our backlog consists of funded backlog, which is based on amounts actually committed by a client for payment for goods and services, and unfunded backlog, which is based upon management's estimate of the future potential of our existing contracts and task orders, including options, to generate revenue. Our backlog may not result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. The maximum contract value specified under a government contract or task order awarded to us is not necessarily indicative of the revenue that we will realize under that contract. Although many of our Federal government contracts contemplate performance over a period of years, Congress often appropriates funds for these contracts for only one year at a time. As a result, our contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term, and all or some of the work intended to be performed under the contracts will remain unfunded pending subsequent Congressional appropriations and the obligation of additional funds to the contract by the procuring agency. Nevertheless, we may estimate our share of the contract values, including values based on the assumed exercise of options relating to these contracts, in calculating the amount of our backlog. Because we may not receive the full amount we expect under a contract, our estimate of our backlog may be inaccurate and we may generate results that differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.Failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors could materially and adversely affect our revenue.We intend to derive substantial revenue from contracts in which we act as a subcontractor or from teaming arrangements, in which we and other contractors bid on particular contracts or programs. As a subcontractor or teammate, we will often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could impact our customer relationship, even if we 12Table of Contentsperform as required. We expect to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our revenue and operating results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated if any such prime contractor or teammate chose to offer directly to the client services of the type that we provide or if they team with other companies to provide those services.Loss of our GSA schedule contracts or other contracting vehicles could impair our ability to win new business and perform under existing contracts.We currently hold multiple GSA schedule contracts, including a federal supply schedule contract for professional and allied healthcare services and the logistics worldwide services contract. Our professional and allied healthcare services schedule is in effect through June 2017. Our logistics worldwide schedule is in effect to November 2017. If we were to lose one or more of these contracts or other contracting vehicles, we could lose a significant revenue source and our operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our employees (or those of others, with whom we are associated, such as teammates, prime or sub-contractors) may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business.We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by our employees (or those of others, with whom we are associated, such as teammates, prime or sub-contractors) could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients' sensitive or classified information and result in a serious harm to our reputation. While we have policies in effect to deter illegal activities and promote proper conduct, these are not a failsafe. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and precautions to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling such risks or losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and liquidity.Our profits and revenues could suffer if we are involved in legal proceedings, investigations and disputes.We are exposed to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. As previously reported, in fiscal year 2012, we were advised of a claim by the U.S. Attorney based on an alleged failure to pay certain classes of employees the prevailing wages as required by the Service Contract Act during the years 2003-2010. The Company is continuing to review the data allegedly supporting the claims with the U.S. Department of Justice in an effort to determine whether any wage adjustment is required. These claims appear, in part, to be part of the claims previously disclosed by DLH and related to services provided to the Department of Veterans Affairs by DLH. See "Potential Contractual Billing Adjustments" in the Management Discussion and Analysis, below. Until the analysis of the data is complete, we cannot finally determine either the merits of the claim or the potential impact on us. However, we continue to believe that we have acted in conformity with our contractual commitments and no wage adjustment is required. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that an adverse decision or settlement would not have a material adverse impact on us.In addition, in the ordinary course of our business we may become involved in legal disputes regarding personal injury or employee disputes. While we provision for these types of incidents through commercial party insurance carriers, we often defray these types of cost through higher deductibles. Any unfavorable legal ruling against us could result in substantial monetary damages by losing our deductible portion of carried insurance. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to lower our potential liabilities. If we sustain liabilities that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including our profits, revenues and liquidity.We are dependent upon certain of our management personnel and do not maintain "key personnel" life insurance on our executive officers.Our success to date has resulted in part from the significant contributions of our executive officers. Our executive officers are expected to continue to make important contributions to our success. As of September 30, 2013, our CEO, CFO, Executive Vice President of Business Development and the President of DLH Solutions are under employment contracts. However, we do not maintain "key person" life insurance on any of our executive officers. Loss for any reason of the services of our key personnel could materially affect our operations.We may not be fully covered by the insurance we procure and our business could be adversely impacted if we were not able to renew all of our insurance plans. Although we carry multiple lines of liability insurance (including coverage for medical malpractice and workers' compensation), they may not be sufficient to cover the total cost of any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints. If we are unable to secure renewal of our insurance contracts or the renewal of such contracts with favorable rates and with competitive benefits, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, sufficient 13Table of Contentsinsurance may not be available to us in the future on satisfactory terms or at all. Our placement of employees increases our potential liability for negligence and professional malpractice and such liabilities may not become immediately apparent. Also, any increase in our costs of insurance will impact our profitability to the extent that we cannot offset these increases into our costs of services. If the insurance we carry is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future claims, suits or complaints, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Our financial condition may be affected by increases in employee healthcare claims and insurance premiums, unemployment taxes and workers' compensation claims and insurance rates.Our current workers' compensation and medical plans are partially self-funded insurance programs. The Company currently pays base premiums plus actual losses incurred, not to exceed certain individual and aggregate stop-loss limits. In addition, health insurance premiums, state unemployment taxes and workers' compensation rates for the Company are in large part determined by our claims experience. These categories of expenditure comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. If we experience a large increase in claim activity, our direct expenditures, health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes or workers' compensation rates may increase. Although we employ internal and external risk management procedures in an attempt to manage our claims incidence and estimate claims expenses and structure our benefit contracts to provide as much cost stability as reasonably possible given the self-funded nature of our plans, we may not be able to prevent increases in claim activity, accurately estimate our claims expenses or pass the cost of such increases on to our clients. Since our ability to incorporate such increases into our fees to our clients is constrained by contractual arrangements with our clients, a delay could occur before such increases could be reflected in our fees, which may reduce our profit margin. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.If we are unable to attract qualified personnel for our business, our business may be negatively affected.We rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified professionals and other personnel who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary in order to provide our solutions for our assignments. Our business is materially dependent upon the continued availability of such qualified personnel. Our inability to secure qualified personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. The cost of attracting qualified personnel and providing them with attractive benefits packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and, as a result, we could lose clients.We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards.Since the effectiveness for us of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we spend an increasing amount of management's time and resources (both internal and external) to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosures. This compliance requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems. This process has caused us to engage outside advisory services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. We may encounter problems or delays in completing these reviews and evaluation and the implementation of improvements. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could materially adversely affect our business and our stock price.We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems.We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations match employee resources and client assignments and track regulatory credentialing. They also perform payroll, billing and accounts receivable functions. While we have multiple back up plans for these types of contingencies, our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which in turn could impact our financial viability, due to the increased cost associated with performing these functions manually.Potential tax liabilities may adversely affect our financial condition.The Company has received notices from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") claiming taxes, interest and penalties due related to payroll taxes predominantly from its former PEO operations which were sold in fiscal 2003. The Company has also received notices from the IRS reporting overpayments of taxes. Management believes that these notices are predominantly the result of misapplication of payroll tax payments between its legal entities. If not resolved favorably, the Company may incur interest and penalties. Until the sale of certain assets related to the former PEO operations, the Company operated through 17 14Table of Contentssubsidiaries, and management believes that the IRS has not correctly identified payments made through the different entities, therefore leading to the notices. To date, the Company has worked with the IRS to resolve these discrepancies and has had certain interest and penalty claims abated. DLH has also received notices from the Social Security Administration claiming variances in wage reporting compared to IRS transcripts. The Company believes the notices from the Social Security Administration are directly related to the IRS notices received. The Company believes that after the IRS applies all the funds correctly, any significant interest and penalties will be abated; however, there can be no assurance that each of these matters will be resolved favorably. In settling various years for specific subsidiaries with the IRS, the Company has received refunds for those specific periods; however, as the process of settling and concluding on other periods and subsidiaries is not yet completed, the potential exists for related penalties and interest. No payments have been made by the Company in fiscal year 2013 or 2012, but as disclosed in Note 7 to the Financial Statements, a liability of $1.4 million is recorded at September 30, 2013. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these remaining payroll tax matters will not have a significant adverse effect on its financial position or future results of operations. The Company's intention is that it will, in due course, seek to negotiate a mutually satisfactory payment plan with the IRS, but there is no assurance that it would be successful in doing so and the Company's future cash flows and liquidity could therefore be materially affected by this matter.We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet. Future write-offs of goodwill may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses.We have previously obtained growth through acquisitions of other companies and businesses. Under existing accounting standards, we are required to periodically review goodwill assets for possible impairment. In the event that we are required to write down the value of any assets under these pronouncements, it may materially and adversely affect our earnings. See the more detailed discussion appearing as part of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 herein. As of September 30, 2013, we had $8.6 million of goodwill, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. As permitted, we do not amortize goodwill deemed to have an indefinite useful life. Impairment, for goodwill deemed to have an indefinite life, exists if the net book value of the goodwill asset equals or exceeds its fair value. As permitted, we performed a qualitative and quantitative assessment of factors to determine whether it was necessary to perform the goodwill impairment test. Based on the results of the work performed, the Company has concluded that no impairment loss was warranted at September 30, 2013. Additional impairment analyses at future dates may be performed to determine if indicators of impairment are present, and if so, such amount will be determined and the associated charge will be recorded to the consolidated statement of operations. Although it does not affect our cash flow, an impairment charge to earnings has the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses, as the case may be. If we are required to record goodwill impairment charges, our stock price could also be adversely affected.We have a significant amount of net operating loss carry forwards which we may not be able to utilize in certain circumstances. At September 30, 2013, we had net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $41.5 million and $29.5 million for U.S. and state tax return purposes, respectively, and unutilized tax credits of approximately $1.1 million. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, following an "ownership change," special limitations apply to the use by a "loss corporation" of its: (i) NOL carry forwards arising before the ownership change; and (ii) net unrealized built-in losses (if such losses existed immediately before the ownership change and exceed a statutory threshold amount) recognized during the five years following the ownership change. As a result of previous business combinations and changes in ownership, there is a substantial amount of U.S. NOLs that are subject to annual limitations on utilization. Our U.S. NOLs begin to expire in 2021 and continue to expire through 2033. These net operating losses are offset by valuation allowances of $(16.0) million as of September 30, 2013.Risks Relating To Our Revolving Credit LineOur credit facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and if we are unable to make the scheduled principal and interest payments on the facility or maintain compliance with other debt covenants, we may default on the facility.On July 29, 2010, DLH Solutions entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with Presidential Financial Corporation (the "Lender") under which the Lender agreed to provide a two (2) year secured loan facility to DLH Solutions in an aggregate amount of up to $1.5 million, which has subsequently been amended on multiple occasions to increase the available line of credit to a maximum amount of $6,000,000 and to increase the maximum amount available under the unbilled accounts facility of the Loan Agreement to $1,000,000, subject, in both cases, the satisfaction of certain conditions, and presently the current borrowing limits remain in effect. Details of the revolving credit line are disclosed in Part III - Management’s Discussion and Analysis and in Notes 5 and 7 to the consolidated audited financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Loan Agreement requires compliance with customary covenants and contains restrictions on the Company's ability to engage in certain transactions. Among other matters, under the loan agreement we may not, without consent of the Lender, (i) merge or consolidate with another entity, form any new subsidiary or acquire any interest in a third party; (ii) acquire any assets except in the ordinary course of business; (iii) enter into any transaction outside the 15Table of Contentsordinary course of business; (iv) sell or transfer collateral; (v) make any loans to, or investments in, any affiliate or enter into any transaction with an affiliate other than on an arms-length basis; (vi) incur any debt outside the ordinary course of business; (vii) pay or declare any dividends or other distributions; or (viii) redeem, retire or purchase any of our equity interests exceeding $50,000. Further, without the consent of the Lender, the Company is also restricted from making any payments in respect of other outstanding indebtedness. The Lender agreed to eliminate the tangible net worth covenant as part of the Fifth Amendment. Either party may terminate the Loan Agreement at any time upon 60 days written notice and the Loan Agreement provides for customary events of default following which the Lender may, at its option, immediately terminate the loan agreement and accelerate the repayment of any amount outstanding. The defined events of default include, among other things, a material adverse change in the Company's circumstances, or if the Lender deems itself insecure in the ability of the Company to repay its obligations, or as to the sufficiency of the collateral.The Company has concurrently executed a Corporate Guaranty Agreement with Lender pursuant to which it has guaranteed all of the obligations of DLH Solutions under the Loan Agreement.Availability of funds under the Presidential Financial line of credit is directly related to the successful assignment of certain accounts receivable. Certain government accounts of DLH Solutions are required to execute "Acknowledgments of Assignment." There can be no assurance that every DLH Solutions government account will execute the documentation to effectuate the assignment and secure availability. The failure of government customers to sign the required documentation could result in a decrease in availability under the existing line of credit.Our customers make payments directly to a bank account controlled by our Lender.Our customers make payments directly to a bank account controlled by our Lender over which we have no control and which is used to pay down our loans. As a result, our access to cash resources is substantially at the discretion of our lender and could cease in the event of a default on our loan agreement.Risks Relating To Our StockOur stock price may be volatile and your investment in our common stock may suffer a decline in value.The price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations and may decline in the future. This volatility may result from the impact on our stock price of various specific factors, including but not limited to the following:•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;•actual or anticipated changes in our growth rates or our competitors' growth rates;•actual or anticipated changes in healthcare or government policy in the U.S.;•conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions;•our ability to stay in compliance with credit facility covenants;•our inability to raise additional capital when and if it is required for use in our business;•conditions of our competitors or the government services industry generally;•conditions of our current and desired clients;•changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the government services industry generally;•the impact of our ability to effectively implement acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that we may undertake;•the impact of the volatility of the market value of comparable public companies that are considered in our valuation process and any publicly traded securities we may own; and•the impact of litigation, government investigations or customer or other disputes on our operating performance and future prospects.Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you cannot expect dividend income from an investment in our common stock.We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Future potential lenders may prohibit us from paying dividends without its prior consent. Therefore, holders of our common stock may not receive any dividends on their investment in us. Earnings, if any, may be retained and used to finance the development and expansion of our business.The exercise of our outstanding options and warrants, or conversion of our outstanding debentures may depress our stock price and dilute your ownership of the company.As of September 30, 2013, the following options and warrants were outstanding:16Table of Contents•Stock options to purchase 1,612,500 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.56 to $1.88 per share, not all of which are immediately exercisable. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding stock options is $1.15 per share. These stock options were issued for the benefit of employees, non-employee consultants, and non-executive directors.•Warrants to purchase 53,846 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $0.96 per share.In addition, July 2011, we sold an aggregate amount of $350,000 of convertible debentures to entities affiliated with Wynnefield Capital, Inc. (the "Purchasers") pursuant to a standby commitment (the "Commitment").The convertible debentures matured on the 27-month anniversary of issuance and interest applied at the rate of the greater of the prime rate plus 5%, or 10% per annum, payable at maturity or upon redemption. The convertible debentures were converted into shares of the Company's common stock at an initial conversion price of $1.30 per share, which was adjusted to $1.25 following the rights offering in accordance with the weighted-average anti-dilution provision. The conversion rate was also subject to adjustment to account for certain customary events. As more fully described in Note 13 of the financial statements, at maturity $210,000 of these debentures were converted to 168,000 shares of common stock and further, the Purchasers exercised all of their warrants contemporaneously with the conversion of the debenture. The resale of these shares of common stock may place downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may issue preferred stock with rights senior to our common stock, which may adversely impact the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which would adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for our Company and thereby prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, in order to discourage or delay a change of control of our Company, we may do so in the future. In addition, we may determine to issue preferred stock in connection with capital raising efforts and the terms of the stock so issued could have special voting rights or rights related to the composition of our Board.Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Incorporation make a change in control of our Company more difficult.The provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Among other things, these provisions:•require certain supermajority votes;•establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholders' proposals to be considered at shareholders' meetings; and•divide the board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms.Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, the board of directors has authority to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares without further shareholder approval. Such preferred shares could have dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights and privileges that are superior or senior to our common stock. Issuance of preferred shares could result in the dilution of the voting power of our common stock, adversely affecting holders of our common stock in the event of its liquidation or delay, and defer or prevent a change in control. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. In addition, the New Jersey Business Corporation Act contains provisions that, under certain conditions, prohibit business combinations with 10% shareholders and any New Jersey corporation for a period of five years from the time of acquisition of shares by the 10% shareholder. The New Jersey Business Corporation Act also contains provisions that restrict certain business combinations and other transactions between a New Jersey corporation and 10% shareholders.Our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approvalAs of September 30, 2013, our executive officers, directors and largest shareholder (Wynnefield Capital, Inc. and its affiliates) own approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock. Within this amount, Wynnefield Capital, Inc. and its affiliates own approximately 45% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market 17Table of Contentsprice of our common stock. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock.In addition, an employee of Wynnefield Capital, Inc. currently serves on our Board of Directors. As a result of this share ownership and representation on our Board of Directors, our largest stockholder will be able to influence all affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of our principal stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders.You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements.The information contained in this report or in documents that we incorporate by reference or in statements made by our management includes some forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A number of factors, including but not limited to those outlined in the Risk Factors, could cause our actual results, performance, achievements, or industry results to be very different from the results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-looking statements depend upon assumptions, estimates and dates that may not be correct or precise and involve known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Accordingly, a forward-looking statement in this report is not a prediction of future events or circumstances and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Given these uncertainties and risks, you are warned not to rely on the forward-looking statements. A forward-looking statement is usually identified by our use of certain terminology including "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "pro forma," "anticipates" or "intends," or by discussions of strategies or intentions. We are not undertaking any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThere are no unresolved staff comments.