ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our net sales and operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Our quarterly and annual results may vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the volume and timing of customer demand relative to our capacity • the typical short life-cycle of our customers’ products • customers’ operating results and business conditions • changes in our customers’ sales mix • failures of our customers to pay amounts due to us • volatility of customer demand for certain programs and sectors • challenges associated with the engagement of new customers or additional work from existing customers • the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future orders • our effectiveness in planning production and managing inventory, fixed assets and manufacturing processes • changes in cost and availability of labor and components and • changes in U.S. and global economic and political conditions and world events. 6 Table of Contents The majority of our net sales come from a relatively small number of customers and a limited number of market sectors; if we lose any of these customers or if there are problems in those market sectors, our net sales and operating results could decline significantly. Net sales to our ten largest customers have represented a majority of our net sales in recent periods. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 57 percent of our net sales for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2009, and 60 percent for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2008. For the fiscal year ended October 3, 2009, there was one customer that represented 10 percent or more of our net sales. Our principal customers may vary from period to period, and our principal customers may not continue to purchase services from us at current levels, or at all. Significant reductions in net sales to any of these customers, or the loss of other major customers, could seriously harm our business. In addition, we focus our net sales to customers in only a few market sectors. Each of these sectors is subject to macroeconomic conditions as well as trends and conditions that are sector specific. Shifts in the performance of a sector served by Plexus, as well as the economic and business conditions that affect the sector, can particularly impact Plexus. For instance, sales in the medical sector are substantially affected by trends in that industry, such as government reimbursement rates and uncertainties relating to the financial health and structure of U.S. health care generally. Also, net sales in the defense/security/aerospace sector have been susceptible to significant period-to-period variations. Any weakness in the market sectors in which our customers are concentrated could affect our business and results of operations. Instability in the global credit markets and continuing economic weakness may adversely affect our earnings, liquidity and financial condition. Global financial and credit markets have been, and continue to be, unstable and unpredictable. Worldwide economic conditions have been weak and may deteriorate further. The instability of the markets and weakness of the economy could continue to affect the demand for our customers’ products, the amount, timing and stability of their product demand from us, the financial strength of our customers and suppliers, their ability or willingness to do business with us, our willingness to do business with them, and/or our suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us and/or the ability of us, our customers or our suppliers to obtain credit. Further, global credit market and economic challenges may affect the ability of counterparties to our agreements, including our credit agreement and interest rate swap agreements, to perform their obligations under those agreements. These factors could adversely affect our operations, earnings and financial condition. In addition, continued, and potentially increased, volatility, instability and weakness in the financial and credit markets could affect our ability to sell our investment securities and other financial assets, which in turn could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We encountered a situation in which we were unable to make such sales as described in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Auction Rate Securities.” This instability also could affect the prices at which we could make any such sales, which also could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. These conditions could also negatively affect our ability to secure funds or raise capital, if needed. Our customers do not make long-term commitments and may cancel or change their production requirements. EMS companies must respond quickly to the requirements of their customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers also cancel requirements, change production quantities, delay production or revise their forecasts for a number of reasons that are beyond our control. The success of our customers’ products in the market and the strength of the markets themselves affect our business. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer, or by a group of customers, could seriously harm our operating results and negatively affect our working capital levels. Such cancellations, reductions or delays have occurred and may continue to occur. In addition, we make significant decisions based on our estimates of customers’ requirements, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, working capital management, facility requirements, personnel needs and other resource requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. Since many of our operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our operating results. Moreover, since our margins vary across customers and specific programs, a reduction in demand with higher margin customers or programs will have a more significant adverse effect on our operating results. Rapid increases in customer requirements may stress personnel and other capacity resources. We may not have sufficient resources at any given time to meet all of our customers’ demands or to meet the requirements of a specific program. 7 Table of Contents Defense contracting can be subject to extensive procurement processes and other factors that can affect the timing and duration of contracts as well as product demand. For example, defense procurement is subject to continued Congressional appropriations for these programs, as well as continued determinations by the Department of Defense regarding whether to continue them. Products for the military are also subject to continued testing of their operations in the field and changing military operational needs, which could affect the possibility and timing of future orders. While those arrangements may result in a significant amount of net sales in a short period of time, they may or may not result in continuing long-term projects or relationships. Even in the case of continuing long-term projects or relationships, orders in the defense sector can be episodic, can vary significantly from period to period, and are subject to termination. We have a complex business model, and our failure to properly manage that model could affect our operations and financial results. Our business model focuses on products and services in the mid-to-lower-volume, higher-mix segment of the EMS market. Our customers’ products typically require significant production and supply-chain flexibility, necessitating optimized demand-pull-based manufacturing and supply chain solutions across an integrated global platform. The products we manufacture are also typically complex, highly regulated, and require complicated configuration management and direct order fulfillment capabilities to global end customers. Relative to many of our competitors that manufacture more standardized products with larger production runs, our business model requires a greater degree of attention and resources, including working capital, management and technical personnel, and the development and maintenance of systems and procedures to manage diverse manufacturing, regulatory, and service requirements. If we fail to effectively manage our business model, we may lose customer confidence and our reputation may suffer, which could affect our operations and financial results on a going-forward basis. Challenges associated with the engagement of new customers or programs could affect our operations and financial results. Our engagement with new customers, as well as the addition of new work for existing customers, can present challenges in addition to opportunities. We need to ensure that our terms of engagement, including our pricing and other contractual provisions, appropriately reflect the anticipated costs, risks, and rewards of an opportunity. The failure to establish appropriate terms of engagement could adversely affect our profitability and margins. Also, there are inherent risks associated with the timing and ultimate realization of a new program’s anticipated revenue. Some new programs require us to devote significant capital and personnel resources to new technologies and competencies. We may not meet customer expectations, which could damage our relationships with the affected customers and impact our ability to deliver conforming product on a timely basis. Further, the success of new programs may depend heavily on factors such as product reliability, market acceptance, and/or regulatory approvals. The failure of a new program to meet expectations on these factors, or our inability to effectively execute on a new program’s requirements, could result in lost financial opportunities and adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing services involve inventory risk. Most of our contract manufacturing services are provided on a turnkey basis, under which we purchase some, or all, of the required raw materials and component parts. Excess or obsolete inventory could adversely affect our operating results. In our turnkey operations, we order materials and components based on customer forecasts and/or orders. Suppliers may require us to purchase materials and components in minimum order quantities that may exceed customer requirements. A customer’s cancellation, delay or reduction of forecasts or orders can also result in excess inventory or additional expense to us. Engineering changes by a customer may result in obsolete raw materials or component parts. While we attempt to cancel, return or otherwise mitigate excess and obsolete materials and components and require customers to reimburse us for excess and obsolete inventory, we may not actually be reimbursed timely or be able to collect on these obligations. In addition, we provide managed inventory programs for some of our customers under which we hold and manage finished goods or work-in-process inventories. These managed inventory programs result in higher inventory levels, further reduce our inventory turns and increase our financial exposure with such customers. Even though our customers generally have contractual obligations to purchase such inventories from us, we remain subject to the risk of enforcing those obligations. We may experience raw material and component parts shortages and price fluctuations. We do not have any long-term supply agreements. At various times, we have experienced raw material and component parts shortages due to supplier capacity constraints or their failure to deliver. At times, raw material and component parts shortages have been prevalent due to industry-wide conditions, and such shortages can be expected to recur from time to time. World events, such as foreign government policies, terrorism, armed conflict, economic 8 Table of Contents recession and epidemics, could also affect suppliers and supply chains. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for many of the raw materials and component parts used in the assembly process and, in some cases, may be required to use suppliers that are the sole provider of a particular raw material or component part. Such suppliers may encounter quality problems or financial difficulties which could preclude them from delivering raw materials or component parts timely or at all. Some suppliers have ceased doing business due to economic or other circumstances, and more may do so in the future. Supply shortages and delays in deliveries of raw materials or component parts have resulted in delayed production of assemblies, which have increased our inventory levels and adversely affected our operating results in certain periods. An inability to obtain sufficient inventory on a timely basis could also harm relationships with our customers. In addition, raw material and component parts that are delivered to us may not meet our specifications or other quality criteria. Certain materials provided to us may be counterfeit or violate the intellectual property rights of others. The need to obtain replacement materials and parts may negatively affect our manufacturing operations. The inadvertent use of any such parts or products may also give rise to liability claims. Raw material and component part supply shortages and delays in deliveries can also result in increased pricing. While many of our customers permit quarterly or other periodic adjustments to pricing based on changes in raw material or component part prices and other factors, we typically bear the risk of price increases that occur between any such repricing or, if such repricing is not permitted, during the balance of the term of the particular customer contract. Conversely, raw material and component part price reductions have contributed positively to our operating results in the past. Our inability to continue to benefit from such reductions in the future could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to manage periods of growth or contraction, if any, may seriously harm our business. Our industry frequently sees periods of expansion and contraction to adjust to customers’ needs and market demands. Plexus regularly contends with these issues and must carefully manage its business to meet customer and market requirements. If we fail to manage these growth and contraction decisions effectively, we can find ourselves with either excess or insufficient resources and our business, as well as our profitability, may suffer. Expansion can inherently include additional costs and start-up inefficiencies. We recently expanded in China (Hangzhou), Wisconsin (Appleton) and Romania (Oradea). If we are unable to effectively manage our currently anticipated growth, or related anticipated net sales are not realized, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may expand our operations in new geographical areas where currently we do not operate. Other risks of current or future expansion include: • the inability to successfully integrate additional facilities or incremental capacity and to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value • additional fixed costs which may not be fully absorbed by new business • difficulties in the timing of expansions, including delays in the implementation of construction and manufacturing plans • diversion of management’s attention from other business areas during the planning and implementation of expansions • strain placed on our operational, financial and other systems and resources and • inability to locate sufficient customers, employees or management talent to support the expansion. Periods of contraction or reduced net sales, or other factors affecting particular sites, create other challenges. We must determine whether facilities remain viable, whether staffing levels need to be reduced, and how to respond to changing levels of customer demand. While maintaining multiple facilities or higher levels of employment entail short-term costs, reductions in facilities and/or employment could impair our ability to respond to market improvements or to maintain customer relationships. Our decisions to reduce costs and capacity can affect our short-term and long-term results. When we make decisions to reduce capacity or to close facilities, we frequently incur restructuring charges. In addition, to meet our customers’ needs, or to achieve increased efficiencies, we sometimes require additional capacity in one location while reducing capacity in another. For example, in early fiscal 2009 we ceased operations at our former Ayer, Massachusetts facility and reduced headcount in Juarez, Mexico and other North American facilities, even though we continued to expand in other areas. Since customers’ needs and market conditions can vary and change rapidly, we may find ourselves in a situation where we simultaneously experience the effects of contraction in one location and expansion in another location, such as those noted above. 9 Table of Contents Plexus is a multinational corporation and operating in foreign countries exposes us to increased risks, including adverse local developments and foreign currency risks. We have operations in China, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania and the United Kingdom, which in the aggregate represented approximately 45 percent of our revenues for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2009. We also purchase a significant number of components manufactured in foreign countries. These international aspects of our operations subject us to the following risks that could materially impact our operations and operating results: • economic, political or civil instability, including significant drug cartel-related violence in Juarez, Mexico • transportation delays or interruptions • foreign exchange rate fluctuations • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign personnel in diverse cultures • compliance with laws, such as the Foreign Corporate Practices Act, applicable to U.S. companies doing business overseas • the effects of international political developments and • foreign regulatory requirements and potential changes to those requirements. We continue to monitor our risk associated with foreign currency translation and have entered into limited forward contracts to minimize this risk. As our foreign operations expand, our failure to adequately hedge foreign currency transactions and/or the currency exposures associated with assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, changes in policies by the U.S. or foreign governments could negatively affect our operating results due to changes in duties, tariffs, taxes or limitations on currency or fund transfers. For example, our facility in Mexico operates under the Mexican Maquiladora program, which provides for reduced tariffs and eased import regulations; we could be adversely affected by changes in that program or our failure to comply with its requirements. Also, our Malaysian and Xiamen, China subsidiaries currently receive favorable tax treatments from these governments that extend through 2019 and 2013, respectively, which may not be renewed. China and Mexico passed new tax laws that took effect on January 1, 2008. These laws did not materially impact our tax rates in fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2009, but may result in a higher effective tax rate on our operations in future periods. Finally, on November 1, 2009, Mexico adopted tax reform legislation which will take effect January 1, 2010, providing for a temporary increase in its income tax and value added tax rates from 28% to 30% and 15% to 16%, respectively, along with certain other changes. While we are still analyzing the impact of this legislation, we do not currently believe it will have a material impact on our effective income tax rate in future periods. Given the scope of our international operations and our foreign tax arrangements, proposed changes to the manner in which U.S. based multinational companies are taxed in the U.S. could have a material impact on our operating results and competitiveness. We and our customers are subject to extensive government regulations and third party certification requirements. We are subject to extensive government regulation relating to the products we design and manufacture and as to how we conduct our business. These regulations affect the sectors we serve and every aspect of our business, including our labor, employment, workplace safety, environmental and import/export practices, as well as many other facets of our operations. In addition, as a result of customer requirements and the need to enhance our competitive position, we seek to obtain and maintain various certifications from third parties relating to our quality systems and standards. Our failure to comply with these regulations and certifications could seriously affect our operations, customer relationships, reputation and profitability. Our medical sector business is subject to substantial government regulation, primarily from the federal Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. We must comply with statutes and regulations covering the design, development, testing, manufacturing and labeling of medical devices and the reporting of certain information regarding their safety. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, recall or seizure of devices, or total or partial suspension of production. The FDA also has the authority to require repair or replacement of equipment, or the refund of the cost of a device manufactured or distributed by our customers. Violations may lead to penalties or shutdowns of a program or a facility. Failure or noncompliance could have an adverse effect on our reputation as well as our results of operations. In addition, government reimbursement rates and other regulations, as well as the financial health of health care providers, and proposed changes in how health care in the U.S. is structured, could affect the willingness and ability of end customers to purchase the products of our customers in the medical sector. 10 Table of Contents We also design and manufacture products for customers in the defense and aerospace industries. Companies that design and manufacture products for these industries face significant regulation by the Department of Defense, Department of State, Federal Aviation Authority, and other governmental agencies in the U.S. as well as in other countries. Failure to comply with those requirements could result in fines, penalties, injunctions, criminal prosecution, and an inability to participate in contracts with the government or their contractors, any of which could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. The end-markets for most of our customers in the wireline/networking and wireless infrastructure sectors are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, as well as by various state and foreign government agencies. The policies of these agencies can directly affect both the near-term and long-term demand and profitability of the sector and therefore directly impact the demand for products that we manufacture. At the corporate level, as a publicly-held company, we are subject to increasingly stringent laws, regulation and other requirements affecting among other things our accounting, corporate governance practices, and securities disclosures. Our failure to comply with these requirements could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. The growth and changing requirements of our business are imposing a heightened level of activity involving import and export compliance requirements on us. We were notified in April 2009 by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) of its intention to conduct a customary Focused Assessment audit of our import activities during fiscal 2008 and of our processes and procedures to comply with U.S. Customs laws and regulations. As a result of an initial review by CBP of our import activities and controls, CBP has issued a Pre-Assessment Survey report stating, in its opinion, that Plexus’ processes and procedures do not provide reasonable assurance of compliance with U.S. Customs laws. By June 2010, Plexus has committed to CBP that it will report any errors, and tender any associated duties and fees, relating to tariff classification, valuation, antidumping duties, and North American Free Trade Agreement non-compliance. Plexus has also agreed that it will implement improved processes and procedures in areas where errors are found and review these corrective measures with CBP. After Plexus has reported any errors and implemented improved processes and controls, CBP will audit Plexus’ findings and improvement measures for correctness and effectiveness. If CBP is not satisfied in their audit, CBP may choose to perform an intensive Focused Assessment of Plexus importing activity. We do not know whether deficiencies in processes or controls, or unanticipated costs, unpaid duties or penalties associated with this matter, will have a material adverse effect on Plexus or our results of operations. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local environmental regulations pertaining to air, water, and hazardous waste and the health and safety of our workplace. If we fail to comply with present and future regulations, we could be subject to liabilities or the suspension of business. These regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly equipment or incur significant expense associated with the ongoing operation of our business or remediation efforts. Our customers are also required to comply with various government regulations, legal requirements, and certification requirements, including many of the industry-specific regulations discussed above. Our customers’ failure to comply could affect their businesses, which in turn would affect our sales to them. In addition, if our customers are required by regulation or other requirements to make changes in their product lines, these changes could significantly disrupt particular projects for these customers and create inefficiencies in our business. If we are unable to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise, our results may be adversely affected. The markets for our manufacturing, engineering and other services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process developments. Our internal processes are also subject to these factors. The continued success of our business will depend upon our continued ability to: • retain our qualified engineering and technical personnel • maintain and enhance our technological capabilities • choose and maintain appropriate technological and service capabilities • successfully manage the implementation and execution of information systems • develop and market manufacturing services which meet changing customer needs and • successfully anticipate, or respond to, technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Although we believe that our operations utilize the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology, industry standards or customer 11 Table of Contents requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new design, assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment that could reduce our liquidity and negatively affect our operating results. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ changing technological needs and requirements could have an adverse effect on our business. An inability to successfully manage the procurement, development, implementation, or execution of information systems may adversely affect our business. As a global company with a complex business model, we heavily depend on our information systems to support our customers’ requirements and to successfully manage our business. Any inability to successfully manage the procurement, development, implementation, or execution of our information systems, including matters related to system security, reliability, performance and access, as well as any inability of these systems to fulfill their intended purpose within our business, could have an adverse effect on our business. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs can adversely affect our operating results. The management of labor and production capacity in connection with the establishment of new programs and new customer relationships, such as our recently announced arrangements with The Coca-Cola Company, and the need to estimate required resources in advance of production can adversely affect our gross and operating margins. These factors are particularly evident in the early stages of the life-cycle of new products and new programs, which lack a track record or order volume and timing, as well as in program transfers between facilities. We are managing a number of new programs at any given time. Consequently, we are exposed to these factors. In addition, if any of these new programs or new customer relationships were terminated, our operating results could worsen, particularly in the short term. The effects of these start-up costs and inefficiencies can also occur when we transfer programs between locations. We conduct these transfers on a regular basis to address factors such as meeting customer needs, seeking long-term efficiencies or responding to market conditions, as well as due to facility closures. Although we try to minimize the potential losses arising from transitioning customer programs between Plexus facilities, there are inherent risks that such transitions can result in operational inefficiencies and the disruption of programs and customer relationships. There may be problems with the products we design or manufacture that could result in liability claims against us and reduced demand for our services. The products that we design and/or manufacture may be subject to liability or claims in the event that defects are discovered or alleged. We design and manufacture products to our customers’ specifications, many of which are highly complex. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, problems may occur, or may be alleged, in the design and/or manufacturing of these products. Problems in the products we manufacture, whether real or alleged, whether caused by faulty customer specifications or in the design or manufacturing processes or by a component defect, and whether or not we are responsible, may result in delayed shipments to customers and/or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these problems were to occur in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may also be tarnished. In addition, problems may result in liability claims against us, whether or not we are responsible. These potential claims may include damages for the recall of a product and/or injury to person or property. Even if customers or third parties, such as component suppliers, are responsible for defects, they may not, or may not be able to, assume responsibility for any such costs or required payments to us. While we seek to insure against many of these risks, insurance coverage may be either inadequate or unavailable, either in general or for particular types of products. We occasionally incur costs defending claims, and any such disputes could affect our business relationships. Intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business. Our design and manufacturing services and the products offered by our customers involve the creation and use of intellectual property rights, which subject us and our customers to the risk of claims of intellectual property infringement from third parties. In addition, our customers may require that we indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or our customers for infringement, whether or not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of those claims. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing alternatives or obtaining licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Infringement by our customers could cause them to discontinue production of some of their products, potentially with little or no notice, which may reduce our net sales to them and disrupt our production. 12 Table of Contents Additionally, if third parties on whom we rely for products or services, such as component suppliers, are responsible for an infringement (including through the supply of counterfeit parts), we may or may not be able to hold them responsible and we may incur costs in defending claims or providing remedies. Such infringements may also cause our customers to abruptly discontinue selling the impacted products, which would adversely affect our net sales of those products, and could affect our customer relationships more broadly. Similarly, claims affecting our suppliers could cause those suppliers to discontinue selling materials and components upon which we rely. Our products are for end markets that require technologically advanced products with relatively short life-cycles. Factors affecting the technology-dependent end markets that we serve, in particular short product life-cycles, could seriously affect our customers and, as a result, Plexus. These factors include: • the inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards that result in short product life-cycles • the inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested and • the potential that our customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance. Even if our customers successfully respond to these market challenges, their responses, including any consequential changes we must make in our business relationships with them and our production for them, can affect our production cycles, inventory management and results of operations. Increased competition may result in reduced demand or reduced prices for our services. The EMS industry is highly competitive and has become more so as a result of excess capacity in the industry. We compete against numerous U.S. and foreign EMS providers with global operations, as well as those which operate on only a local or regional basis. In addition, current and prospective customers continually evaluate the merits of manufacturing products internally and may choose to manufacture products themselves rather than outsource that process. Consolidations and other changes in the EMS industry result in a changing competitive landscape. Some of our competitors have substantially greater managerial, manufacturing, engineering, technical, financial, systems, sales and marketing resources than ourselves. These competitors may: • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies • have greater name recognition, critical mass and geographic and market presence • be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities • adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements • devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services and • be better positioned to compete on price for their services. We may operate at a cost disadvantage compared to other EMS providers that have lower internal cost structures or greater direct buying power with component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection, and companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or become increasingly competitive. Increased competition could result in significant price reductions, reduced sales and margins, or loss of market share. We depend on certain key personnel, and the loss of key personnel may harm our business. Our success depends in large part on the continued services of our key technical and management personnel, and on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the development of new products and processes and the manufacture of products. The competition for these individuals is significant, and the loss of key employees could harm our business. From time to time, there are changes and developments, such as retirements, disability, death and other terminations of service that affect our executive officers and other key employees. Transitions of responsibilities among officers and key employees, particularly those that are unplanned, inherently can cause disruptions to our business and operations, which could have an effect on our results. 13 Table of Contents Energy price increases may reduce our profits. We use some components made with petroleum-based materials. In addition, we use various energy sources transporting, producing and distributing products. Energy prices have recently been subject to volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation, production and transportation disruption, world events, and changes in governmental programs. Energy price increases raise both our material and operating costs. We may not be able to increase our prices enough to offset these increased costs. Increasing our prices also may reduce our level of future customer orders and profitability. Natural disasters, epidemics and other events outside our control, and the ineffective management of such events, may harm our business. Some of our facilities are located in areas that may be impacted by natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, water shortages, tsunamis and floods. All facilities are subject to other natural or man-made disasters such as fires, acts of terrorism, failures of utilities and epidemics such as H1N1 (“swine flu”). If such an event were to occur, our business could be harmed due to the event itself or due to our inability to effectively manage the effects of the particular event; potential harms include the loss of business continuity, the loss of business data, and damage to infrastructure. Cases of H1N1 have been reported worldwide. To the best of our knowledge, thus far H1N1 has not materially affected our operations nor have we experienced a related disruption in our supply chain or customer orders. However, our production could be severely impacted if our employees, or the regions in which our facilities are located, are affected by a significant outbreak of H1N1 or any other disease or epidemic. For example, a facility could be closed by government authorities for a sustained period of time, some or all of our workforce could be unavailable due to quarantine, fear of catching the disease or other factors, and local, national or international transportation or other infrastructure could be affected, leading to delays or loss of production. In addition, these factors could also impact our suppliers, leading to a shortage of components, or our customers, leading to a reduction in their demand for our services. In addition, some of our facilities possess certifications necessary to work on specialized products that our other locations lack. If work is disrupted at one of these facilities, it may be impractical or we may be unable to transfer such specialized work to another facility without significant costs and delays. Thus, any disruption in operations at a facility possessing specialized certifications could adversely affect our ability to provide products and services to our customers, and thus negatively affect our relationships and financial results. We may fail to successfully complete future acquisitions and may not successfully integrate acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our operating results. We have previously grown, in part, through acquisitions. If we were to pursue future growth through acquisitions, this would involve significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on us. These risks include: Operating risks, such as: • the inability to integrate successfully our acquired operations’ businesses, systems and personnel • the inability to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value • the difficulties in scaling up production and coordinating management of operations at new sites • the strain placed on our personnel, systems and resources • the possible modification or termination of an acquired business’ customer programs, including the loss of customers and the cancellation of current or anticipated programs and • the loss of key employees of acquired businesses. Financial risks, such as: • the use of cash resources, or incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense • the dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities • the inability to achieve expected operating margins to offset the increased fixed costs associated with acquisitions, and/or inability to increase margins of acquired businesses to our desired levels • the incurrence of large write-offs or write-downs • the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and • the unforeseen liabilities of the acquired businesses. 14 Table of Contents We may fail to secure or maintain necessary financing. Under our credit facility, we have borrowed $150 million in term loans and can borrow up to $200 million in revolving loans of which $100 million is currently available, depending upon compliance with its defined covenants and conditions. However, we cannot be certain that the credit facility will provide all of the financing capacity that we will need in the future or that we will be able to change the credit facility or revise covenants, if necessary or appropriate in the future, to accommodate changes or developments in our business and operations. In addition, as a consequence of the turmoil in the global financial markets and banking systems, it is possible that counterparties to our financial agreements, including our credit agreement and our interest rate swap agreements, may not be willing or able to meet their obligations. Our future success may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing and capital to support possible future growth and future initiatives. We may seek to raise capital by issuing additional common stock, other equity securities or debt securities, modifying our existing credit facilities or obtaining new credit facilities or a combination of these methods. We may not be able to obtain capital when we want or need it, and capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we issue additional equity securities or convertible securities to raise capital, it may be dilutive to shareholders’ ownership interests. Furthermore, any additional financing may have terms and conditions that adversely affect our business, such as restrictive financial or operating covenants, and our ability to meet any financing covenants will largely depend on our financial performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a reduction in the value of our common stock. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K; that report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing our comprehensive efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could lead to a failure to meet our reporting obligations to the SEC, which in turn could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated significantly in recent periods. The price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors relating to us, our competitors and the market for our services, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and share prices for technology companies in particular, have from time to time experienced extreme volatility, including weakness, that sometimes has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, and concerns affecting the economy generally, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Among other things, volatility and weakness in our stock price could mean that investors may not be able to sell their shares at or above the prices that they paid. Volatility and weakness could also impair our ability in the future to offer common stock or convertible securities as a source of additional capital and/or as consideration in the acquisition of other businesses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 