ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our net sales and operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Our quarterly and annual results may vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the volume and timing of customer orders relative to our capacity • the typical short life-cycle of our customers’ products • customers’ operating results and business conditions • changes in our customers’ sales mix • failures of our customers to pay amounts due to us • volatility of customer orders for certain programs and sectors • possible non-compliance with the statutes and regulations covering the design, development, testing, manufacturing and labeling of medical devices • the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future orders • our effectiveness in planning production and managing inventory, fixed assets and manufacturing processes • changes in cost and availability of labor and components and • changes in U.S. and global economic and political conditions and world events. The majority of our net sales come from a relatively small number of customers and a limited number of market sectors; if we lose any of these customers or there are problems in those market sectors, our net sales and operating results could decline significantly. Net sales to our ten largest customers have represented a majority of our net sales in recent periods. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 60 percent, 61 percent and 59 percent of our net sales for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. For fiscal 2008 there was one customer that represented 10 percent or more of our net sales. For 2007 and 2006, there were two customers that represented 10 percent or more of our net sales. Our principal customers may vary from period to period, and our principal customers may not continue to purchase services from us at current levels, or at all. Significant reductions in net sales to any of these customers, or the loss of other major customers, could seriously harm our business. 6 In addition, we focus our net sales to customers in only a few market sectors. For example, net sales to customers in the wireline/networking sector recently have increased significantly in absolute dollars, making us more dependent upon the performance of that sector and the economic and business conditions that affect it. In addition, net sales in the defense/security/aerospace sector have become increasingly important in some periods; however, net sales in this sector are particularly susceptible to significant period-to-period variations. Any weakness in the market sectors in which our customers are concentrated could affect our business and results of operations. The global credit market crisis and economic weakness may adversely affect our earnings, liquidity and financial condition. Global financial and credit markets recently have been, and continue to be, extremely unstable and unpredictable. Worldwide economic conditions have been weak and may be further deteriorating. The instability of the markets and weakness of the economy could affect the demand for our customers’ products, the amount, timing and stability of their orders to us, the financial strength of our customers and suppliers, their ability or willingness to do business with us, our willingness to do business with them, and/or our suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us. These factors could adversely affect our operations, earnings and financial condition. In addition, continued, and potentially increased, volatility, instability and weakness in the financial and credit markets could affect our ability to sell our investment securities and other financial assets, which in turn could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We encountered a situation in which we were unable to make such sales as described below in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Auction Rate Securities.” This instability also could affect the prices at which we could make any such sales, which also could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. These conditions could also negatively affect our ability to secure funds or raise capital, if needed. Our customers do not make long-term commitments and may cancel or change their production requirements. EMS companies must respond quickly to the requirements of their customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers also cancel requirements, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons that are beyond our control. The success of our customers’ products in the market and the strength of the markets themselves affect our business. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer, or by a group of customers, could seriously harm our operating results. Such cancellations, reductions or delays have occurred and may continue to occur. In addition, we make significant decisions based on our estimates of customers’ requirements, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, facility requirements, personnel needs and other resource requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. Since many of our operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our operating results. Moreover, since our margins vary across customers and specific programs, a reduction in demand with higher margin customers or programs will have a more significant adverse effect on our operating results. Rapid increases in customer requirements may stress personnel and other capacity resources. We may not have sufficient resources at any given time to meet all of our customers’ demands or to meet the requirements of a specific program. Defense contracting can be subject to extensive procurement processes and other factors that can affect the timing and duration of contracts and orders. For example, defense orders are subject to continued Congressional appropriations for these programs, as well as continued determinations by the Department of Defense regarding whether to continue them. Products for the military are also subject to continued testing of their operations in the field and changing military operational needs, which could affect the possibility and timing of future orders. While those arrangements may result in a significant amount of net sales in a short period of time as happened in the first half of fiscal 2008, they may or may not result in continuing long-term projects or relationships. Even in the case of continuing long-term projects or relationships, orders in the defense sector can be episodic and vary significantly from period to period. 7 Our manufacturing services involve inventory risk. Most of our contract manufacturing services are provided on a turnkey basis, under which we purchase some, or all, of the required raw materials and component parts. Excess or obsolete inventory could adversely affect our operating results. In our turnkey operations, we order materials and components based on customer forecasts and/or orders. Suppliers may require us to purchase materials and components in minimum order quantities that may exceed customer requirements. A customer’s cancellation, delay or reduction of forecasts or orders can also result in excess inventory or additional expense to us. Engineering changes by a customer may result in obsolete raw materials or component parts. While we attempt to cancel, return or otherwise mitigate excess and obsolete materials and components and require customers to reimburse us for excess and obsolete inventory, we may not actually be reimbursed timely or be able to collect on these obligations. In addition, we provide managed inventory programs for some of our key customers under which we hold and manage finished goods or work-in-process inventories. These managed inventory programs result in higher inventory levels, further reduce our inventory turns and increase our financial exposure with such customers. Even though our customers generally have contractual obligations to purchase such inventories from us, we remain subject to the risk of enforcing those obligations. We may experience raw material and component parts shortages and price fluctuations. We do not have any long-term supply agreements. At various times, we have experienced raw material and component parts shortages due to supplier capacity constraints or their failure to deliver. At times, raw material and component parts shortages have been prevalent due to industry-wide conditions, and such shortages can be expected to recur from time to time. World events, such as foreign government policies, terrorism, armed conflict, economic recession and epidemics, could also affect supply chains. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for many of the raw materials and component parts used in the assembly process and, in some cases, may be required to use suppliers that are the sole provider of a particular raw material or component part. Such suppliers may encounter quality problems or financial difficulties which could preclude them from delivering raw materials or component parts timely or at all. Supply shortages and delays in deliveries of raw materials or component parts have resulted in delayed production of assemblies, which have increased our inventory levels and adversely affected our operating results in certain periods. An inability to obtain sufficient inventory on a timely basis could also harm relationships with our customers. Raw material and component part supply shortages and delays in deliveries have also resulted in increased pricing. While many of our customers permit quarterly or other periodic adjustments to pricing based on changes in raw material or component part prices and other factors, we typically bear the risk of price increases that occur between any such repricings or, if such repricing is not permitted, during the balance of the term of the particular customer contract. Conversely, raw material and component part price reductions have contributed positively to our operating results in the past. Our inability to continue to benefit from such reductions in the future could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to manage periods of growth or contraction, if any, may seriously harm our business. Our industry frequently sees periods of expansion and contraction to adjust to customers’ needs and market demands. Plexus regularly contends with these issues and must carefully manage its business to meet customer and market requirements. If we fail to manage these growth and contraction decisions effectively, we can find ourselves with either excess or insufficient resources and our business, as well as our profitability, may suffer. Expansion can inherently include additional costs and start-up inefficiencies. We are currently contemplating possible expansion of our operations to other countries. In fiscal 2007, we expanded our operations in Asia, including the addition of a third facility in Penang, Malaysia, as well as the doubling of capacity in our existing facility in Xiamen, China. We recently announced a planned expansion in Hangzhou, China. If we are unable to effectively manage our currently anticipated growth, or related anticipated net sales are not realized, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may expand our operations in new geographical areas where currently we do not operate. Other risks of current or future expansion include: • the inability to successfully integrate additional facilities or incremental capacity and to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value • additional fixed costs which may not be fully absorbed by new business 8 • difficulties in the timing of expansions, including delays in the implementation of construction and manufacturing plans • diversion of management’s attention from other business areas during the planning and implementation of expansions • strain placed on our operational, financial and other systems and resources and • inability to locate sufficient customers, employees or management talent to support the expansion. Periods of contraction or reduced net sales create other challenges. We must determine whether facilities remain viable, whether staffing levels need to be reduced, and how to respond to changing levels of customer demand. While maintaining multiple facilities or higher levels of employment entail short-term costs, reductions in facilities and/or employment could impair our ability to respond to market improvements or to maintain customer relationships. Our decisions to reduce costs and capacity can affect our short-term and long-term results. When we make decisions to reduce capacity or to close facilities, we frequently incur restructuring charges. In addition, to meet our customers’ needs, or to achieve increased efficiencies, we sometimes require additional capacity in one location while reducing capacity in another. For example, we recently announced that we would close our Ayer, Massachusetts facility in fiscal 2009, even though we are expanding in other areas. Since customers’ needs and market conditions can vary and change rapidly, we may find ourselves in a situation where we simultaneously experience the effects of contraction in one location and expansion in another location, such as those noted above. Operating in foreign countries exposes us to increased risks, including foreign currency risks. We have operations in China, Malaysia, Mexico and the United Kingdom, which in the aggregate represented approximately 39 percent of our revenues for fiscal 2008, compared to 37 percent of revenue in fiscal 2007. We have announced expansion plans in China and are considering expanding to additional countries. We also purchase a significant number of components manufactured in foreign countries. These international aspects of our operations subject us to the following risks that could materially impact our operating results: • economic, political or civil instability • transportation delays or interruptions • foreign exchange rate fluctuations • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign personnel in diverse cultures • the effects of international political developments and • foreign regulatory requirements. We do not generally “hedge” foreign currencies. As our foreign operations expand, our failure to adequately hedge foreign currency transactions and/or the currency exposures associated with assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, changes in policies by the U.S. or foreign governments could negatively affect our operating results due to changes in duties, tariffs, taxes or limitations on currency or fund transfers. For example, our facility in Mexico operates under the Mexican Maquiladora program, which provides for reduced tariffs and eased import regulations; we could be adversely affected by changes in that program or our failure to comply with its requirements. Also, our Malaysian and Chinese subsidiaries currently receive favorable tax treatments from these governments which extend for approximately 11 years and 5 years, respectively, which may not be extended. Finally, China and Mexico have passed new tax laws that took effect on January 1, 2008. These new laws did not materially impact our tax rates in fiscal 2008, but may result in higher tax rates on our operations in those countries in future periods. We and our customers are subject to extensive government regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation relating to the products we design and manufacture and as to how we conduct our business. These regulations affect the sectors we serve and every aspect of our business, including our labor, employment, workplace safety, environmental and import/export practices, and many other facets of our operations. Our failure to comply with these regulations could seriously affect our operations and profitability. Our medical sector business, which represented approximately 21 percent of our net sales for fiscal 2008, is subject to substantial government regulation, primarily from the federal Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and 9 similar regulatory bodies in other countries. We must comply with statutes and regulations covering the design, development, testing, manufacturing and labeling of medical devices and the reporting of certain information regarding their safety. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, recall or seizure of devices, or total or partial suspension of production. The FDA also has the authority to require repair or replacement of equipment, or the refund of the cost of a device manufactured or distributed by our customers. Violations may lead to penalties or shutdowns of a program or a facility. Failure or noncompliance could have an adverse effect on our reputation as well as our results of operations. We also design and manufacture products for customers in the defense and aerospace industries. Companies that design and manufacture products for these industries face significant regulation by the Department of Defense, Federal Aviation Authority, and other governmental agencies. Failure to comply with those requirements could result in fines, penalties, injunctions, criminal prosecution, and an inability to participate in contracts with the government or their contractors, any of which could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. The end-markets for most of our customers in the wireline/networking and wireless infrastructure sectors are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, as well as by various state and foreign government agencies. The policies of these agencies can directly affect both the near-term and long-term demand and profitability of the sector and therefore directly impact the demand for products that we manufacture. At the corporate level, as a publicly-held company, we are subject to increasingly stringent laws, regulation and other requirements affecting among other things our accounting, corporate governance practices, and securities disclosures. Our failure to comply with these requirements could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. The growth and changing requirements of our business are imposing on us heightened import and export compliance requirements. We have been notified that we are a potential candidate for audit by U.S. Customs. The timing and scope of this audit is uncertain. In preparation for a potential audit, we have reassessed internal policies, procedures and controls respecting import law compliance. We have uncovered some deficiencies during this assessment but do not yet know whether such deficiencies affected duties owed by us and, if so, whether they will have a material adverse effect on Plexus or our results of operations. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local environmental regulations pertaining to air, water, and hazardous waste and the health and safety of our workplace. If we fail to comply with present and future regulations, we could be subject to liabilities or the suspension of business. These regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly equipment or incur significant expense associated with the ongoing operation of our business or remediation efforts. Our customers are also required to comply with various government regulations and legal requirements, including many of the industry-specific regulations which we discuss above. Our customers’ failure to comply could affect their businesses, which in turn would affect our sales to them. The processes we engage in for these customers must comply with the relevant regulations. In addition, if our customers are required by regulation or other legal requirements to make changes in their product lines, these changes could significantly disrupt particular projects for these customers and create inefficiencies in our business. If we are unable to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise, our results may be adversely affected. The markets for our manufacturing and engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process developments. Our manufacturing and design processes are also subject to these factors. The continued success of our business will depend upon our continued ability to: • retain our qualified engineering and technical personnel • maintain and enhance our technological capabilities • successfully manage the implementation and execution of information systems • develop and market manufacturing services which meet changing customer needs and • successfully anticipate, or respond to, technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Although we believe that our operations utilize the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology, industry standards or customer 10 requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new design, assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment that could reduce our liquidity and negatively affect our operating results. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ changing technological needs and requirements could have an adverse effect on our business. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs can adversely affect our operating results. The management of labor and production capacity in connection with the establishment of new programs and new customer relationships, and the need to estimate required resources in advance of production can adversely affect our gross and operating margins. These factors are particularly evident in the early stages of the life-cycle of new products and new programs as well as in program transfers between facilities. We are managing a number of new programs at any given time. Consequently, we are exposed to these factors. In addition, if any of these new programs or new customer relationships were terminated, our operating results could worsen, particularly in the short term. The effects of these start-up costs and inefficiencies can also occur when we transfer programs between locations. We conduct those transfers on a regular basis to address factors such as meeting customer needs, seeking long-term efficiencies or responding to market conditions. As a result of our decision to close our Ayer, Massachusetts facility, we will also be transitioning customer programs from that site to other Plexus facilities. Although we try to minimize the potential losses arising from transitioning customer programs between Plexus facilities, there are inherent risks that such transitions can result in operational inefficiencies and the disruption of programs and customer relationships. There may be problems with the products we design or manufacture that could result in claims against us and reduced demand for our services. The products that we design and/or manufacture may be subject to liability or claims in the event that defects are discovered or alleged. We design and manufacture products to our customers’ specifications, many of which are highly complex. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, problems may occur, or may be alleged, in the design and/or manufacturing of these products. Problems in the products we manufacture, whether real or alleged, whether caused by faulty customer specifications or in the design or manufacturing processes or by a component defect, and whether or not we are responsible, may result in delayed shipments to customers and/or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these problems were to occur in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may also be tarnished. In addition, problems may result in liability claims against us, whether or not we are responsible. These potential claims may include damages for the recall of a product and/or injury to person or property. Even if customers or third parties, such as component suppliers, are responsible for defects, they may not, or may not be able to, assume responsibility for any such costs or required payments to us. We occasionally incur costs defending claims and any such disputes could affect our business relationships. Intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business. Our design and manufacturing services and the products offered by our customers involve the creation and use of intellectual property rights, which subject us and our customers to the risk of claims of intellectual property infringement from third parties. In addition, our customers may require that we indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or our customers for infringement, whether or not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of those claims. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing alternatives or obtaining licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Infringement by our customers could cause them to discontinue production of some of their products, potentially with little or no notice, which may reduce our net sales to them and disrupt our production. Additionally, if third parties on whom we rely for products or services, such as component suppliers, are responsible for an infringement (including through the supply of counterfeit parts), we may or may not be able to hold them responsible and we may incur costs in defending claims or providing remedies. Such infringements may also cause our customers to abruptly discontinue selling the impacted products, which would adversely affect our net sales of those products, and could affect our customer relationships more broadly. 11 We are defendants in a securities class action lawsuit. Two securities class action lawsuits were filed against us and several of our current or former officers and/or directors during June 2007. The two actions were consolidated, and a consolidated class action complaint was filed on February 1, 2008. Although the Company and the individual defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint, the plaintiff has asked the court to deny our motion and the court has not yet held a hearing or ruled on it. The consolidated complaint alleges securities law violations and seeks unspecified damages relating generally to the Company’s statements regarding its defense sector business in early calendar 2006. We could be subject to additional or related lawsuits or other inquiries in connection with this matter. The defense of this lawsuit, and any future lawsuits, could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention away from business operations and negative developments with respect to the lawsuits and the costs incurred defending ourselves could have an adverse impact on our business and our stock price. Adverse outcomes or settlements could also require us to pay damages or incur liability for other remedies that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our products are for the electronics industry, which produces technologically advanced products with relatively short life-cycles. Factors affecting the electronics industry, in particular short product life-cycles, could seriously affect our customers and, as a result, Plexus. These factors include: • the inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards that result in short product life-cycles • the inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested and • the potential that our customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance. Even if our customers successfully respond to these market challenges, their responses, including any consequential changes we must make in our business relationships with them and our production for them, can affect our production cycles, inventory management and results of operations. Increased competition may result in reduced demand or reduced prices for our services. The EMS industry is highly competitive and has become more so as a result of excess capacity in the industry. We compete against numerous U.S. and foreign EMS providers with global operations, as well as those which operate on only a local or regional basis. In addition, current and prospective customers continually evaluate the merits of manufacturing products internally and may choose to manufacture products themselves rather than outsource that process. Consolidations and other changes in the EMS industry result in a changing competitive landscape. The consolidation trend in the industry also results in larger and more geographically diverse competitors that may have significantly greater resources with which to compete against us. Some of our competitors have substantially greater managerial, manufacturing, engineering, technical, financial, systems, sales and marketing resources than ourselves. These competitors may: • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies • have greater name recognition, critical mass and geographic and market presence • be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities • adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements • devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services and • be better positioned to compete on price for their services. We may operate at a cost disadvantage compared to other EMS providers which have lower internal cost structures or have greater direct buying power with component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection, and companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or become increasingly competitive. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced sales and margins or loss of market share. 12 We depend on certain key personnel, and the loss of key personnel may harm our business. Our success depends in large part on the continued services of our key technical and management personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the development of new products and processes and the manufacture of existing products. The competition for these individuals is significant, and the loss of key employees could harm our business. From time to time, there are changes and developments, such as retirements, disability, death and other terminations of service that affect our executive officers and other key employees. Transitions of responsibilities among officers and key employees, particularly those that are unplanned, inherently can cause disruptions to our business and operations, which could have an effect on our results. Energy price increases may reduce our profits. We use some components made with petroleum-based materials. In addition, we use various energy sources transporting, producing and distributing products. Energy prices have recently been subject to increases and volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation, production and transportation disruption, world events, and changes in governmental programs. Energy price increases raise both our material and operating costs. We may not be able to increase our prices enough to offset these increased costs. Increasing our prices also may reduce our level of future customer orders and profitability. We may fail to successfully complete future acquisitions and may not successfully integrate acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our operating results. We have previously grown, in part, through acquisitions. If we were to pursue future growth through acquisitions, this would involve significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on us. These risks include: Operating risks, such as: • the inability to integrate successfully our acquired operations’ businesses and personnel • the inability to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value • the difficulties in scaling up production and coordinating management of operations at new sites • the strain placed on our personnel, systems and resources • the possible modification or termination of an acquired business’ customer programs, including the loss of customers and the cancellation of current or anticipated programs and • the loss of key employees of acquired businesses. Financial risks, such as: • the use of cash resources, or incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense • the dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities • the inability to achieve expected operating margins to offset the increased fixed costs associated with acquisitions, and/or inability to increase margins of acquired businesses to our desired levels • the incurrence of large write-offs or write-downs • the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and • the unforeseen liabilities of the acquired businesses. We may fail to secure or maintain necessary financing. Under our Amended Credit Facility, we have borrowed $150 million in term loans and can borrow up to $200 million in revolving loans of which $100 million is currently available, depending upon compliance with its defined covenants and conditions. However, we cannot be certain that the credit facility will provide all of the financing capacity that we will need in the future or that we will be able to change the credit facility or revise covenants, if necessary or appropriate in the future, to accommodate changes or developments in our business and operations. 13 Our future success may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing and capital to support possible future growth and future initiatives. We may seek to raise capital by issuing additional common stock, other equity securities or debt securities, modifying our existing credit facilities or obtaining new credit facilities or a combination of these methods. We may not be able to obtain capital when we want or need it, and capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we issue additional equity securities or convertible securities to raise capital, it may be dilutive to shareholders’ ownership interests. Furthermore, any additional financing may have terms and conditions that adversely affect our business, such as restrictive financial or operating covenants, and our ability to meet any financing covenants will largely depend on our financial performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a reduction in the value of our common stock. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K; that report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing our comprehensive efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could lead to a failure to meet our reporting obligations to the SEC, which in turn could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated significantly in recent periods. The price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors relating to us, our competitors and the market for our services, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and share prices for technology companies in particular, have from time to time experienced extreme volatility, including weakness, that sometimes has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, and concerns affecting the economy generally, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Among other things, volatility and weakness in our stock price could mean that investors may not be able to sell their shares at or above the prices that they paid. Volatility and weakness could also impair our ability in the future to offer common stock or convertible securities as a source of additional capital and/or as consideration in the acquisition of other businesses. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 14 