Risk Factors.” Employees At October 31, 2015, we had approximately 2,600 full and part time employees worldwide, including officers and administrative personnel. As of such date, we had three collective bargaining agreements covering 532 employees, which expire in March 2017, December 2018 and January 2020, respectively. While we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, a dispute between our employees and us could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. 9 Executive Officers of the Registrant At January 14, 2016, our executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position J. Brendan Barba 74 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Paul M. Feeney 73 Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer and Director John J. Powers 51 President, Chief Operating Officer and Director Paul C. Vegliante 50 Executive Vice President, Operations Robert W. Cron 68 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing Lawrence R. Noll 67 Vice President, Tax and Administration James B. Rafferty 63 Vice President and Treasurer Linda N. Guerrera 48 Vice President and Controller J. Brendan Barba is one of our founders and has been our Chief Executive Officer and a director since our inception in January 1970. In 1985, Mr. Barba also became the Chairman of the Board of Directors. From 1970 to November 2015, he served as President. Paul M. Feeney has been our Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer and a director since December 1988. From 1980 to 1988, Mr. Feeney was Vice President and Treasurer of Witco Corporation. John J. Powers has been our Chief Operating Officer and President since November 2015 and a director since November 2013. Previously, he served the Company as Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing (March 1996-November 2015), Vice President, Custom Film Division (1993-1996) and various sales positions (1989-1993). Paul C. Vegliante has been our Executive Vice President, Operations since December 1999. Prior thereto, he was our Vice President, Operations since June 1997 and held various other positions with us since 1994. Robert W. Cron has been our Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing since November 2015. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President of National Accounts (2001-2015), Vice President Industrial Division (1996-2001), Executive Vice President Sales (1989-1996) and various other sales positions since 1970. Lawrence R. Noll has been our Vice President, Tax and Administration since April 2007. Previously, he served as Vice President, Controller and Secretary (2005-2007), Vice President and Controller (1996-2005), Secretary (1993-1998), Vice President, Finance (1993-1996), and Controller (1980-1993). He also served as a director of the Company from 1993 to 2004 and from February 2005 to November 2013. James B. Rafferty has been our Vice President and Treasurer since November 1996. Previously, he served as Secretary (April 2007-June 2011) and Assistant Treasurer (July 1996-November 1996). From 1989 to 1995, Mr. Rafferty was Director of Treasury Operations at Borden, Inc. Linda N. Guerrera has been our Vice President and Controller since April 2007. Previously, she was our Director of Financial Reporting (September 2006-April 2007) and our Assistant Controller—International Operations (October 1996-September 2006). Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Guerrera was a manager at Arthur Andersen LLP in New York City. Certain family relationships exist between our directors and executive officers: Messrs. Powers and Vegliante are the sons-in-law of Mr. Barba; Mr. Cron is the first cousin of Mr. Barba and Ms. Guerrera is the daughter-in-law of Mr. Feeney. 10 Available Information Our Internet address is www.aepinc.com. In the “Investor Relations” section of our website, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and our proxy statement on Schedule 14A related to our annual stockholders’ meeting. All such filings are available in the Investor Relations section of our web- site free of charge. Copies of any of the above-referenced information will also be made available, free of charge, by calling (201) 641-6600 or upon written request to: Corporate Secretary, AEP Industries, Inc., 95 Chestnut Ridge Road, Montvale, NJ 07645. The content on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any amendments or updates reflected in subsequent filings with the SEC. We believe these risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and could materially and adversely affect our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. Industry Risks Our business is dependent on the price and availability of resin, our principal raw material, and our ability to manage resin price volatility and resin availability. The primary raw materials that we use in our products are polyethylene (“PE”) and polyvinyl chloride (“PVC”) resins. Our ability to operate profitably is dependent, in a large part, on the markets for these resins. These resins are derived from petroleum and natural gas, and therefore prices of such resins fluctuate substantially as a result of changes in petroleum and natural gas prices, demand and the capacity of resin suppliers. Instability in the world markets for petroleum and natural gas could adversely affect the prices of our raw materials and their general availability. We have at times experienced significant fluctuations in resin prices and availability. Following an aggregate resin price increase of $0.23 per pound in fiscal 2013 and 2014, PE resin prices decreased a net $0.20 per pound during fiscal 2015. This significant volatility in resin prices within and between consecutive periods creates instability in customer purchasing and has materially impacted our pounds of product sold, revenue and profitability. During periods of resin price decreases, as occurred in fiscal 2015, we do not realize the full benefit of the price reduction in our margin. As resin prices decrease, certain customers, especially in our stretch product line, determine to keep their inventory levels as low as possible and delay purchases in anticipation of further price decreases. During periods of price increases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on resin price increases in full or on a timely basis, shorten the time lag in adjusting sell prices, win in a competitive bid process or have enough product to allocate to customers desiring to increase their inventory levels. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of the impact of resin costs on results of operations in fiscal 2015. Polyethylene resin is expected to undergo a major growth phase in the United States. According to Plastic News, 27 PE expansions have been announced for North America and are expected to add approximately 34 billion pounds of capacity by 2021, starting with 4 billion pounds in 2016. Availability of welders, pipefitters and other specialty labor and a variety of other reasons could delay the production of such new capacity, none of which we influence or control. If any such projects are significantly delayed or cancelled, we could have excess capacity and may not achieve our expected return on investment of our significant capital expenditures in the last four fiscal years. Further, excess 11 capacity in our industry could result in further pricing pressures in our industry that would have a material and adverse impact on our operations, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to maintain profitability during periods of resin price increases is heavily dependent upon our ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any price increases on a timely basis. Since resin costs fluctuate significantly, selling prices are determined generally as a “spread” over resin costs, usually expressed as cents per pound. The historical increases and decreases in resin costs have generally been reflected over a period of time in the sales prices of the products on a penny-for-penny basis. Assuming a constant volume of sales, an increase in resin costs would, therefore, result in increased sales revenues but lower gross profit as a percentage of sales or gross profit margin, while a decrease in resin costs would result in lower sales revenues with a higher gross profit margin. Further, the gap between the time at which an order is taken, resin is purchased, production occurs and shipment is made, has an impact on our financial results and our working capital needs. In periods of rising resin prices, this impact is generally negative to operating results and in periods of declining resin prices, the impact is generally positive to operating results. If there is overcapacity of, or significant competition of comparable quality in any specific product that we manufacture and sell, we frequently are not able to pass through the full amount of any cost increase and we may be required to participate in a re-bid process for future business. Intense competition in the flexible packaging markets may adversely affect our operating results. The business of supplying flexible plastic packaging products is extremely competitive and the general economic environment in recent years has only intensified an already competitive marketplace. The competition in our market is highly price sensitive; we also compete on the basis of quality, service, timely delivery and product differentiation, development and availability. We face intense competition from numerous private and public companies, including from local manufacturers that specialize in the extrusion of a limited group of products, which they market nationally, and a limited number of manufacturers of flexible packaging products that offer a broad range of products and maintain production and marketing facilities domestically and internationally. Certain of our competitors may have more efficient production facilities (including more advanced technologies), well-developed sales and marketing staffs and greater financial resources than we do. We believe that there are few barriers to entry into many of our product markets. Many of these competitors have also undertaken significant capital expenditures projects in recent years in anticipation of increased domestic resin production and lower supply costs. As a result, we may not achieve future anticipated benefits from resin supply changes to the same extent as some of our competitors. Further, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, competition from new manufacturers. When new manufacturers enter the market for a flexible plastic packaging product or existing manufacturers increase capacity, they frequently reduce prices to achieve increased market share. In addition, we compete with other packaging product manufacturers, many of which can offer consumers non-plastic packaging solutions. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do, and such competition can result in additional pricing pressures, reduced sales and lower margins. An increase in competition could result in material reductions in margins or loss of our market share, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have varied on focusing on maintaining margins which has negatively impacted sales volume, and focusing on maintaining market share, which has negatively affected margins. In addition, since we do not have long-term arrangements with many of our customers, these competitive factors could cause our customers to shift suppliers and/or products quickly. Further, we believe intense competition in the industry has precluded us from implementing non-resin price increases to counter rising costs in freight (carrier charges), utility, packaging and healthcare costs, which have negatively impacted our results in recent years. Certain consolidation of our customers has also resulted in customers having greater purchasing power. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the markets for our products or that competition will not intensify. 12 We are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations that govern our operations and that may result in potential liability. In addition, consumer preferences and ongoing health and safety studies on plastics and resins may adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations which govern: • discharges into the air and water; • the storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and waste; • the remediation of soil and ground water contaminated by petroleum products or hazardous substances or waste; and • the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require material expenditures by us. Actions by federal, state, local and foreign governments concerning environmental and health and safety matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of manufacturing our products. In addition, the nature of our current and former operations and the history of industrial uses at some of our manufacturing facilities expose us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental and worker health and safety matters. We may also be exposed to claims for violations of environmental laws and regulations by previous owners or operators of our property. Such liability may be imposed without regard to fault, and under certain circumstances, can be joint and several, resulting in one party being held responsible for the entire obligation. In addition, the presence of, or failure to remediate, hazardous substances or waste may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent any property or to use it as collateral for a loan. We also may be liable for costs relating to the investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous waste and substances from a disposal or treatment facility to which we or our predecessors sent waste or materials. We have limited insurance coverage for potential environmental liabilities associated with historic and current operations and we do not anticipate increasing such coverage in the future. We may also assume, or be deemed to assume, significant environmental liabilities in acquisitions. While we have not been required historically to make significant capital expenditures in order to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot predict with any certainty our future capital expenditure requirements because of continually changing compliance standards and environmental technology. Furthermore, violations or contaminated sites that we do not know about, including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, or at sites formerly owned or operated by us or our predecessors in connection with discontinued operations, could result in additional compliance or remediation costs or other liabilities, which could be material. Additionally, a decline in consumer preference for plastic products due to environmental considerations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a number of governmental authorities in the United States and abroad, have considered, or are expected to consider, legislation aimed at reducing the amount of plastic wastes disposed. Programs have included, for example, mandating certain rates of recycling and/or the use of recycled materials, imposing deposits or taxes on flexible plastic packaging material and requiring retailers or manufacturers to take back packaging used for their products. Governmental, as well as voluntary initiatives similarly aimed at reducing the level of plastic wastes, could reduce the demand for certain flexible plastic packaging, result in greater costs for flexible plastic packaging manufacturers or otherwise negatively impact our business. Some consumer products companies, including some of our customers, have responded to these initiatives and to perceived environmental concerns of consumers by using containers made in whole or in part of recycled plastic, which we do not manufacture. Future legislation and initiatives could adversely affect us in a manner that would be material. 13 Also, continuing studies of potential health and safety effects of various resins and plastics, including polyvinyl chlorides and other materials that we use in our products, are being conducted by industry groups, government agencies and others. The results of these studies, along with the development of any other new information, may adversely affect our ability to market and sell certain of our products or may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured by such products, any of which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. The Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) regulates the material content of direct-contact food and drug packages we manufacture pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Furthermore, some of our products are regulated by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”) pursuant to various federal laws, including the Consumer Product Safety Act and the Poison Prevention Packaging Act. Both the FDA and the CPSC can require the manufacturer of defective products to repurchase or recall these products and may also impose fines or penalties on the manufacturer. Similar laws exist in some states, cities and other countries in which we sell products. In addition, laws exist in certain states restricting the sale of packaging with certain levels of heavy metals and imposing fines and penalties for noncompliance. Although we use FDA-approved resins and pigments in our products that directly contact food and drug products and we believe our products are in material compliance with all applicable requirements, we remain subject to the risk that our products could be found not to be in compliance with these and other requirements. A recall of any of our products or any fines and penalties imposed in connection with non-compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our operations, results of operations and financial condition. Company Risks Disruptions in the global economic and financial market environment may have a negative effect on our business and operations. Our customers, distributors and suppliers represent a cross-section of the general economy and therefore we are significantly impacted by the global economic and financial markets. In recent years, we have lost volume due to foreign imports, customer bankruptcies and loss of bids due to pricing. Disruptions in the global economy and volatility in the financial markets could cause, among other things, lower levels of liquidity, increased borrowing rates, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, all of which may have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Customers, distributors and suppliers may be negatively affected by the ongoing impacts of the economic and financial market difficulties. Current or potential customers and suppliers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund purchases or may determine to reduce purchases, all of which could lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins and increased customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or may go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet consumer demand or affect our gross margins. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs associated with our operations, difficulties if we overstrained our resources, and our long-term business approach that necessitates we remain in position to respond when market conditions improve. Future weakness in the global economy could adversely affect our operations and financial condition in future periods. See “—Financial Risks” below for a discussion of additional risks to our liquidity resulting from the economic and financial market environment. The loss of a key supplier could lead to increased costs, lower profit margins and short-term production issues The majority of the resins purchased by us are purchased under supply contracts which are typically renewed annually. In fiscal 2015, we purchased approximately 27%, 22% and 16% of our 14 resin requirements from our three largest suppliers. Each of these suppliers produces resins in multiple locations, and should any one, or a combination of these locations fail to meet our needs, we believe sufficient capacity exists among our remaining contract holders, the open market and the secondary markets to supply any shortfall that may result. Nevertheless, it is not always possible to replace a specialty resin without a disruption in our operations and replacement of significant supply is often at higher prices, and such impact may materially and adversely harm our competitive position. We negotiate and award our supply contracts annually. The resin contracts generally serve to establish the basic terms and conditions between the parties, including rebates based on the volume of resin purchases, but do not bind us in a materially significant way. Should any of our existing relationships fail to bid or survive the bid process, the position previously enjoyed by that contract holder typically migrates to another supplier. While this process has served us well in the past, there is no guarantee that the future replacement of any supplier will always result in a more effective and efficient relationship in the future. We have limited contractual relationships with our customers and, as a result, our customers may unilaterally reduce the purchase of our products. The loss of several customers could, in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. A substantial portion of our business is in the merchant market, in which we do not have long-term contractual relationships with our customers. As a result, our customers may unilaterally reduce the purchase of our products or, in certain cases, terminate existing orders for which we may have incurred significant production costs. The loss of several customers could, in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Many of our larger packaging customers are multinational companies that purchase large quantities of packaging materials, some of whom have recently consolidated. Many of these companies are purchasers with centralized procurement departments. They generally enter into supply arrangements through a tender process of soliciting bids from several potential suppliers and selecting the winning bid based on several attributes, including price and service. The significant negotiating leverage possessed by many of our customers and potential customers limits our ability to negotiate supply arrangements with favorable terms and creates pricing pressure, reducing margins industry wide. In addition, our customers may vary their order levels significantly from period to period, and customers may not continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. In the event we lose any of our larger customers, we may not be able to quickly replace that revenue source or replace with not as good pricing, which could harm our financial results. Loss of third-party transportation providers upon whom we depend or increases in fuel prices could increase our costs or cause a disruption in our operations. We depend generally upon third-party transportation providers for delivery of our products to our customers. Strikes, slowdowns, transportation disruptions or other conditions in the transportation industry, including, but not limited to, shortages of truck drivers, disruptions in rail service, decreases in the availability of vessels or increases in fuel prices, could increase our costs and disrupt our operations and our ability to service our customers on a timely basis. We may, from time to time, experience problems in our labor relations. Unions represent 532 employees, or 20% of our workforce, at October 31, 2015, under three collective bargaining agreements which expire in March 2017, December 2018 and January 2020, respectively. Although we believe that our present labor relations with our employees are satisfactory, our failure to renew these agreements on reasonable terms could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 15 We cannot assure you that our relations with the unionized portion of our workforce will remain positive or that such employees will not initiate a strike, work stoppage or slowdown in the future. In the event of such an action, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected and we cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately meet the needs of our customers using our remaining workforce. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not have similar actions with our non-unionized workforce or that our non-unionized workforce will not become unionized in the future. Acquisitions inherently involve significant risks and uncertainties. We continually review acquisition opportunities that will enhance our market position, expand our product lines and provide sufficient synergies. Any of the following risks associated with our past acquisitions or future acquisitions, individually or in aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or stock price: • difficulties in realizing anticipated financial or strategic benefits of such acquisition; • diversion of capital from other uses and potential dilution of stockholder ownership; • the risks related to increased indebtedness; • significant capital and other expenditures may be required to integrate the acquired business into our operations; • disruption of our ongoing business or the ongoing acquired business, including impairment of existing relationships with our employees, distributors, suppliers or customers or those of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention and other resources from current operations, including potential strain on financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • difficulty in integrating acquired operations, including restructuring and realigning activities, personnel, technologies and products, including the loss of key employees, distributors, suppliers or customers of acquired businesses; • inability to realize cost savings, sales increases or other benefits that we anticipate from such acquisitions, either as to amount or in the expected time frame; • the risks of managing new product lines or new business segments within the flexible plastic packaging films industry; • assumption of known and unknown liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to quantify; and • non-cash impairment charges or other accounting charges relating to the acquired assets. We are dependent on the management experience of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional personnel. Our future success depends to a large extent on the experience, business relationships and continued service of our key managerial employees, including J. Brendan Barba, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Paul M. Feeney, our Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, both of whom are also directors. Although the Company significantly benefits from the 72 years of combined service of Messrs. Barba and Feeney, any failure to ensure effective transfer of institutional knowledge and to implement a well-run succession plan could hinder our strategic planning and growth upon their termination of employment. We do not maintain key-person insurance for any of our officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract 16 additional qualified key employees in the future. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and the loss of such persons, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract and retain additional qualified employees. Our executive officers beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock and have significant influence over our business. At October 31, 2015, our executive officers beneficially owned 1,096,715 shares of our common stock, representing 21% of our outstanding shares as of such date. Their ownership and voting control, together with their duties as executive officers and directors, gives them significant influence on the outcome of corporate transactions or other matters submitted to the Board of Directors or stockholders for approval, including acquisitions, mergers, consolidations, substantial asset sales and director elections. Our business is subject to risks associated with manufacturing our own products. We internally manufacture our own products at our production facilities. While we maintain insurance covering our manufacturing and production facilities, including business interruption insurance, a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of our facilities due to accident, fire, explosion, labor or other employee issues, weather conditions, other natural disaster or otherwise, whether short or long-term, could have a material adverse effect on us. Unexpected failures of our equipment and machinery may result in production delays, loss of customers and revenues, reduced product quality, significant repair costs, injuries to our employees, and customer claims. Any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to offset the lost revenues or increased costs that we may experience during a disruption of our operations and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, the installation of new equipment and machinery is expensive and complex, may require various restructuring of existing facilities and the incapacity of certain manufacturing lines, and new equipment may not operate as anticipated. If there is a delay in installing new equipment or machinery, or new automation or other projects are unsuccessful, our operations or results of operations may be adversely impacted. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology networks and systems could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations, and reduce the benefits of our investment in cloud computing and other advanced technologies. We depend on information technology to record and process Company and customer transactions, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management, payroll and human resources, and financial reporting, including significant proprietary and sensitive data of the Company and our business partners and personally identifiable information of our employees. The Company’s information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, acts of sabotage, hardware failures, computer viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. Failure to effectively prevent, detect and recover from system failures, viruses, security breaches or other cyber incidents could significantly disrupt our operations, result in lost or misappropriated information, and adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to timely and accurately report financial results. Increasingly, we are relying on third parties to provide software, support and management with respect to a variety of business processes and activities as part of our information technology network, 17 and we are utilizing cloud computing through certain of our third-party vendors. The security and privacy measures we and our vendors implement are critical to our business, our key relationships, and compliance with applicable law. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers, natural disasters or catastrophic events, or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our networks and systems. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored therein could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations, and reduce the benefits of our investment in cloud computing and other advanced technologies. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all of the costs and liabilities related to significant security and privacy violations. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, including our unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, or in avoiding claims that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. In addition to relying on patent and trademark rights, we rely on unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, and employ various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants, customers and suppliers to protect our know-how and trade secrets. However, these methods and our patents and trademarks may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better production methods than us. Further, we may not be able to deter current and former employees, contractors and other parties from breaching confidentiality agreements and misappropriating proprietary information and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Additionally, we have licensed, and may license in the future, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and similar proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights are protected when entering into business relationships, third parties may take actions that could materially and adversely affect our rights or the value of our intellectual property, similar proprietary rights or reputation. In the future, we may also rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights, and, if not successful, we may not be able to protect the value of our intellectual property. Any litigation could be protracted and costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations regardless of its outcome. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, or license from third parties, patents, trademarks, trade secrets and similar proprietary rights without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Although we believe our intellectual property rights are sufficient to allow us to conduct our business without incurring liability to third parties, our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of such persons. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that we will not be subject to claims asserting the infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties seeking damages, the payment of royalties or licensing fees and/or injunctions against the sale of our products. Any such litigation could be protracted and costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. In each of fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, approximately 61% of our worldwide sales were directly to distributors. Using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk and compliance risks. Distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. We may rely on one or more key distributors for product sales, and the loss of these 18 distributors could reduce our revenues. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. Failing to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. Financial Risks Our debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. As of October 31, 2015, we had $213.4 million of total debt outstanding (including capital lease obligations of $9.6 million). Our debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby limiting our ability to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future. We are party to the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the “credit facility”), dated February 22, 2012, with Wells Fargo Bank National Association (“Wells Fargo”) and we also maintain a secured credit facility at our Canadian subsidiary, used to support operations, which is generally serviced by local cash flows from operations. As of October 31, 2015, we would have been permitted to borrow up to an additional $147.1 million under the credit facility (after taking into account $2.9 million of outstanding letters of credit) and $3.8 million under our credit line available to our Canadian subsidiary, in each case based on the respective available borrowing base. As of October 31, 2015, we had no borrowings under both of our credit facilities. In addition, the terms of the indenture that governs the senior notes do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from issuing and incurring additional debt upon satisfaction of certain conditions. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks described above that we and our subsidiaries face could intensify. To service our debt or redeem such debt upon a change of control, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our financial and operating performance. This, in part, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, forgo acquisition opportunities, obtain additional equity capital or indebtedness, or refinance or restructure our debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial cash flow problems and might be required to sell 19 material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We cannot assure you as to the timing of such sales or the proceeds that we could realize from such sales or if additional debt or equity financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A provision of the senior notes requires us, upon a change of control, to offer to purchase the outstanding senior notes. If a change of control were to occur and we could not obtain a waiver or if we do not have the funds to make the purchase, we would be in default under the senior notes, which could, in turn, cause any of our debt that contains a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision to become immediately due and payable. If our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would be able to repay it. We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities. Our credit facility and the indenture that governs the senior notes contain restrictive debt covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • borrow money; • pay dividends and make distributions; • issue stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments; • repurchase stock; • use assets as security in other transactions; • create liens; • enter into affiliate transactions; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer and sell assets. Our agreement relating to the credit line available to our Canadian subsidiary also contains certain of these restrictive debt covenants. These covenants could adversely limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet our capital needs and execute our business strategy. In addition, our credit facility also requires us to meet certain financial tests, and our agreement relating to the credit line available to our Canadian subsidiary requires it to meet certain financial tests. These restrictive covenants may limit our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Furthermore, any indebtedness that we incur in the future may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Our ability to comply with the restrictions contained in our credit facility, the senior notes indenture and the credit line available to our Canadian subsidiary may be affected by changes in our business condition or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. A failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under our credit facility, the senior notes indenture and the credit line available to our Canadian subsidiary, or any other subsequent financing agreement, which could, in turn, cause any of our debt that contains a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision to become immediately due and payable. If our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would be able to repay it. In addition, a default could give our lenders the right to terminate any commitments that they had made to provide us with additional funds. Further, the credit facility is secured by liens on most of our domestic assets (other than real property and equipment) and on 66% of our ownership interest in certain foreign subsidiaries and, in the event of a default thereunder, the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. 20 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated regularly and significantly in the past. The market price of our common stock will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • fluctuations in operating results, including as a result of changes in resin prices, LIFO reserve, and the other variables; • our liquidity needs and constraints; • the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and natural disasters or responses to such events; • announcements concerning our business or that of our competitors or customers; • acquisitions and divestitures; • the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • change in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stocks of other companies in our industry or failure of analysts to cover our common stock; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • sales of common stock by our employees, directors and executive officers; • prevailing interest rates; and • perceived dilution from stock issuances. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Although our common stock has had increased trading volume for periods of time in the last few years, our common stock generally has had a low trading volume historically, which could cause further volatility in the market price of our common stock. Shares of common stock eligible for future sale, and additional equity offerings by us, may adversely affect our common stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of additional shares of our common stock in the public market or in connection with future acquisitions, or the perception that such sales could occur. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities at a time and price favorable to us. As of October 31, 2015, under our certificate of incorporation, as amended, we are authorized to issue 30 million shares of common stock, of which 5.1 million shares of common stock were outstanding, 0.1 million shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of currently outstanding stock options and 0.2 million shares of 21 common stock were issuable upon the settlement of performance units if the performance unit holders elect settlement in stock. We may also decide to raise additional funds through public or private equity financing to fund our operations or for other business purposes. New issuances of equity securities would reduce your percentage ownership in us and the new equity securities could have rights and preferences with priority over those of our common stock. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. For example, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and seventh amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • requiring supermajority approval of stockholders for certain business combinations or an amendment to, or repeal of, the by-laws; • prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent without Board approval; • prohibiting stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • establishing a classified Board of Directors, which allows approximately one-third of our directors to be elected each year; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • permitting the Board of Directors to amend or repeal the by-laws; and • permitting the Board of Directors to designate one or more series of preferred stock. Further, on March 28, 2014, our Board adopted an amended and restated stockholder rights plan, which amended and restated in its entirety the prior three-year stockholder rights plan that was to expire on March 31, 2014. The amended and restated stockholder rights plan is designed to assure that all of our stockholders receive fair and equal treatment in the event of any proposed takeover of the Company and to guard against partial tender offers, open market accumulations and other abusive or coercive tactics without paying stockholders a control premium. The amended and restated stockholder rights plan may have anti-takeover effects by discouraging potential proxy contests and other takeover methods, particularly those that have not been negotiated with the Board, and the amended and restated stockholder rights plan may also inhibit the acquisition of a controlling position in our common stock. Therefore, transactions may not occur that stockholders would otherwise support and/or from which they would receive a substantial premium for their shares over the current market price. The amended and restated stockholder rights plan may also make it more difficult to remove members of the current Board or management. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in accordance with our restated certificate of incorporation, 30,000 of which is designated as Series A Preferred Stock in 22 connection with the amended and restated stockholder rights plan and none of which is issued and outstanding. Our Board of Directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited and we may change our dividend policy for common stock in the future at any time. Certain covenants in our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes limit our ability to pay dividends. If we are unable to satisfy the applicable covenants of such debt, we will not be able to pay dividends to the extent desired or at all. Our ability to pay dividends also is limited by Delaware law. Delaware law provides generally that a corporation only can pay a dividend from its surplus (generally its net assets less the aggregate par value of outstanding shares), and a corporation cannot pay a dividend if it would not be able to pay its debts as the debts become due in the usual course of business. We have no recent history of paying dividends and the decision to declare and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount, and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors. The Board’s determination will depend on our earnings, liquidity, financial condition, working capital requirements, capital expenditures, contractual prohibitions, other limitations under our indebtedness, our preferred shares, if any, Delaware law and such other factors as our Board deems relevant. Further, if we incur additional indebtedness in the future or otherwise take actions that reduce our funds available for the payment of dividends, our cash available to pay dividends may be limited or nothing. We may incur additional indebtedness to fund dividend payments, which could exacerbate the risks set forth above in “—Our debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.” Our actual dividend payable will be determined by our Board based upon the circumstances at the time of declaration. We do not guarantee that we will continue to pay dividends in the future at a specific amount or at all. Any change in our dividend policy could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 23 