ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our net sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly and annual results may vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the volume and timing of customer orders relative to our capacity • the typical short life-cycle of our customers’ products • customers’ operating results and business conditions • changes in our customers’ sales mix • failures of our customers to pay amounts due to us • volatility of customer orders for certain programs for the Defense sector • possible non-compliance with the statutes and regulations covering the design, development, testing, manufacturing and labeling of medical devices • the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future orders • our effectiveness in planning production and managing inventory, fixed assets and manufacturing processes • changes in cost and availability of labor and components and • changes in U.S. and global economic and political conditions and world events. The majority of our net sales come from a relatively small number of customers and a limited number of market sectors; if we lose any of these customers or there are problems in those market sectors, our net sales and operating results could decline significantly. Net sales to our ten largest customers have represented a majority of our net sales in recent periods. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 61 percent, 59 percent and 60 percent of our net sales for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, there were two customers, which represented 10 percent or more of our net sales. Our principal customers may vary from period to period, and our principal customers may not continue to purchase services from us at current levels, or at all. Significant reductions in net sales to any of these customers, or the loss of other major customers, could seriously harm our business. In addition, we focus our net sales to customers in only a few market sectors. For example, net sales to customers in the wireline/networking sector recently have increased significantly in absolute dollars, making us more dependent upon the performance of that sector and the economic and business conditions that affect it. In addition, net sales in the defense/security/aerospace sector have become increasingly important in some periods; however, net sales in this sector are particularly susceptible to significant period-to-period variations. Any weakness in the market sectors in which our customers are concentrated could affect our business and results of operations. Our customers do not make long-term commitments and may cancel or change their production requirements. EMS companies must respond quickly to the requirements of their customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers also cancel requirements, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons that are beyond our control. The success of our customers’ products in the market and the strength of the markets themselves affect our business. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer, or by a group of customers, could seriously harm our operating results. Such cancellations, reductions or delays have occurred and may continue to occur. In addition, we make significant decisions based on our estimates of customers’ requirements, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, facility requirements, personnel needs and other resource requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. Since many of our operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our operating results. Moreover, since our margins vary across customers and specific programs, a reduction in demand with higher margin customers or programs will have a more significant adverse effect on our operating results. 6 Table of Contents Rapid increases in customer requirements may stress personnel and other capacity resources. We may not have sufficient resources at any given time to meet all of our customers’ demands or to meet the requirements of a specific program. Our manufacturing services involve inventory risk. Most of our contract manufacturing services are provided on a turnkey basis, under which we purchase some, or all, of the required raw materials. Excess or obsolete inventory could adversely affect our operating results. In our turnkey operations, we order raw materials based on customer forecasts and/or orders. Suppliers may require us to purchase raw materials in minimum order quantities that may exceed customer requirements. A customer’s cancellation, delay or reduction of forecasts or orders can also result in excess inventory or additional expense to us. Engineering changes by a customer may result in obsolete raw material. While we attempt to cancel, return or otherwise mitigate excess and obsolete raw materials and require customers to reimburse us for excess and obsolete inventory, we may not actually be reimbursed timely or be able to collect on these obligations. In addition, we provide managed inventory programs for some of our key customers under which we hold and manage finished goods or work-in-process inventories. These managed inventory programs may result in higher inventory levels, further reduce our inventory turns and increase our financial exposure with such customers. Even though our customers generally have contractual obligations to purchase such inventories from us, we remain subject to the risk of enforcing those obligations. We may experience raw material shortages and price fluctuations. We do not have any long-term supply agreements. At various times, we have experienced component shortages due to supplier capacity constraints or their failure to deliver. At times, component shortages have been prevalent due to industry-wide conditions, and such shortages can be expected to recur from time to time. World events, such as foreign government policies, terrorism, armed conflict and epidemics, could also affect supply chains. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for many of the components used in the assembly process and, in some cases, may be required to use suppliers that are the sole provider. Such suppliers may encounter quality problems or financial difficulties which could preclude them from delivering components timely or at all. Supply shortages and delays in deliveries of components have resulted in delayed production of assemblies, which have increased our inventory levels and adversely affected our operating results. An inability to obtain sufficient components on a timely basis could also harm relationships with our customers. Component supply shortages and delays in deliveries have also resulted in increased component pricing. While many of our customers permit quarterly or other periodic adjustments to pricing based on changes in component prices and other factors, we typically bear the risk of component price increases that occur between any such repricings or, if such repricing is not permitted, during the balance of the term of the particular customer contract. Conversely, component price reductions have contributed positively to our operating results in the past. Our inability to continue to benefit from such reductions in the future could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to manage periods of growth or contraction, if any, may seriously harm our business. Our industry frequently sees periods of expansion and contraction to adjust to customers’ needs and market demands. Plexus regularly contends with these issues and must carefully manage its business to meet customer and market requirements. If we fail to manage these growth and contraction decisions effectively, we can find ourselves with either excess or insufficient capacity and our business and profitability may suffer. Expansion can inherently include additional costs and start-up inefficiencies. In fiscal 2007, we expanded our operations in Asia, including the recent addition of a third facility in Penang, Malaysia, as well as the doubling of capacity in our existing facility in Xiamen, China. If we are unable to effectively manage the currently anticipated growth, or the anticipated net sales are not realized, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may expand our operations in new geographical areas where currently we do not operate. Other risks of current or future expansion include: • the inability to successfully integrate additional facilities or incremental capacity and to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value • additional fixed costs which may not be fully absorbed by new business 7 Table of Contents • difficulties in the timing of expansions, including delays in the implementation of construction and manufacturing plans • diversion of management’s attention from other business areas during the planning and implementation of expansions • strain placed on our operational, financial, management, systems and other resources and • inability to locate sufficient customers, employees or management talent to support the expansion. Periods of contraction or reduced net sales create other challenges. We must determine whether facilities remain viable, whether staffing levels need to be reduced, and how to respond to changing levels of customer demand. While maintaining multiple facilities or higher levels of employment entail short-term costs, reductions in employment could impair our ability to respond to market improvements or to maintain customer relationships. Our decisions to reduce costs and capacity can affect our short-term and long-term results. When we make decisions to reduce capacity or to close facilities, we frequently incur restructuring charges. In addition, to meet our customers’ needs, or to achieve increased efficiencies, we sometimes require additional capacity in one location while reducing capacity in another. Since customers’ needs and market conditions can vary and change rapidly, we may find ourselves in a situation where we simultaneously experience the effects of contraction in one location and expansion in another location, such as those noted above. Operating in foreign countries exposes us to increased risks, including foreign currency risks. We have operations in China, Malaysia, Mexico and the United Kingdom, which generated 37 percent of our total net sales for fiscal 2007, a 3 percent increase over fiscal 2006. We also purchase a significant number of components manufactured in foreign countries. These international aspects of our operations subject us to the following risks that could materially impact our operating results: • economic or political instability • transportation delays or interruptions • foreign exchange rate fluctuations • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign personnel in diverse cultures • the effects of international political developments and • foreign regulatory requirements. We do not generally “hedge” foreign currencies. As our foreign operations expand, our failure to adequately hedge foreign currency transactions and/or the currency exposures associated with assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, changes in policies by the U.S. or foreign governments could negatively affect our operating results due to changes in duties, tariffs, taxes or limitations on currency or fund transfers. For example, our facility in Mexico operates under the Mexican Maquiladora program, which provides for reduced tariffs and eased import regulations; we could be adversely affected by changes in that program. Also, the Malaysian and Chinese subsidiaries currently receive favorable tax treatments from these governments which extend for approximately 12 years and 6 years, respectively, which may not be extended. Finally, China and Mexico have passed new tax laws which are expected to take effect on January 1, 2008. These new laws may result in higher tax rates on our operations in those countries. We and our customers are subject to extensive government regulations. Government regulation and procurement practices significantly affect both our operations and the market sectors in which our customers operate. These requirements can, in turn, affect our operations and costs. Failure by us or our customers to comply with these regulations and practices could seriously affect our operations and profitability. Extensive government regulation affects our operations. We are subject to extensive regulation as to how we conduct our business. These regulations affect every aspect of our business, including our labor, employment, workplace safety, environmental and import/export practices, as well as many other facets of our operations. At the corporate level, we are subject to increasingly stringent 8 Table of Contents regulation and requirements as a publicly-held company; recent accounting and corporate governance practices and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have led to more stringent securities regulation and disclosure requirements. We are also subject to environmental regulations relating to air emission standards and the use, storage, discharge, recycling and disposal of hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. If we fail to comply with present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of business. These regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly equipment or incur significant expense. While we are not currently aware of any material violations, we may have to spend funds to comply with present and future regulations or be required to perform site remediation. Government regulations also affect our customers and their industries, which could affect our net sales. In addition, our customers are also required to comply with various government regulations and legal requirements. Their failure to comply could affect their businesses, which in turn would affect our sales to them. The processes we engage in for these customers must comply with the relevant regulations. In addition, if our customers are required by regulation or other legal requirements to make changes in their product lines, these changes could significantly disrupt particular projects for these customers and create inefficiencies in our business. Some of the sectors in which our customers operate are subject to particularly stringent government regulation or are particularly affected by government practices. In those sectors, both our customers and ourselves need to assure compliance with those regulations, and failure to do so could affect both our business and profitability as more specifically discussed below. Medical – Our net sales to the medical sector, which represented approximately 24 percent of our net sales for fiscal 2007, is subject to substantial government regulation, primarily from the federal Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. We must comply with statutes and regulations covering the design, development, testing, manufacturing and labeling of medical devices and the reporting of certain information regarding their safety. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, recall or seizure of devices, or total or partial suspension of production. The FDA also has the authority to require repair or replacement of equipment, or refund of the cost of a device manufactured or distributed by our customers. Violations may lead to penalties or shutdowns of a program or a facility. Failure or noncompliance could have an adverse effect on our reputation as well as our net sales. Defense - In recent periods, our net sales to the defense/security/aerospace sector have significantly increased. Companies that design and manufacture for this sector face governmental, security and other requirements. Failure to comply with those requirements could materially affect their financial condition and results of operations. In addition, defense contracting can be subject to extensive procurement processes and other factors that can affect the timing and duration of contracts and orders. For example, defense orders are subject to continued Congressional appropriations for these programs, as well as continued determinations by the Department of Defense to continue them. Products for the military are also subject to continued testing of their operations in the field and changing military operational needs, which could affect the possibility and timing of future orders. While those arrangements may result in a significant amount of net sales in a short period of time as happened in the last two quarters of fiscal 2006, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, and that we currently anticipate occurring in the first two quarters of fiscal 2008, they may or may not result in continuing long-term relationships. Even in the case of continuing long-term relationships, orders in the defense sector can be episodic and vary significantly from period to period. Wireline/Wireless — The end-markets for most of our customers in the wireline/networking and wireless infrastructure sectors are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, as well as by various state and foreign government agencies. The policies of these agencies can directly affect both the near-term and long-term demand and profitability of the sector and therefore directly impact the demand for products that we manufacture. If we are unable to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise, our results may be adversely affected. The markets for our manufacturing and engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process developments. Our manufacturing and design processes are also subject to these factors. The continued success of our business will depend upon our continued ability to: 9 Table of Contents • retain our qualified engineering and technical personnel • maintain and enhance our technological capabilities • successfully manage the implementation and execution of information systems • develop and market manufacturing services which meet changing customer needs and • successfully anticipate, or respond to, technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Although we believe that our operations utilize the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology, industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new design, assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment that could reduce our liquidity and negatively affect our operating results. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ changing technological needs and requirements could have an adverse effect on our business. We are nearing completion of a multi-year project to install a common ERP platform and associated information systems at most of our manufacturing sites. As of September 29, 2007, facilities representing approximately 92 percent of our net sales are currently managed on the common ERP platform. In October 2007, we added our final manufacturing site to the common ERP platform. We plan to extend the common ERP platform to the engineering entities over the next year; however, the conversion timetable for the remaining Plexus entities and project scope are subject to change based upon our evolving needs. Any delay in the implementation or execution of the common ERP platform, as well as other information systems, could result in material adverse consequences, including disruption of operations, loss of information and unanticipated increases in expense. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs can adversely affect our operating results. The management of labor and production capacity in connection with the establishment of new programs and new customer relationships, and the need to estimate required resources in advance of production can adversely affect our gross margins and operating margins. These factors are particularly evident in the early stages of the life-cycle of new products and new programs or program transfers. We are managing a number of new programs at any given time. Consequently, we are exposed to these factors. In addition, if any of these new programs or new customer relationships were terminated, our operating results could worsen, particularly in the short term. The effects of these start-up costs and inefficiencies can also occur when we transfer programs between locations. Although we try to minimize the potential losses arising from transitioning customer programs between Plexus facilities, there are inherent risks that such transitions can result in operational inefficiencies and the disruption of programs and customer relationships. There may be problems with the products we design or manufacture that could result in liability claims against us and reduced demand for our services. The products which we design or manufacture may be subject to liability claims in the event that defects are discovered or alleged. We design and manufacture products to our customers’ highly complex specifications. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, problems may occur, or be alleged to have occurred, in the design and/or manufacturing of these products. Problems in the products we manufacture, whether real or alleged, whether caused by faulty customer specifications or in the design or manufacturing processes or by a component defect, and whether or not we are responsible, may result in delayed shipments to customers and/or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these problems were to occur in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may also be tarnished. In addition, problems may result in liability claims against us, whether or not we are responsible. Even if customers or third parties such as component suppliers are responsible for defects, they may not, or may not be able to, assume responsibility for any such costs or required payments to us. We occasionally incur costs defending claims, and disputes could affect our business relationships. Intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business. Our design and manufacturing services and the products offered by our customers involve the creation and use of intellectual property rights, which subject us and our customers to the risk of claims of intellectual property infringement from third parties. In addition, our customers may require that we indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or our customers for infringement, whether or 10 Table of Contents not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of those claims. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing alternatives or obtaining licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Infringement by our customers could cause them to discontinue production of some of their products, potentially with little or no notice, which may reduce our net sales to them and disrupt our production. Additionally, if third parties, such as component manufacturers, are responsible for the infringement, they may or may not have the resources to assume responsibility for any related costs or required payments to us, and we may incur costs defending claims. While third parties may be required to indemnify us against claims of intellectual property infringement, if those third parties are unwilling or unable to indemnify us, we may be exposed to additional costs. We are defendants in securities class action lawsuits. Two securities class action lawsuits were filed against us and several of our current or former officers and/or directors during June 2007. The lawsuits allege securities law violations and seek unspecified damages relating to our July 26, 2006 announcement of our fiscal fourth quarter earnings outlook and that our manufacturing facility in Maldon, England would be closed. We could be subject to additional or related lawsuits or other inquiries in connection with this matter. The defense of these lawsuits could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention away from business operations and negative developments with respect to the lawsuits and the costs incurred defending ourselves could have an adverse impact on our business and our stock price. Adverse outcomes or settlements could also require us to pay damages or incur liability for other remedies that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our products are for the electronics industry, which produces technologically advanced products with relatively short life-cycles. Factors affecting the electronics industry, in particular short product life-cycles, could seriously affect our customers and, as a result, ourselves. These factors include: • the inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards that result in short product life-cycles • the inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested and • the potential that our customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance. Even if our customers successfully respond to these market challenges, their responses, including any consequential changes we must make in our business relationships with them and our production for them, can affect our production cycles, inventory management and results of operations. Increased competition may result in reduced demand or reduced prices for our services. The EMS industry is highly competitive and has become more so as a result of excess capacity in the industry. We compete against numerous U.S. and foreign EMS providers with global operations, as well as those which operate on only a local or regional basis. In addition, current and prospective customers continually evaluate the merits of manufacturing products internally and may choose to manufacture products themselves rather than outsource that process. Consolidations and other changes in the EMS industry result in a changing competitive landscape. The consolidation trend in the industry also results in larger and more geographically diverse competitors that may have significantly greater resources with which to compete against us. Some of our competitors have substantially greater managerial, manufacturing, engineering, technical, financial, systems, sales and marketing resources than ourselves. These competitors may: • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies • have greater name recognition, critical mass and geographic and market presence • be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities • adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements • devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services and 11 Table of Contents • be better positioned to compete on price for their services. We may operate at a cost disadvantage compared to other EMS providers which have lower internal cost structures or have greater direct buying power with component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection, and companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or become increasingly competitive. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced sales and margins or loss of market share. We depend on certain key personnel, and the loss of key personnel may harm our business. Our success depends in large part on the continued services of our key technical and management personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the development of new products and processes and the manufacture of existing products. The competition for these individuals is significant, and the loss of key employees could harm our business. During fiscal 2007, our Chief Operating Officer passed away after an extended illness. Also in fiscal 2007, our Chief Financial Officer retired, consistent with a previously established succession plan for this position, and we designated several new executive officers. From time to time, there also are other changes and developments affecting our executive officers and other key employees. Transitions of responsibilities among officers and key employees inherently can cause disruptions to our business and operations, which could have an effect on our results. Energy price increases may reduce our profits. We use some components made with petroleum-based materials. In addition, we use various energy sources transporting, producing and distributing products. Energy prices have recently been subject to volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation, production and transportation disruption, world events, and changes in governmental programs. Energy price increases raise both our material and operating costs. We may not be able to increase our prices enough to offset these increased costs. Increasing our prices also may reduce our level of future customer orders and profitability. We may fail to successfully complete future acquisitions and may not successfully integrate acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our operating results. We have previously grown, in part, through acquisitions. If we were to pursue future growth through acquisitions, this would involve significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on us. These risks include: Operating risks, such as: • the inability to integrate successfully our acquired operations’ businesses and personnel • the inability to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value • the difficulties in scaling up production and coordinating management of operations at new sites • the strain placed on our personnel, systems and resources • the possible modification or termination of an acquired business’ customer programs, including the loss of customers and the cancellation of current or anticipated programs and • the loss of key employees of acquired businesses. Financial risks, such as: • the use of cash resources, or incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense • the dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities • the inability to achieve expected operating margins to offset the increased fixed costs associated with acquisitions, and/or inability to increase margins of acquired businesses to our desired levels • the incurrence of large write-offs or write-downs • the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and • the unforeseen liabilities of the acquired businesses. 12 Table of Contents We may fail to secure or maintain necessary financing. Our credit facility allows us to borrow up to $100 million depending upon compliance with its defined covenants and conditions. However, we cannot be certain that the credit facility will provide all of the financing capacity that we will need in the future or that we will be able to change the credit facility or revise covenants, if necessary or appropriate in the future, to accommodate changes or developments in our business and operations. Our future success may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing and capital to support possible future growth. We may seek to raise capital by issuing additional common stock, other equity securities or debt securities, modifying our existing credit facilities or obtaining new credit facilities or a combination of these methods. We may not be able to obtain capital when we want or need it, and capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we issue additional equity securities or convertible securities to raise capital, it may be dilutive to shareholders’ ownership interests. Furthermore, any additional financing may have terms and conditions that adversely affect our business, such as restrictive financial or operating covenants, and our ability to meet any financing covenants will largely depend on our financial performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a reduction in the value of our common stock. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K; that report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing our comprehensive efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could lead to a failure to meet our reporting obligations to the SEC, which in turn could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated significantly in recent periods. The price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors relating to us, our competitors and the market for our services, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and especially share prices for technology companies in particular, have from time to time experienced extreme volatility, including weakness, that sometimes has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Our stock price and the stock price of many other technology companies remain below their peaks. Among other things, volatility and weakness in our stock price could mean that investors may not be able to sell their shares at or above the prices that they paid. Volatility and weakness could also impair our ability in the future to offer common stock or convertible securities as a source of additional capital and/or as consideration in the acquisition of other businesses. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents 