ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any amendments or updates reflected in subsequent filings with the SEC. We believe these risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and could materially and adversely affect our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Further, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our results and business operations. Industry Risks Our business is dependent on the price and availability of resin, our principal raw material, and our ability to pass on resin price increases to our customers. The principal raw materials that we use in our products are polyethylene, polypropylene and polyvinyl chloride resins. Our ability to operate profitably is dependent, in a large part, on the markets for these resins. We use resins that are derived from petroleum and natural gas, and therefore prices of such resins fluctuate substantially as a result of changes in petroleum and natural gas prices, demand and the capacity of resin suppliers. Instability in the world markets for petroleum and natural gas could adversely affect the prices of our raw materials and their general availability. Over the past several years, we have at times experienced significant fluctuations in resin prices and availability. Our ability to maintain profitability is heavily dependent upon our ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any increase in raw material costs. Since resin costs fluctuate significantly, selling prices are generally determined as a “spread” over resin costs, usually expressed as cents per pound. The historical increases and decreases in resin costs have generally been reflected over a period of time in the sales prices of the products on a penny-for-penny basis. Assuming a constant volume of sales, an increase in resin costs would, therefore, result in increased sales revenues but lower gross profit as a percentage of sales or gross profit margin, while a decrease in resin costs would result in lower sales revenues with a higher gross profit margin. Further, the gap between the time at which an order is taken, resin is purchased, production occurs and shipment is made, has an impact on our financial results and our working capital needs. In a period of rising resin prices, this impact is generally negative to operating results and in periods of declining resin prices, the impact is generally positive to operating results. If there is overcapacity in the production of any specific product that we manufacture and sell, we frequently are not able to pass through the full amount of any cost increase. 11 Table of Contents Economic conditions in the United States during fiscal 2010 were difficult with global economic and financial markets experiencing substantial disruption, which also increased the difficulty in passing through the full amount of cost increases. If resin prices increase and we are not able to fully pass on the increases to our customers, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity will be adversely affected. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of the impact of resin costs on results of operations in fiscal 2010. Intense competition in the flexible packaging markets may adversely affect our operating results. The business of supplying plastic packaging products is extremely competitive. Lower volumes as a result of the current economic environment have intensified an already competitive marketplace. The competition in our market is highly price sensitive; we also compete on the basis of quality, service, timely delivery and differentiation of product properties. We face intense competition from numerous competitors, including from local manufacturers which specialize in the extrusion of a limited group of products, which they market nationally, and a limited number of manufacturers of flexible packaging products which offer a broad range of products and maintain production and marketing facilities domestically and internationally. Certain of our competitors may have extensive production facilities, well-developed sales and marketing staffs and greater financial resources than we do. We believe that there are few barriers to entry into many of our product markets. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, competition from new manufacturers. When new manufacturers enter the market for a plastic packaging product or existing manufacturers increase capacity, they frequently reduce prices to achieve increased market share. In addition, we compete with other packaging product manufacturers, many of which can offer consumers non-plastic packaging solutions. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and such competition can result in additional pricing pressures, reduced sales and lower margins. An increase in competition could result in material selling price reductions or loss of our market share, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the markets for our products or that competition will not intensify. We are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations which govern our operations and which may result in potential liability. In addition, consumer preferences and ongoing health and safety studies on plastics and resins may adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations which govern: • discharges into the air and water; • the storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; • the remediation of soil and ground water contaminated by petroleum products or hazardous substances or waste; and • the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require material expenditures by us. Actions by federal, state, local and foreign governments concerning environmental and health and safety matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of manufacturing our products. In addition, the nature of our current and former operations and the history of industrial uses at some of our manufacturing facilities expose us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental and worker health and safety matters. We may also be exposed to claims for violations of environmental laws and regulations by previous owners or operators of our property. Such liability may be imposed without regard to fault, and under certain circumstances, can be joint and several, resulting 12 Table of Contents in one party being held responsible for the entire obligation. In addition, the presence of, or failure to remediate, hazardous substances or waste may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent any property or to use it as collateral for a loan. We also may be liable for costs relating to the investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous waste and substances from a disposal or treatment facility to which we or our predecessors sent waste or materials. Additionally, a decline in consumer preference for plastic products due to environmental considerations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, continuing studies of potential health and safety effects of various resins and plastics, including polyvinyl chlorides and other materials that we use in our products, are being conducted by industry groups, government agencies and others. The results of these studies, along with the development of any other new information, may adversely affect our ability to market and sell certain of our products or may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured by such products, any of which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Company Risks The existing global economic and financial market environment has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The existing global economic and financial market environment has caused, among other things, lower levels of liquidity, increased borrowing rates, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our customers, distributors and suppliers have been severely affected by the ongoing impacts of the economic and financial market difficulties. Current or potential customers and suppliers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which has and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or may go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet consumer demand or affect our gross margins. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs associated with our operations, difficulties if we overstrained our resources, and our long-term business approach that necessitates we remain in position to respond when market conditions improve. There can be no assurance that market conditions will significantly improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. The foregoing conditions may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. See “—Financial Risks” below for a discussion of additional risks to our liquidity resulting from the current economic and financial market environment. The loss of a key supplier could lead to increased costs and lower profit margins. The majority of the resins purchased by the Company are purchased under supply contracts which are typically renewed annually. In fiscal 2010, the Company purchased approximately 30%, 28% and 21% of its resin requirements from its three largest suppliers. Each of these suppliers produce resins in multiple locations, and should any one, or a combination of these locations fail to meet the Company’s needs, the Company believes sufficient capacity exists among its remaining contract holders, the open market and the secondary markets to supply any shortfall that may result. Nevertheless, it is not always possible to replace a specialty resin without a disruption in our operations and replacement of significant supply is often at higher prices. 13 Table of Contents The Company negotiates and awards its supply contracts annually. The resin contracts generally serve to establish the basic terms and conditions between the parties, but do not bind us in a materially significant way. Should any of our existing relationships fail to bid or survive the bid process, the position previously enjoyed by that contract holder typically migrates to another supplier. While this process has served the Company well in the past, there is no guarantee that the future replacement of any supplier will always result in a more effective and efficient relationship in the future. We have limited contractual relationships with our customers and, as a result, our customers may unilaterally reduce the purchase of our products. A substantial portion of our business is in the merchant market, in which we do not have long-term contractual relationships with our customers. As a result, our customers may unilaterally reduce the purchase of our products or, in certain cases, terminate existing orders for which we may have incurred significant production costs. The loss of several customers could, in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Many of our larger packaging customers are multinational companies that purchase large quantities of packaging materials. Many of these companies are purchasers with centralized procurement departments. They generally enter into supply arrangements through a tender process that solicits bids from several potential suppliers and selects the winning bid based on several attributes, including price and service. The significant negotiating leverage possessed by many of our customers and potential customers limits our ability to negotiate supply arrangements with favorable terms and creates pricing pressure, reducing margins industry wide. In addition, our customers may vary their order levels significantly from period to period, and customers may not continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. In the event we lose any of our larger customers, we may not be able to quickly replace that revenue source, which could harm our financial results. Loss of third-party transportation providers upon whom we depend or increases in fuel prices could increase our costs or cause a disruption in our operations. We depend upon third-party transportation providers for delivery of our products to our customers. Strikes, slowdowns, transportation disruptions or other conditions in the transportation industry, including, but not limited to, shortages of truck drivers, disruptions in rail service, decreases in ship building or increases in fuel prices, could increase our costs and disrupt our operations and our ability to service our customers on a timely basis. We may, from time to time, experience problems in our labor relations. Unions represent 316 employees, or 16% of our workforce, at October 31, 2010, under three collective bargaining agreements which expire in March 2011, January 2013 and May 2013, respectively. Although we believe that our present labor relations with our employees are satisfactory, our failure to renew these agreements on reasonable terms could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We cannot assure you that our relations with the unionized portion of our workforce will remain positive or that such employees will not initiate a strike, work stoppage or slowdown in the future. In the event of such an action, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected and we cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately meet the needs of our customers using our remaining workforce. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not have similar actions with our non-unionized workforce or that our non-unionized workforce will not become unionized in the future. 14 Table of Contents We are dependent on the management experience of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional personnel. Our future success depends to a large extent on the experience and continued services of our key managerial employees, including J. Brendan Barba, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Paul M. Feeney, our Executive Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer. We do not maintain key-person insurance for any of our officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified key employees in the future. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and the loss of such persons, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract and retain additional qualified employees. Our executive officers beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock and have significant influence over our business. At October 31, 2010, our executive officers beneficially owned 1,313,746 shares of our common stock and have the right to acquire an additional 120,239 shares of our common stock. Their ownership and voting control over approximately 21% of our common stock, together with their duties as executive officers, gives them significant influence on the outcome of corporate transactions or other matters submitted to the Board of Directors or stockholders for approval, including acquisitions, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Our business is subject to risks associated with manufacturing processes. We internally manufacture our own products at our production facilities. While we maintain insurance covering our manufacturing and production facilities, including business interruption insurance, a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of our facilities due to accident, fire, explosion, labor issues, weather conditions, other natural disaster or otherwise, whether short or long-term, could have a material adverse effect on us. Unexpected failures of our equipment and machinery may result in production delays, revenue loss and significant repair costs, injuries to our employees, and customer claims. Any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could have a negative impact on our profitability and cash flows. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to offset the lost revenues or increased costs that we may experience during a disruption of our operations. Failure to successfully implement a new core operating system may adversely affect our business operations. We are currently and will continue to be highly dependent on automated systems to record and process Company and customer transactions and certain other components of the Company’s financial statements. As of November 1, 2009, we began implementing the initial phase of a new integrated operating system to improve our ability to address the needs of our customers, as well as to create additional efficiencies and strengthen our internal control over our financial reporting. During fiscal 2010, we supplemented the automated internal controls with additional manual and analytical procedures with a focus on revenue completeness, billing accuracy and inventory valuation. During fiscal 2011, we will begin implementing the final phase of our new system, which is centered in our manufacturing facilities, and expected to be completed during fiscal 2012. We may not be able to successfully implement the final phase of the new system in an effective or timely manner or could fail to complete all necessary data reconciliation or other conversion controls when implementing the new system. In addition, we may incur significant increases in costs and encounter extensive delays in the implementation and rollout of the final phase of the new operating system. Failure to effectively implement our new operating system may adversely affect our operations as well as customer perceptions and our internal control over financial reporting. 15 Table of Contents Financial Risks Capital markets have experienced a significant period of dislocation and instability, which has had and could continue to have a negative impact on the availability and cost of capital. The recent disruptions in the U.S. capital markets have lowered the availability of capital and increased its cost. The impacts of these conditions could persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Limitations on available capital, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. In addition, the cost of debt financing, and other important financing terms, has been and may continue to be materially adversely impacted by these market conditions. To service our debt or redeem such debt upon a change of control, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our operating performance. This, in part, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, obtain additional equity capital or indebtedness, or refinance or restructure our debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial cash flow problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We cannot assure you as to the timing of such sales or the proceeds that we could realize from such sales or if additional debt or equity financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. As of October 31, 2010, we could have borrowed up to an additional $103.5 million under our U.S. credit facility and an additional $4.9 million under our Canadian credit facility. A provision of our senior notes requires us, upon a change of control, to offer to purchase the outstanding senior notes. If a change of control were to occur and we could not obtain a waiver or if we do not have the funds to make the purchase, we would be in default under the senior notes, which could, in turn, cause any of our debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies to become immediately due and payable. If our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would be able to repay it. We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants which may restrict our business and financing activities. Our credit facility, the indenture relating to our senior notes and the agreements relating to the indebtedness of our subsidiaries contain restrictive debt covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • borrow money; • pay dividends and make distributions; • issue stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments; • repurchase stock; • use assets as security in other transactions; • create liens; 16 Table of Contents • enter into affiliate transactions; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer and sell assets. In addition, our credit facility and the agreements relating to the indebtedness of our subsidiaries also require us to maintain certain financial tests. These restrictive covenants may limit our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Furthermore, any indebtedness that we incur in the future may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Our ability to comply with the restrictions contained in our credit facility, our senior notes and the agreements relating to the indebtedness of our subsidiaries may be affected by changes in our business condition or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. A failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under our credit facility, our senior notes and the agreements relating to the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, or any other subsequent financing agreement, which could, in turn, cause any of our debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies to become immediately due and payable. If our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would be able to repay it. In addition, a default could give our lenders the right to terminate any commitments that they had made to provide us with additional funds. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated regularly in the past. The market price of our common stock will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • fluctuations in operating results, including as a result of changes in resin prices, LIFO reserve, and the other variables; • our liquidity needs and constraints; • the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and natural disasters or responses to such events; • announcements concerning our business or that of our competitors or customers; • acquisitions and divestitures; • the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • change in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stocks of other companies in our industry or failure of analysts to cover our common stock; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • sales of common stock by our employees, directors and executive officers; • prevailing interest rates; and • perceived dilution from stock issuances. 17 Table of Contents Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our common stock generally has had a low trading volume historically, which could limit trading and cause further volatility in our stock. Shares of common stock eligible for future sale, and additional equity offerings by us, may adversely affect our common stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of additional shares of our common stock in the public market or in connection with future acquisitions, or the perception that such sales could occur. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities at a time and price favorable to us. As of October 31, 2010 under our certificate of incorporation, as amended, we are authorized to issue 30 million shares of common stock, of which approximately 6.1 million shares of common stock were outstanding and approximately 0.2 million shares of common stock were issuable related to the exercise of currently outstanding stock options and 0.2 million shares of common stock were issuable related to settlement of performance units if the performance unit holders elected settlement in stock. We may also decide to raise additional funds through public or private equity financing to fund our operations or for other business purposes. New issuances of equity securities would reduce your percentage ownership in us and the new equity securities could have rights and preferences with priority over those of our common stock. Our stock repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. As of October 31, 2010, $4.9 million remains available under the current stock repurchase program. Repurchases may be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or by other means, from time to time, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, including the limitations set forth in the Company’s debt covenants. The program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at the Company’s discretion. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law imposes various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. For example, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and fifth amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • requiring supermajority approval of stockholders for certain business combinations or an amendment to, or repeal of, the by-laws; • prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent without board approval; • prohibiting stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; 18 Table of Contents • establishing a classified board of directors, which allows approximately one-third of our directors to be elected each year; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • permitting the board of directors to amend or repeal the by-laws; and • permitting the board of directors to designate one or more series of preferred stock. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue one million shares of preferred stock in accordance with our restated certificate of incorporation, none of which is issued and outstanding. Our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 