ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our net sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual results may vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the volume of customer orders relative to our capacity • the level and timing of customer orders, particularly in light of the fact that some of our customers determine whether or not to release a significant percentage of their orders during the last few weeks of a quarter • the typical short life-cycle of our customers’ products • market acceptance and demand for our customers’ products • customers’ announcements of operating results and business conditions • changes in the sales mix to our customers • business conditions in our customers’ industries • orders for certain programs for the Defense sector are volatile and depend on field trials, and continued authorization of the expenditures by Congress or foreign governments • the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future orders • our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes • changes in cost and availability of labor and components • local and regional events, such as holidays, that may affect our production levels and • changes in economic conditions and world events. The EMS industry is impacted by the state of the U.S. and global economies and world events. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy, or in particular in the industries served by us, may result in our customers reducing their forecasts. The demand for our services could weaken, which in turn would impact our sales, capacity utilization, margins and financial results. Historically, we have seen periods, such as in fiscal 2003 and 2002, when our sales were adversely affected by a slowdown in the wireline/networking and wireless infrastructure sectors, as a result of reduced end-market demand and reduced availability of capital to fund existing and emerging technologies. These factors substantially influence our net sales and margins. Net sales to customers in the wireline/networking sector have increased significantly in absolute dollars, making us more dependent upon the performance of that sector and the economic and business conditions that affect it. In addition, net sales in the defense/security/aerospace sector have become increasingly important; net sales in this sector are particularly susceptible to significant period-to-period variations. Our quarterly and annual results are affected by the level and timing of customer orders, fluctuations in material costs and availability, and the degree of capacity utilization in the manufacturing process. 5 Table of Contents The majority of our net sales come from a relatively small number of customers, and if we lose any of these customers, our sales and operating results could decline significantly. Net sales to our ten largest customers have represented a majority of our net sales in recent periods. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 59 percent, 60 percent and 51 percent of our net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. For fiscal 2006 and 2005, there were two customers, which represented 10 percent or more of our net sales. For fiscal 2004, there was one customer, which represented 10 percent or more of our net sales. Our principal customers have varied from period to period, and our principal customers may not continue to purchase services from us at current levels, or at all. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, or the loss of other major customers, could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production. EMS companies must provide rapid product turnaround for their customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons that are beyond our control. The success of our customers’ products in the market and the strength of the markets themselves affect our business. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer, or by a group of customers, could seriously harm our operating results. Such cancellations, reductions or delays have occurred and may continue to occur. In addition, we make significant decisions based on our estimates of customers’ requirements, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, facility requirements, personnel needs and other resource requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. Since many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross margins and operating results. Customers may require rapid increases in production, which can stress our resources and reduce operating margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet all of our customers’ demands or to meet the requirements of a specific program. Failure to manage growth and contraction, if any, may seriously harm our business. In late fiscal 2004, we expanded our operations in Penang, Malaysia and added many employees. These actions resulted in additional costs and start-up inefficiencies. In fiscal 2007, we will again expand our operations in Asia, including a recently announced addition of a third facility in Penang, Malaysia as well as the doubling of capacity in our existing facility in Xiamen, China. If we are unable to effectively manage the currently anticipated growth or the anticipated net sales are not realized, our operating results could be adversely affected. Periods of contraction or reduced sales, such as the periods that occurred from fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2003, create other challenges. We must determine whether facilities remain viable, whether staffing levels need to be reduced, and how to respond to changing levels of customer demand. While maintaining multiple facilities or higher levels of employment increase short-term costs, reductions in employment could impair our ability to respond to market improvements or to maintain customer relationships. Our decisions to reduce costs and capacity, such as the fiscal 2005 closure of our Bothell, Washington facility and the recently announced intention to close our Maldon, England facility and the related reduction in the number of employees, can affect our short-term and long-term results. In addition, to meet our customers’ needs, or to achieve increased efficiencies, we sometimes require additional capacity in one location while reducing capacity in another. Since customers’ needs and market conditions can vary and change rapidly, we may find ourselves in a situation where we simultaneously experience the effects of contraction in one location while incurring the costs of expansion in another location, such as those noted above. Expansion of our business and operations may negatively impact our business. We have announced the addition of a third facility in Malaysia as well as the expansion of our existing facility in China. Expansion of our operations involves numerous business risks, including: 6 Table of Contents • the inability to successfully integrate additional facilities or incremental capacity and to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value • additional fixed costs which may not be fully absorbed by the new business • difficulties in the timing of expansions, including delays in the implementation of construction and manufacturing plans • start up costs and inefficiencies as the new facilities begin operations • creation of excess capacity, and the need to reduce capacity elsewhere if anticipated sales or opportunities do not materialize • diversion of management’s attention from other business areas during the planning and implementation of expansions • strain placed on our operational, financial, management, technical and information systems and resources • disruption in manufacturing operations • inability to locate sufficient customers or employees to support the expansion and • inability to secure sufficient management talent necessary to support the expansion. Operating in foreign countries exposes us to increased risks, including foreign currency risks. We have operations in China, Malaysia, Mexico and the United Kingdom. We also purchase a significant number of components manufactured in foreign countries. These international aspects of our operations subject us to the following risks that could materially impact our operating results: • economic or political instability • transportation delays or interruptions • foreign exchange rate fluctuations • utilization of different systems and equipment • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign personnel in diverse cultures • the effects of international political developments and • foreign regulatory requirements. In fiscal 2005, the Chinese and Malaysian governments un-coupled their respective currencies from the U.S. dollar. Both currencies had been relatively fixed to the U.S. dollar for the last several years, but both governments now appear to have adopted policies described as “managed floats” (that is, allowing their currencies to move in a tight range up or down from the previous day’s close). We do not currently “hedge” foreign currencies. As our Asian operations expand, our failure to adequately hedge foreign currency transactions and/or currency exposures associated with assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, changes in policies by the U.S. or foreign governments could negatively affect our operating results due to changes in duties, tariffs, taxes or limitations on currency or fund transfers. For example, our facility in Mexico operates under the Mexican Maquiladora program, which provides for reduced tariffs and eased import regulations; we could be adversely affected by changes in that program. Also, the Malaysian and Chinese subsidiaries currently receive favorable tax treatments from these governments which extend for approximately 13 years and 7 years, respectively, which may or may not be renewed. We may not be able to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise. The markets for our manufacturing and engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process developments. The continued success of our business will depend upon our continued ability to: • retain our qualified engineering and technical personnel • maintain and enhance our technological capabilities • develop and market manufacturing services which meet changing customer needs and • successfully anticipate, or respond to, technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Although we believe that our operations utilize the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology, industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have 7 Table of Contents to acquire new assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment that could reduce our operating margins and our operating results. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ changing technological needs and requirements could have an adverse effect on our business. We invest in technology to support our operations; developments may impair those assets. We are involved in a multi-year project to install a common ERP platform and associated information systems at most of our manufacturing sites. Our ERP platform is intended to augment our management information systems and includes various software systems to enhance and standardize our ability to globally translate information from production facilities into operational and financial information and create a consistent set of core business applications at our worldwide facilities. As of September 30, 2006, facilities representing approximately 70 percent of our net sales are currently managed on the common ERP platform. We plan to extend the common ERP platform to our remaining sites over the next two years; however, the conversion timetable and project scope for our remaining sites are subject to change based upon our evolving needs. Our manufacturing services involve inventory risk. Most of our contract manufacturing services are provided on a turnkey basis, under which we purchase some, or all, of the required materials. Accordingly, component price increases and inventory obsolescence could adversely affect our selling price, gross margins and operating results. In our turnkey operations, we need to order parts and supplies based on customer forecasts, which may be for a larger quantity of product than is included in the firm orders ultimately received from those customers. Customers’ cancellation, delay or reduction of orders can result in additional expense or excess inventory to us. While most of our customer agreements include provisions that require customers to reimburse us for excess inventory specifically ordered to meet their forecasts, we may not actually be reimbursed or be able to collect on these obligations. In that case, we could have excess inventory and/or cancellation or return charges from our suppliers. In addition, we provide managed inventory programs for some of our key customers under which we hold and manage finished goods inventories. These managed inventory programs may result in higher finished goods inventory levels, further reduce our inventory turns and increase our financial exposure with such customers. Even though our customers generally have contractual obligations to purchase such inventories from us, we may remain subject to the risk of enforcing those obligations. We may not be able to obtain raw materials or components for our assemblies on a timely basis, or at all. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for many of the components used in the assembly process. We do not have any long-term supply agreements. At various times, there have been shortages of some of the electronic components that we use, and suppliers of some components have lacked sufficient capacity to meet the demand for these components. At times, component shortages have been prevalent in our industry, and such shortages may be expected to recur from time to time. In some cases, supply shortages and delays in deliveries of particular components have resulted in curtailed or delayed production of assemblies, which contributed to an increase in our inventory levels. An increase in economic activity could result in shortages, if manufacturers of components do not adequately anticipate the increased orders and/or have previously excessively cut back their production capability in view of reduced activity in recent years. World events, such as terrorism, armed conflict and epidemics, could also affect supply chains. An inability to obtain sufficient components on a timely basis could harm relationships with our customers. Due to the specialized component needs of our customers’ products, we may be required to use suppliers which are the sole provider of certain components. Such suppliers may encounter financial difficulties or may not have adequate financial resources, which could preclude them from delivering components on time or at all. While most of our customer contracts permit quarterly or other periodic adjustments to pricing based on changes in component prices and other factors, we typically bear the risk of component price increases that occur between any such repricings or, if such repricing is not permitted, during the balance of the term of the particular customer contract. Accordingly, component price increases could adversely affect our operating results. 8 Table of Contents Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs or new facilities can adversely affect our operating results. The management of labor and production capacity in connection with the establishment of new programs and new customer relationships, and the need to estimate required resources in advance of production can adversely affect our gross margins and operating margins. These factors are particularly evident in the early stages of the life cycle of new products and new programs or program transfers. The effects of these start-up costs and inefficiencies can also occur when we open new facilities, when we expand facilities, or when we transfer programs between locations. Customer needs, capacity utilization rates and/or increased demand may require that we expand certain facilities, or seek larger facilities in future years. We are currently managing a number of new programs. Consequently, our exposure to these factors has increased. In addition, if any of these new programs or new customer relationships were terminated, our operating results could worsen, particularly in the short term. Although we try to minimize the potential losses arising from transitioning customer programs between Plexus facilities or open new facilities, there are inherent risks that such transitions can result in the disruption of programs and customer relationships. We and our customers are subject to extensive government regulations. Government regulation and procurement practices significantly affect our operations and the industries which we serve, which can in turn affect our operations and costs. Medical - Our medical device business, which represented approximately 26 percent of our net sales for fiscal 2006, is subject to substantial government regulation, primarily from the federal Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. We must comply with statutes and regulations covering the design, development, testing, manufacturing and labeling of medical devices and the reporting of certain information regarding their safety. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, recall or seizure of devices, or total or partial suspension of production. The FDA also has the authority to require repair or replacement of equipment, or refund of the cost of a device manufactured or distributed by our customers. Violations may lead to penalties or shutdowns of a program or a facility. Failure or noncompliance could have an adverse effect on our reputation. In addition, our customers’ failure to comply with applicable regulations or legal requirements, or even allegations of such failures, could affect our net sales to those customers. Defense - In recent periods, our net sales to the defense/security/aerospace sector have significantly increased. Companies that design and manufacture for this sector face governmental, security and other requirements that could materially affect their financial condition and results of operations. In addition, defense contracting can be subject to extensive procurement processes and other factors that can affect the timing and duration of contracts and orders. For example, defense orders are subject to continued congressional appropriations for these programs, as well as continued determinations by the Department of Defense to continue them. Products for the military are also subject to continuing testing of their operations in the field, which would affect the possibility and timing of future orders. While those arrangements may result in a significant amount of net sales in a short period of time as they did in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006, they may or may not result in continuing long-term relationships. Even in the case of continuing long-term relationships, orders in the defense sector can be episodic and vary significantly from period to period; for example, in the early part of fiscal 2007, we expect our sales in this sector to decrease from the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006 (although we expect that, subject to the foregoing factors, additional orders will ultimately be forthcoming). Wireline/Wireless - - The end-markets for most of our customers in the wireline/networking and wireless infrastructure sectors are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, as well as by various state and foreign government agencies. The policies of these agencies can directly affect both the near-term and long-term consumer and provider demand and profitability of the sector and therefore directly impact the demand for products that we manufacture. European Union - There are two European Union (“EU”) directives that affect our business. The first of these is the Restriction of the use of Certain Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”). RoHS became effective on July 1, 2006, and restricted within the EU the distribution of products containing certain substances, lead being the restricted substance most relevant to us. 9 Table of Contents The second EU directive is the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive which requires a manufacturer or importer, at its own cost, to take back and recycle all of the products it either manufactured in or imported into the EU. Since both of these directives affect the worldwide electronics supply-chain, we expect that there will be further collaborative efforts with our suppliers and customers to develop compliant processes and products, although to date the cost of such efforts to us and our liability for non-compliant product has been nominal. Environmental - - We are subject to environmental regulations relating to air emission standards and the use, storage, discharge, recycling and disposal of hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. If we fail to comply with present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of business. These regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly equipment or incur significant expense. While we are not currently aware of any material violations, we may have to spend funds to comply with present and future regulations or be required to perform site remediation. Products we design or manufacture may contain defects that could result in reduced demand for our services and liability claims against us. We manufacture products to our customers’ specifications that are highly complex and may at times contain design or manufacturing defects. Defects have been discovered in products we manufactured in the past and, despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, defects may occur in the future. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component defect, may result in delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these defects occur in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may also be tarnished. In addition, these defects may result in liability claims against us. Even if customers are responsible for the defects, they may or may not be able to assume responsibility for any such costs or required payments to us, and we occasionally incur costs defending claims. Our products are for the electronics industry, which produces technologically advanced products with relatively short life cycles. Factors affecting the electronics industry, in particular the short life cycle of products, could seriously harm our customers and, as a result, us. These factors include: • the inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards that result in short product life cycles • the inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested and • the potential that our customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance. Increased competition may result in decreased demand or reduced prices for our services. The electronics manufacturing services industry is highly competitive and has become more so as a result of excess capacity in the industry. We compete against numerous U.S. and foreign electronics manufacturing services providers with global operations, as well as those which operate on only a local or regional basis. In addition, current and prospective customers continually evaluate the merits of manufacturing products internally. Consolidations and other changes in the electronics manufacturing services industry result in a continually changing competitive landscape. The consolidation trend in the industry also results in larger and more geographically diverse competitors that may have significantly greater resources with which to compete against us. Some of our competitors have substantially greater managerial, manufacturing, engineering, technical, financial, systems, sales and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may: • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies • have greater name recognition, critical mass and geographic and market presence • be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities • adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements 10 Table of Contents • devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services and • be better positioned to compete on price for their services. We may be operating at a cost disadvantage compared to other electronic manufacturing services providers which have greater direct buying power from component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers or which have lower cost structures. As a result, competitors may have a competitive advantage and obtain business from our customers. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection, and companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or increase their competition with us. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced sales and margins or loss of market share. We depend on certain key personnel, and the loss of key personnel may harm our business. Our success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the development of new products and processes and the manufacture of existing products. The competition for these individuals is significant, and the loss of key employees could harm our business. Energy price increases may reduce our profits. We use some components made with petroleum-based materials. In addition, we use various energy sources transporting, producing and distributing products. Energy prices have recently been subject to volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation, production and transportation disruption, world events, and changes in governmental programs. Energy price increases raise both our material and operating costs. We may not be able to increase our prices enough to offset these increased costs. Increasing our prices also may reduce our level of future customer orders and profitability. We may fail to successfully complete future acquisitions and may not successfully integrate acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our operating results. Although we have previously grown through acquisitions, our current focus is on pursuing organic growth opportunities. If we were to pursue future growth through acquisitions, however, this would involve significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on us. These risks include: Operating risks, such as the: • inability to integrate successfully our acquired operations’ businesses and personnel • inability to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value • difficulties in scaling up production and coordinating management of operations at new sites • strain placed on our personnel, systems and resources • possible modification or termination of an acquired business’s customer programs, including cancellation of current or anticipated programs and • loss of key employees of acquired businesses. Financial risks, such as the: • use of cash resources, or incurrence of additional debt and related interest expenses • dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities • inability to achieve expected operating margins to offset the increased fixed costs associated with acquisitions, and/or inability to increase margins of acquired businesses to our desired levels • incurrence of large write-offs or write-downs • impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and • unforeseen liabilities of the acquired businesses. We may fail to secure or maintain necessary financing. We maintain a Secured Credit Facility with a group of banks, which allows us to borrow up to $150 million depending upon compliance with related covenants and conditions. We are currently re-negotiating the size and terms 11 Table of Contents of this facility as more fully described in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section. However, we cannot be certain that the Secured Credit Facility will provide all of the financing capacity that we will need in the future or that we will be able to amend the Secured Credit Facility or revise covenants, if necessary or appropriate in the future, to accommodate changes or developments in our business and operations. Our future success may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing and capital to support increased sales and our possible future growth. We may seek to raise capital by: • issuing additional common stock or other equity securities • issuing debt securities • modifying existing credit facilities or obtaining new credit facilities and • a combination of these methods. We may not be able to obtain capital when we want or need it, and capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we issue additional equity securities or convertible debt to raise capital, it may be dilutive to shareholders’ ownership interests. Furthermore, any additional financing may have terms and conditions that adversely affect our business, such as restrictive financial or operating covenants, and our ability to meet any financing covenants will largely depend on our financial performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market have promulgated rules on a variety of subjects. These developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors or qualified executive officers. Compliance with these new rules has increased our legal and accounting costs, most significantly in fiscal 2005, which was our first year of compliance. We anticipate, in the absence of any significant changes to the regulatory environment (which cannot be assured), that our compliance costs will be lower in fiscal 2007 and beyond as we become more efficient in our compliance processes. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a reduction in the value of our common stock. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K; that report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must attest to and report on both management’s assessment as to whether the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting and on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In fiscal 2007, we are continuing our comprehensive efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could lead to a failure to meet our reporting obligations to the SEC, which in turn could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated significantly in recent periods. The price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors relating to us, our competitors and the market for our services, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and especially the NASDAQ markets, along with share prices for technology companies in particular, have from time to time experienced extreme volatility, including weakness, that sometimes has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Our stock price and the stock price of many other technology companies remain below their peaks. 12 Table of Contents Among other things, volatility and weakness in our stock price could mean that investors may not be able to sell their shares at or above the prices that they paid. Volatility and weakness could also impair our ability in the future to offer common stock or convertible securities as a source of additional capital and/or as consideration in the acquisition of other businesses. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents 