ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well any amendments or updates reflected in subsequent filings with the SEC. We believe these risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and could materially and adversely affect our business operations. Further, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our results and business operations. Industry Risks Our business is dependent on the price and availability of resin, our principal raw material, and our ability to pass on resin price increases to our customers. The principal raw materials that we use in our products are polyethylene, polypropylene and polyvinyl chloride resins. Our ability to operate profitably is dependent, in large part, on the markets for these resins. We use resins that are derived from petroleum and natural gas, and therefore prices of such resins fluctuate substantially as a result of changes in petroleum and natural gas prices, demand and the capacity of resin suppliers. Instability in the world markets for petroleum and natural gas could adversely affect the prices of our raw materials and their general availability. Our ability to maintain profitability is heavily dependent upon our ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any increase in raw material costs. If there is overcapacity in the production of any specific product that we manufacture and sell, we frequently are not able to pass through the full amount of any cost increase. If resin prices increase and we are not able to fully pass on the increases to our customers, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity will be adversely affected. 12 Intense competition in the flexible packaging markets may adversely affect our operating results. The business of supplying plastic packaging products is extremely competitive. The competition in our market is highly price sensitive, while we also compete on the basis of quality, service, timely delivery and differentiation of product properties. We face intense competition from numerous competitors, including from local manufacturers which specialize in the extrusion of a limited group of products, which they market nationally, and a limited number of manufacturers of flexible packaging products which offer a broad range of products and maintain production and marketing facilities domestically and internationally. Certain of our competitors may have extensive production facilities, well-developed sales and marketing staffs and greater financial resources than we do. We believe that there are few barriers to entry into many of our product markets. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, competition from new manufacturers. When new manufacturers enter the market for a plastic packaging product or existing manufacturers increase capacity, they frequently reduce prices to achieve increased market share. In addition, we compete with other packaging product manufacturers, many of which can offer consumers non-plastic packaging solutions. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and such competition can result in additional pricing pressures, reduced sales and lower margins. An increase in competition could result in material selling price reductions or loss of our market share, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the markets for our products or that competition will not intensify. We are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations which govern our operations and which may result in potential liability. In addition, consumer preferences and ongoing health and safety studies on plastics and resins may adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations which govern: · discharges into the air and water; · the storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; · the remediation of soil and ground water contaminated by petroleum products or hazardous substances or waste; and · the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require material expenditures by us. Actions by federal, state, local and foreign governments concerning environmental and health and safety matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of manufacturing our products. In addition, the nature of our current and former operations and the history of industrial uses at some of our manufacturing facilities expose us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental and worker health and safety matters. We may also be exposed to claims for violations of environmental laws and regulations by previous owners or operators of our property. In addition, the presence of, or failure to remediate, hazardous substances or waste may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent any property or to use it as collateral for a loan. We also may be liable for costs relating to the investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous waste and substances from a disposal or treatment facility to which we or our predecessors sent waste or materials. Additionally, a decline in consumer preference for plastic products due to environmental considerations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, continuing studies of potential health and safety effects of various resins and plastics, including polyvinyl chlorides and other materials that we use in our products, are being conducted by industry groups, government agencies and others. The results of these studies, along with the development of any other new information, may adversely affect our ability to market and sell certain of our products or 13 may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured by such products, any of which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. The loss of a key supplier could lead to increased costs and lower profit margins. Resin costs comprised approximately 75% of our total consolidated cost of sales during the twelve months ended October 31, 2006. We rely on three principal suppliers for our resin that provided us with approximately 29%, 21% and 18%, respectively, of our fiscal 2006 resin supply. The loss of any of these resin suppliers would force us to purchase resin in the open market, which may be at higher prices, until we could secure another source of resin and such higher prices may not allow us to remain competitive. In addition, the resin supply in our industry is limited, and a loss of one of our suppliers may not be replaceable through open market purchases or through a supply arrangement with another supplier. If we are unable to obtain resin in sufficient quantities, we may not be able to manufacture our products. Even if we were able to replace one of our resin suppliers through another supply arrangement, there can be no assurance that the terms that we enter into with such alternate resin supplier will be as favorable as the resin supply arrangements that we currently have. Company Risks We have limited contractual relationships with our customers and, as a result, our customers may unilaterally reduce the purchase of our products. We generally do not enter into long-term contractual relationships with our customers. As a result, our customers may unilaterally reduce the purchase of our products or, in certain cases, terminate existing orders for which we may have incurred significant production costs. Any loss of several customers could, in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected by risks associated with foreign operations. Approximately 13% of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 were generated from operations conducted outside North America. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks, including the following: · currency fluctuations; · restrictions on our ability to cause our subsidiaries to transfer cash to us; · requirements relating to withholding taxes on transfers from our subsidiaries to us; · inflation; · compliance with existing and changing regulatory requirements; · export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and redundancy costs which limit our ability to reduce staff; · longer payment cycles; · problems in collecting accounts receivable; · political instability and economic downturns; · seasonal reductions in business activity in Europe during the summer months; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. 14 We have experienced and may continue to experience any or all of these risks. Any of these factors may materially adversely affect our sales, profits, cash flow and financial position. Our international operations subject us to currency translation risk and currency transaction risk which could cause our results to fluctuate significantly from period to period. The financial condition and results of operations of each foreign subsidiary are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Exchange rates between these currencies, especially the euro, and U.S. dollars in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. In recent years, as a result of the strength of the euro compared to the U.S. dollar, our operating results in U.S. dollars were positively affected upon translation. The positive impact of the strengthening euro may not continue in the future and may even reverse if the euro declines in value compared to the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different than the functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transactions and/or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may cause our profits to decrease or result in a loss. We may, from time to time, experience problems in our labor relations. In North America, unions represent 311 employees, or 19% of our North American workforce, at October 31, 2006, under three collective bargaining agreements. One agreement expires in February 2007, one agreement expires in March 2008, and the other agreement expires in January 2010. Although we believe that our present labor relations with our North American employees are satisfactory, our failure to renew these agreements on reasonable terms could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Further, we have collective bargaining agreements at our facility in the Netherlands, covering substantially all of the hourly employees. We cannot assure you that our relations with the unionized portion of our workforce will remain positive or that such employees will not initiate a strike, work stoppage or slowdown in the future. In the event of such an action, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected and we cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately meet the needs of our customers using our remaining workforce. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not have similar actions with our non-unionized workforce or that our non-unionized workforce will not become unionized in the future. Loss of third-party transportation providers upon whom we depend or increases in fuel prices could increase our costs or cause a disruption in our operations. We depend upon third-party transportation providers for delivery of our products to our customers. Strikes, slowdowns, transportation disruptions or other conditions in the transportation industry, including, but not limited to, shortages of truck drivers, disruptions in rail service, decreases in ship building or increases in fuel prices, could increase our costs and disrupt our operations and our ability to service our customers on a timely basis. In addition, recent rising fuel prices have resulted and may continue to result in increasing transportation costs and have adversely affected and may continue to affect our operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the management experience of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional personnel. We are dependent on the management experience and continued services of our executive officers, including J. Brendan Barba, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Paul M. Feeney, our Executive 15 Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer. On May 9, 2005, we entered into employment agreements with Mr. Barba and Mr. Feeney, as well as each of the following executives: John J. Powers, David J. Cron, Paul C. Vegliante, Robert Cron and Lawrence R. Noll. These agreements were effective as of November 1, 2004 and have an initial term of three years and may be extended for successive periods of one year, unless either party gives written notice to the other at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the then current term that he or it does not wish to extend the agreement beyond the term. The employment agreements also include terms relating to severance upon termination or a change of control, confidentiality, non-competition, non-solicitation and other customary provisions. In addition, our continued growth depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced key employees. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and the loss of such persons, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract and retain additional qualified employees. Our Chief Executive Officer owns a substantial amount of our common stock and has significant influence over our business. At October 31, 2006, J. Brendan Barba, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 1,106,625 shares of our common stock and had the right to acquire an additional 60,000 shares of our common stock. His ownership and voting control over approximately 14% of our common stock gives him significant influence on the outcome of corporate transactions or other matters submitted to the Board of Directors or shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Recent legislation and other increased costs of being a publicly traded company are likely to impact our future consolidated financial position and results of operations. Significant regulatory changes, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations promulgated as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings have increased, and in the future are expected to further increase, our general and administrative costs. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles and adversely affect our financial position and operating results. We experience fluctuations in operating income, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our operating income from continuing operations has been subject to significant quarterly and annual fluctuations. These fluctuations can be caused by: · global economic conditions; · competition; · variability in raw material prices; · acquisitions; · asset sales; · business restructuring initiatives; · seasonality; and · foreign currency fluctuations. 16 These fluctuations make it more difficult for investors to compare our operating results to corresponding prior year periods. These fluctuations may also cause our stock price to fluctuate. You should not unduly rely on our results of operations for any particular quarter or year as indicative of our results for a full year or any other period. Financial Risks We have a high level of debt relative to our shareholders’ equity, which reduces cash available for our business and therefore may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funds and increases our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. We have a substantial amount of debt in relation to our shareholders’ equity. As of October 31, 2006, we had: · $193.9 million of total debt outstanding (not including capital lease obligations of $2.8 million); and · $57.6 million of total shareholders’ equity. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby limiting our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; and · limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to compliance with the terms of our existing credit facilities and senior notes. As of October 31, 2006, we would have been permitted to borrow up to an additional $113.7 million under our credit facility and an additional $11.9 million in foreign credit facilities. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks described above that we and our subsidiaries face could intensify. To service our debt or redeem such debt upon a change of control, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our operating performance. This, in part, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or indebtedness or refinance or restructure our debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial cash flow problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We cannot assure you as to the timing of such sales or the proceeds that we could realize from such sales or if additional debt or equity financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A provision of our senior notes requires us, upon a change of control, to offer to purchase the outstanding senior notes. If a change of control were to occur and we could not obtain a waiver or if we do not have the funds to make the purchase, we would be in default under the senior notes, which could, in 17 turn, cause any of our debt to become immediately due and payable to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. If our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would be able to repay it. We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants which may restrict our business and financing activities. Our credit facility, the indenture relating to our senior notes and the agreements relating to the indebtedness of our subsidiaries contain restrictive debt covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: · borrow money; · pay dividends and make distributions; · issue stock of subsidiaries; · make certain investments; · repurchase stock; · use assets as security in other transactions; · create liens; · enter into affiliate transactions; · merge or consolidate; and · transfer and sell assets. In addition, our credit facility and the agreements relating to the indebtedness of our subsidiaries also require us to maintain certain financial tests. These restrictive covenants may limit our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Furthermore, any indebtedness that we incur in the future may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Our ability to comply with the restrictions contained in our credit facility, our senior notes and the agreements relating to the indebtedness of our subsidiaries may be affected by changes in our business condition or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. A failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under our credit facility, our senior notes and the agreements relating to the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, or any other subsequent financing agreement, which could, in turn, cause any of our debt to become immediately due and payable to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. If our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would be able to repay it. In addition, a default could give our lenders the right to terminate any commitments that they had made to provide us with additional funds. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. Forecasts of our income tax position and resultant effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets and costs resulting from tax audits. To forecast our consolidated tax rate, pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction are estimated and tax expense by jurisdiction is calculated. If the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimates, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. 18 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past, and will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: · fluctuations in operating results, including as a result of changes in resin prices, compensation expense required by SFAS 123R, currency exchange fluctuations and the other variables set forth under “Company Risks—We experience fluctuations in operating income, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate.”; · our liquidity needs and constraints; · the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve; · announcements concerning our business or that of our competitors or customers; · the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; · change in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stocks of other companies in our industry or failure of analysts to cover our common stock; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and natural disasters or responses to such events; · sales of common stock by our directors and executive officers; · recent regulatory changes permitting our employees to sell shares in their individual account under our 401 (k) Savings and Employee Stock Ownership Plan; · prevailing interest rates; and · perceived dilution from stock issuances. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Shares of common stock eligible for future sale, and additional equity offerings by us, may adversely affect our common stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of additional shares of our common stock in the public market, including the shares covered by our shelf registration filed in 2006, or in connection with future acquisitions, or the perception that such sales could occur. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities at a time and price favorable to us. As of October 31, 2006 under our certificate of incorporation, as amended, we are authorized to issue 30 million shares of common stock, of which approximately 7.9 million shares of common stock were outstanding and approximately 0.6 million shares of common stock were issuable related to the exercise of currently outstanding stock options and to performance units. We may also decide to raise additional funds through public or private equity financing to fund our operations or for other business purposes. New issuances of equity securities would reduce your percentage ownership in us and the new equity securities could have rights and preferences with priority 19 over those of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Our stock repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. On August 1, 2006, our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we may purchase up to $15 million of our common stock. The repurchase program has no specified expiration date. Repurchases may be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or by other means, from time to time, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. The existence of our stock repurchase program and any purchases under this program could result in an increase in the market price of our stock. In addition, purchases under this repurchase program could reduce the liquidity for our stock. Further, our repurchase program may be suspended at any time at our discretion, and any discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law imposes various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. For example, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions include: · requiring supermajority approval of shareholders for certain business combinations or an amendment to, or repeal of, the by-laws; · prohibiting shareholders from acting by written consent without board approval; · prohibiting shareholders from calling special meetings of shareholders; · establishing a classified board of directors, which allows approximately one-third of our directors to be elected each year; · limitations on the removal of directors; · advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; · permitting the board of directors to amend or repeal the by-laws; and · permitting the board of directors to designate one or more series of preferred stock. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue one million shares of preferred stock in accordance with our restated certificate of incorporation, none of which is issued and outstanding. Our board of directors has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the 20 voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 