ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information in this report before deciding to invest in our common stock. RISKS RELATING TO OVERALL BUSINESS OPERATIONS WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND THERE ARE NO ASSURANCES WE WILL EVER REPORT PROFITABLE OPERATIONS. While we reported net income of approximately $8.4 million for fiscal 2009, these results include a one-time gain on sale of oil and gas properties of approximately $11.7 million. Absent this one-time transaction, our net loss for fiscal 2009 would have been approximately $3.3 million. In fiscal 2008 we reported a net loss of approximately $2.4 million. Our operations are not sufficient to fund our operating expenses. We reported operating losses of $3.2 million and $2.2 million for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. Management's 2010 forecast indicates positive trends from capital-raising, increased production and related revenues, but it may not result in positive operating income, net income, among others and positive cash flows. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is dependent upon the successful completion of additional financing and/or generating profitable operations in future periods. THE PRICES FOR OIL AND GAS ARE SUBJECT TO VOLATILITY BASED UPON FACTORS OVER WHICH WE HAVE NO CONTROL. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production, particularly in Tennessee. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly affect the level of drilling activity. An actual decline, or the perceived risk of a decline, in oil or natural gas prices could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of spending, in which case demand for our products and services may decrease and revenues may be adversely affected. Prices for natural gas and crude oil fluctuate widely. For example, in fiscal 2009, our average sales price per barrel of oil was $68.77 as compared to $79.85 during fiscal 2008 and in fiscal 2009 our average sales price per Mcf of natural gas was $8.00 as compared to $7.21 in fiscal 2008. We anticipate continued fluctuations in the price of natural gas and oil These fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: o worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; o weather conditions; o the level of consumer demand; o the price and availability of alternative fuels; o the availability of drilling rigs and completion equipment; o the proximity to, and capacity of transportation facilities; 18 o the price and level of foreign imports; o the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulation and taxation; o the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; o worldwide economic and political conditions; o the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; o political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and o the overall economic environment. We have little or no control over any of the foregoing variables which impact adversely our revenues in future periods. APPROXIMATELY 47% OF OUR PROVED GAS RESERVES ARE CLASSIFIED AS PROVED UNDEVELOPED. Approximately 47% of our gas reserves are classified as proved undeveloped reserves. The future development of these undeveloped reserves into proved developed reserves is highly dependent upon our ability to fund an estimated total capital development cost of approximately $1,174,300. If such development costs are not incurred or are substantially reduced, our proved gas undeveloped and total proved reserves could be substantially reduced. The reduction in such reserves could have a materially negative impact on our ability to produce profitable future operations. The successful conversion of these proved undeveloped reserves into proved developed reserves is dependent upon the following: o The funding of the estimated proved undeveloped capital development costs is highly dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient working capital through operating cash flows, and our ability to borrow funds and/or raise equity capital, o Our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flows is highly dependent upon successful and profitable future operations and cash flows which could be negatively impacted by fluctuating prices and increased operating costs. No assurance can be given that we will have successful and profitable future operations and positive future cash flows, and o Projections for proved undeveloped reserves are largely based on their analogy to similar producing properties and to volumetric calculations. Reserves projections based on analogy are subject to change due to subsequent changes in the analogous properties. Volumetric calculations are often based upon limited log and/or core analysis data and incomplete reservoir fluid and formation rock data. Since these limited data must frequently be extrapolated over an assumed drainage area, subsequent production performance trends or material balance calculations may cause the need for significant revisions to the estimates of reserves. 19 ESTIMATES OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS DEPEND ON MANY ASSUMPTIONS THAT MAY VARY SUBSTANTIALLY FROM ACTUAL PRODUCTION. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve information relating to proved reserves set forth in this report represents only estimates based on reports of proved reserves prepared as of April 30, 2009 by Lee Keeling and Associates, Inc., independent petroleum consultants. Lee Keeling and Associates, Inc. was not engaged to evaluate and prepare reports relating to the probable reserves on our properties and interests as these are more uncertain than evaluations of proved reserves. Petroleum engineering is not an exact science. Information relating to our proved oil and natural gas reserves is based upon engineering estimates. Estimating quantities of proved crude oil and natural gas reserves is a complex process. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions or changes of conditions could cause the quantities of our reserves to be overstated. To prepare estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows, engineers analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas. It is also necessary to analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected there from prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variations may be material. OUR OPERATIONS ENTAIL INHERENT CASUALTY RISKS WHICH MAY NOT BE COVERED BY ADEQUATE INSURANCE. Our operations are subject to inherent casualty risks such as fires, blowouts, cratering and explosions. Other risks include pollution, the uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids. These risks may result in injury or loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage or property and equipment damage, all of which would cause us to experience substantial financial loss. There were no catastrophic events in fiscal 2009 or 2008. Our drilling operations involve risks from high pressures and from mechanical difficulties such as stuck pipes, collapsed casings and separated cables. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of properties that we purchased, which liabilities would not be covered by our insurance. 20 OUR OPERATIONS ALSO ENTAIL SIGNIFICANT OPERATING RISKS. Our drilling activities involve risks, such as drilling non-productive wells or dry holes, which are beyond our control. The cost of drilling and operating wells and of installing production facilities and pipelines is uncertain. Cost overruns are common risks that often make a project uneconomical. The decision to purchase and to exploit a property depends on the evaluations made by reserve engineers, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to multiple interpretations. We may also decide to reduce or cease its drilling operations due to title problems, weather conditions, noncompliance with governmental requirements or shortages and delays in the delivery or availability of equipment or fabrication yards. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON LIMITED CUSTOMERS We are dependent on local purchasers of hydrocarbons to purchase our products in the areas where our properties are located. During the fiscal years ended April 30, 2009 and 2008, one customer purchasing oil represented approximately 12% and 38%, respectively of our total revenue and another customer purchasing natural gas from the joint venture with Delta Products, Inc. represented approximately 40% and 37% of our total revenue from fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss of one or more of our primary purchasers may have a substantial adverse impact on our sales and on our ability to operate profitably. OUR OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS THAT REQUIRE COMPLIANCE THAT CAN BE BURDENSOME AND EXPENSIVE. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic and political conditions. Matters subject to regulation relate to the general population's health and safety and are associated with compliance and permitting obligations including regulations related to discharge from drilling operations, use, storage, handling, emission and disposal, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. In addition, the production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. These laws and regulations have continually imposed increasingly strict requirements for water and air pollution control and solid waste management, and compliance with these laws may cause delays in the additional drilling and development of our properties. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations applicable to us. We believe the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental legislation and regulations will continue. While, historically, we have not experienced any material adverse effect from regulatory delays, there can be no assurance that such delays will not occur for us in the future. We incurred less than $2,500 for government compliance in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, primarily for safety items such as notices, hardhats and other small items. 21 PRICE DECLINES HAVE RESULTED IN AND MAY IN THE FUTURE RESULT IN WRITE-DOWNS OF OUR ASSET CARRYING VALUES. Commodity prices have a significant impact on the present value of our proved reserves. Recent declines in oil and gas prices have resulted in material downward revisions in the estimated present value of our proved reserves. Total reserves declined from a present worth value at April 30, 2008 of $9,774,116 to $2,224,361 at April 30, 2009. This was primarily due to a drop on commodity prices as the price for a barrel of oil declined from $103.31 as of April 30, 2008 to $40.35 as of April 30, 2009. Accounting rules require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and gas properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore requires a write-down. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred. We had no impairment charges for the years ended April 30, 2008 and 2009. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR SECURITIES CERTAIN OF OUR OUTSTANDING WARRANTS CONTAIN CASHLESS EXERCISE PROVISIONS WHICH MEANS WE WILL NOT RECEIVE ANY CASH PROCEEDS UPON THEIR EXERCISE. At June 30, 2009 we have common stock warrants outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 1,000,000 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $0.50 per share, 1,000,000 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $1.00 per share and 1,640,000 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $1.15 per share. All of these warrants are exercisable on a cashless basis which means that the holders, rather than paying the exercise price in cash, may surrender a number of warrants equal to the exercise price of the warrants being exercised. It is possible that the warrant holders will utilize the cashless exercise feature which will deprive us of additional capital which might otherwise be obtained if the warrants did not contain a cashless feature. WE HAVE NOT VOLUNTARILY IMPLEMENTED VARIOUS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MEASURES, IN THE ABSENCE OF WHICH, SHAREHOLDERS MAY HAVE MORE LIMITED PROTECTIONS AGAINST INTERESTED DIRECTOR TRANSACTIONS, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND SIMILAR MATTERS. Federal legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has resulted in the adoption of various corporate governance measures designed to promote the integrity of the corporate management and the securities markets. Some of these measures have been adopted in response to legal requirements. Others have been adopted by companies in response to the requirements of national securities exchanges, such as the NYSE or the NASDAQ Stock Market, on which their securities are listed. Among the corporate governance measures that are required under the rules of national securities exchanges are those that address board of directors' independence, audit committee oversight, and the adoption of a code of ethics. Although we have adopted a Code of Conduct, two of our directors are independent and our Board has established an Audit Committee, we have not adopted many of these other corporate governance measures and, since our securities are not listed on a national securities exchange, we are not required to do so. It is possible that if we were to adopt some or all of these corporate governance measures, including the requirement that a majority of our Board be independent, shareholders would benefit from somewhat greater assurances that internal corporate decisions were being made by disinterested directors and that policies had been implemented to define responsible conduct. Prospective investors should bear in mind our current lack of corporate governance measures in formulating their investment decisions. 22 BECAUSE OUR STOCK CURRENTLY TRADES BELOW $5.00 PER SHARE, AND IS QUOTED ON IN THE OVER THE COUNTER MARKET, OUR STOCK IS CONSIDERED A "PENNY STOCK" WHICH CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS LIQUIDITY. Our common stock is currently quoted in the over the counter market on the OTC Bulletin Board. As the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock is considered a "penny stock," and trading in our common stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under this rule, broker/dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements. The broker/dealer must make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. SEC regulations also require additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a "penny stock," including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and its associated risks. These requirements severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few broker or dealers are likely to undertake these compliance activities. In addition to the applicability of the penny stock rules, other risks associated with trading in penny stocks could also be price fluctuations and the lack of a liquid market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 