ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses; we incurred a net loss in fiscal 2011 and our net income in fiscal 2010 was the result of one-time acquisition gains. Our revenues are not currently sufficient to fund our operating expenses and there are no assurances we will develop profitable operations. We reported an operating loss of approximately $15.1 million in fiscal 2011 and approximately $11.3 million in 2010. Our net loss of approximately $4.4 million in 2011 is primarily attributable to the operating loss, partially offset by an approximate $4.9 million in other income and a $5.7 million benefit from income taxes. Our net income of approximately $250.9 million in fiscal 2010 is attributable to $461.1 million in gains on the acquisitions of the Alaska and Tennessee businesses. As a result of the continued expansion of our business during fiscal 2011, our operating expenses presently exceed our revenues. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we fully develop our operations following the acquisition of the Alaskan assets. Although we expect an increase in our revenues to come from these development activities, we will continue depleting our cash resources to fund operating expenses until such time as we are able to significantly increase our revenues. We may have to reduce our expansion efforts if we have not seen an increase in revenues in the next few months. While we believe that our revenue will increase and exceed our operating expenses, there are no assurances that we will develop profitable operations. We will be subject to new debt costs under the terms of our Credit Facility with Guggenheim, Citibank N.A., and Bristol Investment Fund, Ltd. Monies borrowed are subject to an interest rate of the higher of 9.5% or the prime rate plus 4.5% per annum. In addition, we are required to pay an additional make-whole payment upon termination or payment in full of the credit facility, bringing the effective interest rate to 25% to 35%, depending on the timing of repayment. In January 2012, we will be required to devote 90% of our consolidated monthly net revenues toward paying back outstanding amounts under the credit facility. As described later in this report, in June 2011 we entered into a Loan Agreement with Guggenheim Corporate Funding, LLC, Citibank N.A., and Bristol Investment Fund, Ltd., under which a credit facility of up to $100 million has been made available to us. At July 15, 2011 we had drawn approximately $10.875 million under the Credit Facility. Any monies borrowed by us will bear interest at mezzanine rates and will be subject to a make whole premium that could amount to as much as 35%, depending on the date we repay the Credit Facility. These debt costs may be substantial, and will adversely impact our results until such time as the facility has been repaid. In addition, beginning in January 2012 we are required to use 90% of our consolidated monthly net revenues (after deducting general and administrative expenses up to certain limitations) to repay the amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility. If we have not repaid the facility in full prior to January 2012, we could be forced to reduce our general and administrative expenses. This could mean that we would need to make reductions in salaries and/or staffing, which could impact our ability to operate our business and achieve our aggressive plan for development. Depending on our success in increasing revenue and/or raising equity, the facility may not be repaid prior to January 2012. The restatement of our historical financial statements has already consumed, and may continue to consume, a significant amount of our time and resources and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As described elsewhere in this report, we have restated our unaudited consolidated financial statements for our first three quarters of fiscal year 2011. The restatement process was highly time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant accounting costs. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that we will have no inquiries from the SEC or the NYSE regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant additional amount of our resources in addition to those resources already consumed in connection with the restatement itself. Further, many companies that have been required to restate their historical financial statements have experienced a decline in stock price and stockholder lawsuits related thereto. 22 The staff of the SEC has determined that certain of our Forms 8-K related to acquisitions we made in fiscal year 2010 are materially deficient which will adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital. In connection with a review of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2010, the staff of the SEC has concluded that we omitted required audited financial statements of three acquired businesses, including ETC, KTO and CIE, from our Forms 8-K reporting these acquisitions. Until such time as we file audited financial statements, the staff has advised us it considers those Forms 8-K to be materially deficient and that it will not waive these financial statement requirements. As a result, we are unable to utilize a “short-form” registration statement on SEC Form S-3. In addition, until such time as the audited financial statements of the acquired businesses are filed, the staff of the SEC has advised us it will not declare effective any registration statements or post-effective registration statements. We believe that the acquisitions of ETC and KTO were not material and did not rise to the level which required audited financial statements. Further, the CIE assets and liabilities were acquired through bankruptcy and via the newly formed CIE. These oil and gas producing assets were not operational for several months prior to the acquisition, were consolidated in, as they were part of a larger enterprise, and as accounting records were not adequately maintained by Pacific Energy Alaska Operating LLC and Pacific Energy Alaska Holdings, we were unable to carve out historical operational results on these specified assets. At the time of acquisition of these assets, we determined that the resulting assets and liabilities were not a separate business for purposes of preparing pro forma financials with historical results for the past year and / or related stub period and our Current Report on Form 8-K/A as filed included only a pro forma balance sheet to reflect the acquisition. We do not believe we will be able to obtain audited financial statements on this acquisition for the periods provided in Regulation S-X. In addition, under the terms of the registration rights agreement for our 2010 offering, we are required to keep the registration statement current which registered the resale of the shares sold in that private offering effective until either all of the shares have been sold or Rule 144 is available to the holders without our compliance with the current public information requirements of Rule 144. As a result of our current inability to file a post-effective amendment to that registration statement, we will begin accruing registration rights penalties which will adversely impact our results in future periods. We expect to continue our discussions with the staff of the SEC regarding this matter in an effort to obtain waivers to the financial statement requirements of Form 8-K for these acquisitions. There are no assurances we will be successful in our efforts. Until such time, if ever, that we are able to obtain a waiver from the SEC on the requirement to include audited financial statements in these Forms 8-K, our ability to register additional capital will be materially impacted. We are party to several lawsuits seeking millions of dollars in damages against us. An adverse decision in any of these lawsuits could result in our being forced to pay the prevailing plaintiff substantial amounts of money that would adversely impact our ability to continue with our development plans and/or operate our business. As described later in this report, we are subject to lawsuits seeking millions of dollars in damages against us. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and any damages that could ultimately be paid by us in relation to any of these lawsuits are subject to significant uncertainty. The timing and progression of each case is also unpredictable; it may take years for the case to make its way to trial and through various appeals. The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by us in relation to all obligations relating to these lawsuits are subject to significant uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and cost to us will be dependent on many factors, including the time spent litigating each case and the attorneys’ fees incurred by us in defending the cases. Our financial statements contained herein do not contain any reserves for any potential damages associated with this pending litigation. If we should not be successful in our defense of this pending litigation, our results of operations in future periods could be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to draw under the Credit Facility is subject to a 15 business day waiting period and subject to the Lenders’ approval in their sole discretion. When we wish to make a draw under the Credit Facility, we are required to file a borrowing request in a particular form outlining the monies requested and their intended use. The lenders have 15 business days during which to assemble the funds requested. We may not be able to identify our need for capital three weeks in advance, and the timing requirement under the loan may hinder our ability to operate at the pace we are used to. There is no 23 guarantee that the request will be approved at all as the required lenders may approve or deny the borrowing request in their sole and absolute discretion. Cook Inlet Energy’s operations are subject to oversight by the Alaska DNR and the Cook Inlet Energy oil and gas leases could be terminated if it fails to uphold the terms of the Assignment Oversight Agreement. If these leases were terminated, we would be unable to continue our operations as they are presently conducted and could be liable for significant additional costs associated with decommissioning the Osprey platform. On March 11, 2011, CIE entered into a Performance Bond Agreement with the DNR concerning certain bonding requirements initially established by the Assignment Oversight Agreement between these two parties dated November 5, 2009. The performance bond is intended to ensure that CIE has sufficient funds to meet its dismantlement, removal and restoration obligations under the applicable agreements, leases, and state laws and regulations. The Performance Bond Agreement applies only to the Redoubt Unit and Redoubt Shoal Field, and sets forth an amount of $18.0 million for the bond. The Agreement includes a funding schedule, which requires payments annually on July 1, beginning in 2013, of amounts ranging from $1.0 million to $2.5 million per year, and totaling $12.0 million. The Agreement also clarifies that approximately $6.8 million as of April 30, 2011 from a bond funded by the previous owner and held in a State Trust Account since the sale of the assets is included in the account holding the performance bond for our dismantlement, restoration, and rehabilitation obligations under the Agreement. The monies deposited under the Agreement may be held in the State Trust Account or in private bank or surety company accounts. Until the performance bond is fully funded, all interest on either account will be retained in the account. If the State Trust Account, which is currently an interest-bearing account, becomes a non-interest bearing account, CIE may transfer the funds to a private account with the DNR Commissioner’s consent. If CIE is more than 10 days late with a payment to the State Trust Account or more than 10 days late providing proof of a payment into a private account, the State will assess a late payment fee of $50,000. Our obligation to pay one or more late payment fees will further reduce the cash resources we have available to devote to the expansion of our operations and could adversely impact our ability to increase our revenues in future periods. Oil and gas prices fluctuate due to a number of uncontrollable factors, creating a component of uncertainty in our development plans and overall operations. Declines in prices adversely affect our financial results and rate of growth in proved reserves and production. Oil and gas markets are very volatile, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. The prices we receive for our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in global supply and demand for oil and gas, the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the level of global oil and gas exploration and production activity, weather conditions, technological advances affecting energy consumption, domestic and foreign governmental regulations and tax policies, proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and other transportation facilities. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will affect materially the quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves are prepared by independent petroleum engineers and geologists. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond our control and that of our engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices and expenditures for future development drilling and exploration activities, and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions, based upon production history, development drilling and exploration activities and prices of oil and natural gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development drilling expenditures, operating expenses, underlying information, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and underlying information set forth herein. 24 Approximately 75% of our total estimated proved reserves at April 30, 2011 were proved undeveloped reserves. In addition, there are no assurances that probable and possible reserves will be converted to proved reserves. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data included in the reserve engineer reports assumes that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves. Although cost and reserve estimates attributable to our natural gas and crude oil reserves have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, we cannot be sure that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. We also have a significant amount of unproved reserves at April 30, 2011. There is significant uncertainty attached to unproved reserve estimates, which include probable and possible reserves. Proved reserves are more likely to be produced than probable reserves and probable reserves are more likely to be produced than possible reserves. There are no assurances that we can develop probable or possible reserves into proved reserves, or that if developed, probable reserves will become producing reserves to the level of the estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this annual report is the current market value of our estimated natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves are based on prices and costs on the date of the estimate, held constant for the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. Actual future net cash flows will also be affected by increases or decreases in consumption by oil and gas purchasers and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both the production and the incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and gas properties affects the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily an appropriate discount factor for determining a market valuation. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the relevance of the 10% discount factor. Our industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation that may limit our operations and negatively impact our production. As a result of increased enforcement of existing regulations and potential new regulations following the Gulf oil spill, the costs for complying with government regulation could increase. Extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations in the United States affect all of our operations. Environmental laws to which we are subject in the U.S. include, but are not limited to, the Clean Air Act and comparable state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling, storage, treatment or disposal of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which our hazardous substances have been transported for disposal, and the Clean Water Act, and comparable state laws that regulate discharges of wastewater from our facilities to state and federal waters. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or newly adopted laws or regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements on such operations. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and analogous state laws, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or hydrocarbons have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or other waste products into the environment. Environmental legislation may require that we do the following: · acquire permits before commencing drilling; · restrict spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with our operations; · limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; 25 · take reclamation measures to prevent pollution from former operations; · take remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells and remedying contaminated soil and groundwater; and · take remedial measures with respect to property designated as a contaminated site. There is inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions and water discharges related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. The costs of any of these liabilities are presently unknown but could be significant. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. In addition, we are unable to predict what impact the Gulf oil spill will have on independent oil and gas companies such as our company. For instance, companies such as ours currently pay an $0.08 per barrel tax on all oil produced in the U.S. which is contributed to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. There are pending proposals to raise this tax to $0.18 to $0.25 per barrel. It is also probable that there will be increased enforcement of existing regulations and adoption of new regulations which will also increase our cost of doing business which would reduce our operating profits in future periods. The effects of future environmental legislation on our business are unknown but could be substantial. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Changes in, or enforcement of, environmental laws may result in a curtailment of our production activities, or a material increase in the costs of production, development drilling or exploration, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or prospects. In addition, many countries, as well as several states in the United States have agreed to regulate emissions of “greenhouse gases.” Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning natural gas, are greenhouse gases. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact some of our operations and demand for products in the future. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, has authority to impose penalties for violations of the Natural Gas Act, up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. FERC has recently proposed and adopted regulations that may subject our facilities to reporting and posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with FERC regulations could subject us to civil penalties. Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by others. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of drilling plans for properties. The lack of availability of these facilities for an extended period of time could negatively affect our revenues. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. Our business involves many operating risks that may result in substantial losses for which insurance may be unavailable or inadequate. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for oil and gas, such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, formations with abnormal pressures, casing collapses, uncontrollable flows of underground gas, blowouts, surface cratering, pipeline ruptures or cement failures, and environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damages, regulatory investigations and penalties, suspension of our operations and repair and remediation costs. In addition, our liability for environmental hazards may include conditions created by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, 26 potential losses. We do not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that could occur is available at a reasonable cost. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could harm our financial condition and results of operation. Our Cook Inlet Basin leases and our Osprey Platform are located in a region of active volcanoes and we could be subject to the adverse impacts of natural disasters. The Cook Inlet region contains active volcanoes, including Augustine Volcano, Mount Spurr and Mount Redoubt, and volcanic eruptions in this region have been associated with earthquakes and tsunamis and debris avalanches have also resulted in tsunamis. In 2009 the Cook Inlet Pipeline Co. suspended operations on several occasions as a result of the spring 2009 major eruption of Mount Redoubt which also resulted in a shutdown of the Drift River Oil Terminal. Our operations in this area are subject to all of the inherent risks associated with operations in a geographical region which is subject to natural disasters and we are susceptible to the risk of damage to our operations and assets located in the Cook Inlet Basin. While our facilities are engineered to withstand seismic activity, and the current tight line configuration should allow us to continue shipments through an active volcanic period without much interruption, we do not maintain business interruption insurance which could adversely impact our results of operations as the result of lost revenues in future periods. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Securities Certain of our outstanding warrants contain cashless exercise provisions which means we will not receive any cash proceeds upon their exercise. At April 30, 2011 we have common stock warrants outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 85,400 shares of our common stock with an average exercise price of $1.74 per share which are exercisable on a cashless basis. This means that the holders, rather than paying the exercise price in cash, may surrender a number of warrants equal to the exercise price of the warrants being exercised. It is possible that the warrant holders will utilize the cashless exercise feature which will deprive us of additional capital which might otherwise be obtained if the warrants did not contain a cashless feature. A large portion of our outstanding common shares are “restricted securities” and we have outstanding options, warrants and purchase rights to purchase approximately 35% of our currently outstanding common stock. The exercise of these options, warrants and purchase rights would be dilutive to our current shareholders. At July 15, 2011 we had 40,559,251 shares of common stock outstanding together with outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 13,975,955 shares of common stock at exercise prices of between $0.01 and $6.94 per share. Of our outstanding shares of common stock at July 15, 2011, approximately 11,135,338 shares are "restricted securities." Future sales of restricted common stock under Rule 144 or otherwise could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, in the event of the exercise of the warrants and options, the number of our outstanding common stock will increase by approximately 34%, which will have a dilutive effect on our existing shareholders. The impacts of non-cash gains and losses from derivative liability accounting in future periods could materially impact our financial results. As a result of the terms of the March 2010 unit offering, our financial statements for the years ended April 30, 2011 and 2010 were impacted by the accounting effect of the application of derivative accounting. We anticipate that our financial statements in future periods will also be impacted. The application of EITF 07-05 “Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) is Indexed to a Company's Own Stock,” which became effective for us on May 1, 2009 will significantly affect the application of ASC Topic 815 and ASC Topic 815-40 for both freestanding and embedded derivative financial instruments in our financial statements. Generally, warrants, conversion features in debt, and similar terms that include “full-ratchet” or reset provisions, which mean that the exercise or conversion price adjusts to pricing in subsequent sales or issuances, no longer meet the definition of indexed to a company's own stock and are not exempt for equity classification provided in ASC Topic 815-15. This means that instruments that were previously classified in equity required reclassification to liabilities and require ongoing measurement under ASC Topic 815. As a result of the application of this accounting principle, we recorded a current derivative liability of $2,305,118 for oil hedging instruments remaining until December 2011 and a long-term derivative liability of $2,732,659 at April 30, 2011. In addition, we recognized a non-cash loss on 27 derivative securities of $1,007,574 in fiscal 2011, as compared to a non-cash loss of $13,299,430 in fiscal 2010. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we expect to record either a gain or loss based upon the market price of our common stock. The amount of quarterly non-cash gains or losses we will record in future periods is unknown at this time as the measurement is based upon the fair market value of our common stock on the measurement date. It is likely, however, that these non-cash gains or losses will continue to have a material impact on our financial results in future periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 