ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information in this annual report before deciding to invest in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and our net income in 2010 and 2009 are both the result of one-time acquisition gains. Our revenues are not currently sufficient to fund our operating expense and there are no assurances we will develop profitable operations. We reported an operating loss of approximately $11.1 million in 2010 and approximately $3.2 million in 2009. Our net income of approximately $249.5 million in 2010 is attributable to the approximate $461.1 million gains on the acquisitions of the Alaska and Tennessee assets. Our net income of approximately $8.4 million in 2009 is attributable to the approximate $11.7 million one-time gain on the sale of assets in Tennessee. While our revenues increased approximately $4.3 million in 2010 from 2009, our operating expenses increased by approximately $12.2 million from year to year. Approximately 31% of this increase in 2010 is associated with one-time non cash expenses and 19% is associated with ongoing non cash expenses. In addition, we did not begin reporting revenues from our Alaskan assets until January 2010. However, as a result of the significant expansion of our business during 2010 our operati ng expenses presently far exceed our revenues. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we fully develop our operations following the acquisition of the Alaskan assets and expect an increase in our revenues as well. However, until such time as we are able to significantly increase our revenues, we will continue depleting our cash resources to fund our operating expenses. We believe our present working capital is sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future, but we may have to reduce or cease our expansion efforts if we have not seen an increase in revenues in the next few months. While we believe that we will successful in increasing our revenues to a level which will pay our operating expenses, if we are not successful we will need to raise additional capital until such time as our revenues are sufficiently increased. As described below, our ability to raise additional capital could be adversely impacted by the terms of our March 2010 unit offering. If we a re unable to raise additional capital as necessary to fund our operating expenses, our ability to continue to grow our company would be hampered and we could be forced to curtail development of some or all of our assets until such time, if ever, that we are able to raise the needed capital. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which would prevent us from fully developing our business and substantially increasing our revenues. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive and we anticipate in addition to funds necessary to fund our operating expenses while we continue to develop the Alaskan assets, that we will need to raise between $75 million and $100 million to meet our funding commitments under the Assignment Oversight Agreement with the State of Alaska DNR and to fully develop our Tennessee and Alaskan reserves. We intend to seek this additional capital through the sale of equity or debt instruments; however, the terms of the March 2010 unit offering contain restrictive covenants that prevent us from raising any additional equity capital for six months following the effective date of a registration statement we are obligated to file with the SEC registering the securities sold in this offering and which contain additional covenants which may impede our capital raising activities in future periods. We may no t be able to obtain this necessary equity or debt financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise the capital as needed, the State of Alaska could terminate all of the Cook Inlet leases which would be a material adverse event to our company and we would be unable to fully develop our Alaskan reserves which would materially impact our ability to increase our revenues in future periods. To the extent such funds are not available from any of those sources, our operations and activities will be limited to those operations and activities we can afford with the funds then available to us. The failure to obtain additional financing could also result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects. We have failed to timely file a registration statement related to our March 2010 unit offering and are subject to registration rights penalties which are payable in cash. Under the terms of our March 2010 unit offering we were required to file a registration statement with the SEC registering for resale the shares of common stock sold in the offering, including those underlying the warrants included in the units, by April 15, 2010. We also agreed to use our best efforts to cause the registration statement to 20 be declared effective by the SEC within 90 days from the filing date or 120 days if the registration statement should be selected for a full review by the staff of the SEC. The registration rights agreement provides that if we failed to timely file the registration statement, or if it should not be declared effective within the prescribed time, we are subject to liquidated damages payable in cash equal to 2% of the aggregate purchase price of the securities up to a maximum of 12% of the total proceeds of the offering. We have yet to file the registration statement. Because we did not timely file the registration statement, during the fourth quarter of 2010 we accrued registration rights penalties of $602,040 which is payable in cash to the investors in that offering. Cook Inlet Energy’s operations are subject to oversight by the Alaska DNR and the Cook Inlet Energy oil and gas leases could be terminated if it fails to uphold the terms of the Assignment Oversight Agreement. If these leases were terminated, we would be unable to continue our operations as they are presently conducted and could be liable for significant additional costs associated with decommissioning the Osprey platform. Cook Inlet Energy is a party to an Assignment Oversight Agreement with the Alaska DNR that was entered into in November 2009 as a condition of the sale of the oil and gas leases from Pacific Energy Resources to Cook Inlet Energy. The agreement states that its intent is to ensure that there were sufficient funds, and that those funds are only spent, to fulfill Cook Inlet Energy’s initial development, operation, and dismantlement obligations under the assigned leases, applicable statutes and regulations. Those commitments include approximately $5.15 million to be used by Cook Inlet Energy to restore base production at the West McArthur River Unit Facility and approximately $31 million to support restoration of base production at the Redoubt Unit. Internally we have increased that requirement to $35 million to accommodate the purchase of a drilling rig for the Osprey platform. During the interim period, Cook Inlet Energy has fulfilled its commitment to restore base production from the West McArthur River Unit. However, we remain obligated to restore base production from the Redoubt Unit. We will need to either close the funding commitment from Vulcan Capital Corporation or raise the necessary capital from third parties. As a result of the restrictive covenants of the March 2010 unit offering, our ability to raise additional capital is limited. If we are unable to raise the capital as necessary to fully fund the commitment made in connection with the Assignment Oversight Agreement, the State of Alaska could terminate all of the Cook Inlet leases which would be a material adverse event to our company. Our operations would be limited to the Appalachian region and it is unlikely we would be able to continue our operations as they are presently conducted. In addition, we would then be obligated to fund the decommissioning and abandonment of the Osprey platform, which could cost as much as $40 million, of which only app roximately $6.6 million has been escrowed with Alaska. Oil and gas prices fluctuate due to a number of uncontrollable factors, creating a component of uncertainty in our development plans and overall operations. Declines in prices adversely affect our financial results and rate of growth in proved reserves and production. Oil and gas markets are very volatile, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. The prices we receive for our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in global supply and demand for oil and gas, the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the level of global oil and gas exploration and production activity, weather conditions, technological advances affecting energy consumption, domestic and foreign governmental regulations and tax policies, proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and other transportation facilities and transportation costs and the price and technological advancement of alternative fuels. The downward pressure in oil and natural gas prices that began in the last half of 2008 continued in 2010. The average realized gas price per thousand standard cubic feet (Mscf) for 2010 decreased 40% from 2009 and the average realized oil price per barrel for 2010 decreased 9% from 2009. The decrease in prices significantly decreased the amount available to invest in exploration and development drilling and the present value of our proved reserves. Our proved oil and gas reserves and production volumes decrease in quantity unless we successfully replace the reserves we produce with new discoveries or acquisitions. For the foreseeable future, we expect to make substantial capital investments for the exploration and development of new oil and gas reserves to replace the reserves we produce, to increase our daily production and to increase our total proved reserves. It will be necessary for us to raise additional capital to fund these expenditu res. Low prices also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can economically produce and may cause us to curtail, delay or defer certain exploration and development projects. 21 The global economic crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The economic situation could have an impact on potential lenders, purchasers of our oil and gas production and working interest owners in properties we operate, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will affect materially the quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves are prepared by independent petroleum engineers and geologists. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond our control and that of our engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices and expenditures for future development drilling and exploration activities, and of engineering and g eological interpretation and judgment. Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions, based upon production history, development drilling and exploration activities and prices of oil and natural gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development drilling expenditures, operating expenses, underlying information, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and underlying information set forth herein. Approximately 74% of our total estimated proved reserves at April 30, 2010 were proved undeveloped reserves. In addition, there are no assurances that probable and possible reserves will be converted to proved reserves. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data included in the reserve engineer reports assumes that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves. Although cost and reserve estimates attributable to our natural gas and crude oil reserves have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, we cannot be sure that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. We also have a significant amount of probable and possible reserves at April 30, 2010. There is significant uncertainty attached to probable and possible reserve estimates. Proved reserves are more likely to be produced than probable reserves and probable reserves are more likely to be produced than possible reserves. There are no assurance s that we can develop probable or possible reserves into probable reserves, or that if developed, probable reserves will become producing reserves to the level of the estimates. There are no assurances that we will be able to extend the Susitna Basin Exploration License. Included in the Alaskan assets we acquired is the Susitna Basin Exploration License granted by the State of Alaska covering approximately 471,474 acres which expires in October 2010. The acreage which is the subject of this exploration license represents approximately 84% of our net undeveloped acreage at April 30, 2010. Under the terms of the exploration license, providing that the work commitment of approximately $3.5 million was fulfilled, during the exploration license term the licensee has the right to convert the license for all or a portion of the acreage into oil and gas leases. This original work commitment was met by the prior licensee and we presently have the right to convert the license into leases. Once the exploration license is converted into oil and gas leases, we are required to pay a per acre fee to the state and commence drilling operations within specified timeframes. In an effort to control the timing of the development of this acreage, in April 2010 we requested a three year extension of the exploration license for a work commitment of $750,000. While we reasonably believe the state will grant our request for extension, there are no assurances we are correct, or that if granted, that the terms and conditions of the extension will be satisfactory to us. If we are unable to negotiate an extension, it is likely we will convert the license for only a 22 portion of the land into oil and gas leases. The loss of the remaining rights would reduce the acreage which we could develop into proved, producing reserves. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this annual report is the current market value of our estimated natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves are based on prices and costs on the date of the estimate, held flat for the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. Actual future net cash flows will also be affected by increases or decreases in consumption by oil and gas purchasers and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both the production and the incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and gas properties affects the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves. In addition, the 10% discount fa ctor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor. Our industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation that may limit our operations and negatively impact our production. As a result of increased enforcement of existing regulations and potential new regulations following the Gulf oil spill, the costs for complying with government regulation could increase. Extensive Federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations in the United States affect all of our operations. Environmental laws to which we are subject in the U.S. include, but are not limited to, the Clean Air Act and comparable state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling, storage, treatment or disposal of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which our hazardous substances have been transported for disposal, and the Clean Water Act, and comparable state laws that regulate discharges of wastewater from our facilities to state and federal waters. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or newly adopted laws or regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements on such operations. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and analogous state laws, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or hydrocarbons have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or other waste products into the environment. Environmental legislation may require that we do the following: · acquire permits before commencing drilling; · restrict spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with our operations; · limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; · take reclamation measures to prevent pollution from former operations; · take remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells and remedying contaminated soil and groundwater; and · take remedial measures with respect to property designated as a contaminated site. There is inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions and water discharges related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. The costs of any of these liabilities are presently unknown but could be significant. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. In addition, we are unable to predict what impact the Gulf oil spill will have on independent oil and gas companies 23 such as our company. For instance, companies such as ours currently pay an $0.08 per barrel tax on all oil produced in the U.S. which is contributed to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. There are pending proposals to raise this tax to $0.18 to $0.25 per barrel. It is also probable that there will be increased enforcement of existing regulations and adoption of new regulations which will also increase our cost of doing business which would reduce our operating profits in future periods. The effects of future environmental legislation on our business are unknown but could be substantial. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Changes in, or enforcement of, environmental laws may result in a curtailment of our production activities, or a material increase in the costs of production, development drilling or exploration, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or prospects. In addition, many countries, as well as several states in the United States have agreed to regulate emissions of “greenhouse gases.” Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning natural gas, are greenhouse gases. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact some of our operations and demand for products in the future. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, has authority to impose penalties for violations of the Natural Gas Act, up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. FERC has recently proposed and adopted regulations that may subject our facilities to reporting and posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with FERC regulations could subject us to civil penalties. Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by others. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of drilling plans for properties. The lack of availability of these facilities for an extended period of time could negatively affect our revenues. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. Our business involves many operating risks that may result in substantial losses for which insurance may be unavailable or inadequate. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for oil and gas, such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, formations with abnormal pressures, casing collapses, uncontrollable flows of underground gas, blowouts, surface cratering, pipeline ruptures or cement failures, and environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damages, regulatory investigations and penalties, suspension of our operations and repair and remediation costs. In addition, our liability for environmental hazards may include conditions created by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. We do not believe that insurance cover age for all environmental damages that could occur is available at a reasonable cost. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could harm our financial condition and results of operation. Our Cook Inlet Basin leases and our Osprey Platform are located in a region of active volcanoes and we could be subject to the adverse impacts of natural disasters. The Cook Inlet region contains active volcanoes, including Augustine Volcano, Mount Spurr and Mount Redoubt, and volcanic eruptions in this region have been associated with earthquakes and tsunamis and debris avalanches have also resulted in tsunamis. In 2009 the Cook Inlet Pipeline Co. suspended operations on several 24 occasions as a result of the spring 2009 major eruption of Mount Redoubt which also resulted in a shutdown of the Drift River Oil Terminal. Our operations in this area are subject to all of the inherent risks associated with operations in a geographical region which is subject to natural disasters and we are susceptible to the risk of damage to our operations and assets located in the Cook Inlet Basin. While our facilities are engineered to withstand seismic activity, and the current tight line configuration should allow us to continue shipments through an active volcanic period without much interruption, we do not maintain business interruption insurance which could adversely impact our results of operations as the result of lost revenues in future periods. We may be subject to certain conflicts of interest related to Miller Energy Income 2009 -A, LP which may not be resolved in a manner favorable to our company. A wholly owned subsidiary of our company is the general partner of Miller Energy Income 2009-A, LP ("MEI") and Messrs. Miller, Boruff and Boyd are officers of MEI. In November and December 2009 we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $2.7 million from MEI under the terms of four year secured notes. In the event there should be a dispute under this loan, there are no assurances that it will be resolved in our favor. We asked a third party to hold in escrow titles to substantial company drilling equipment to serve as collateral for these loans. In the event of a dispute under this loan, we could lose ownership of this equipment which we need to perform drilling and drilling services. In that event, we would be unable to continue our operations as they are presently conducted which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in future periods. There are no assurances that decisions Messrs.&nb sp;Miller, Boruff and/or Boyd make in matters related to MEI will be beneficial to us. Certain of our outstanding warrants contain cashless exercise provisions which means we will not receive any cash proceeds upon their exercise. At July 22, 2010 we have common stock warrants outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 2,910,000 shares of our common stock with an average exercise price of $1.21 per share which are exercisable on a cashless basis. This means that the holders, rather than paying the exercise price in cash, may surrender a number of warrants equal to the exercise price of the warrants being exercised. It is possible that the warrant holders will utilize the cashless exercise feature which will deprive us of additional capital which might otherwise be obtained if the warrants did not contain a cashless feature. A large portion of our outstanding common shares are “restricted securities” and we have outstanding options, warrants and purchase rights to purchase approximately 47% of our currently outstanding common stock. At July 22, 2010 we had 33,389,383 shares of common stock outstanding together with outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 11,976,955 shares of common stock at exercise prices of between $0.01 and $6.53 per share and $1,285,000 principal amount of convertible notes which are convertible into 2,336,364 shares of common stock at a conversion price of $0.55 per share. Of our outstanding shares of common stock at July 22, 2010, approximately 16,426,863 shares are "restricted securities." Future sales of restricted common stock under Rule 144 or otherwise could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, in the event of the exercise of the warrants and options and the conversion of the notes, the number of our outstanding common stock will increase by approximately 32%, which will have a dilutive effect on our existing shareholders. The impacts of non-cash gains and losses from derivative liability accounting in future periods could materially impact our financial results. As a result of the terms of the March 2010 unit offering, as well as the terms of other recent financing transactions we have entered into in 2010, our financial statements for the year ended April 30, 2010 were impacted by the accounting effect of the application of derivative accounting. We anticipate that our financial statements in future periods will also be impacted. The application of EITF 07-05 “Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) is Indexed to a Company's Own Stock,” which was effective on January 1, 2009 will significantly affect the application of ASC Topic 815 and ASC Topic 815-40 for both freestanding and embedded derivative financial instruments in our financial statements. Generally, warrants, conversion features in debt, and similar terms that in clude “full-ratchet” or reset provisions, which mean that the exercise or conversion price adjusts to pricing in subsequent sales or issuances, no longer meet the definition of indexed to a company's own stock and are not exemption for equity classification provided in ASC Topic 815-15. This means that instruments that were previously classified in equity will require reclassification to liabilities and ongoing measurement under ASC Topic 815. As a result of the application of this accounting principle, we recorded a current derivative liability of $720,840 25 and a long-term derivative liability of $16,708,947 at April 30, 2010. Beginning in the first quarter of 2011, we expect to record either a gain or loss based upon the market price of our common stock. The amount of quarterly non-cash gains or losses we will record in future periods is unknown at this time as the measurement is based upon the fair market value of our common stock on the measurement date. It is likely, however, that these non-cash gains or losses could have a material impact on our financial results in future periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 