ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The recent global economic downturn may continue to harm our business. The recent global economic downturn has caused disruptions and volatility in global financial markets, economic uncertainty, high unemployment levels, high consumer debt levels, limited availability of credit to customers, and declining consumer and business confidence, which has led to decreased levels of consumer spending. These macroeconomic developments have and could continue to negatively impact our business, which depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending in the United States and other parts of the world. Consumer spending may not return to normal levels for an extended period of time. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales, open and operate new stores, or maintain or improve our earnings. To the extent that the recovery of the global economy is inhibited, and economic conditions such as unemployment levels and consumer spending do not return to pre-recession levels, our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Further, we work with a large number of small vendors some of whom have been or may be significantly impacted by the economic downturn. If a number of these vendors fail, the delays and costs that we would likely incur in replacing them and in finding replacement goods and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to continue our current level of sales and earnings, which could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. In recent years we realized substantial growth in both sales and earnings, including growth during the recent economic downturn. We do not expect such growth, if any, to continue at these historical rates. Many factors have affected, and will continue to affect, our performance. We expect that future increases in net sales and net income, if any, will be dependent on our ability, among other factors, to expand our newer growth concept, Crazy 8, and improve its financial performance; to expand all of our retail concepts internationally; to generate more sales to existing customers in the core Gymboree division through growth of the Boy department business; and to attract new customers and increase sales to existing customers by leveraging the Company’s loyalty program, direct mail campaigns and other marketing efforts. Other factors that could impact our sales and earnings growth are discussed in this section. Any decline in our sales or earnings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our comparable store sales fluctuate over time, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future. Our comparable store sales are affected by a number of factors, including economic conditions, our merchandise 7 Table of Contents assortment, inventory levels, weather conditions, timing of our promotional offerings, competition, regulatory changes, and the overall retail environment. The investment community often tracks comparable store sales, therefore a decline or significant fluctuation in comparable store sales, or a failure to meet investor expectations of comparable store sales, could materially affect the market price of our common stock. Our business may be negatively impacted by consumer product safety laws, regulations or related legal actions. Our products are subject to consumer product safety laws, as well as regulations and standards with respect to product quality and safety set by various governmental authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. New consumer product safety laws or changes to existing laws and regulations may make certain products unsalable or require us to incur significant compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and stock price. One such new law is the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, which imposes significant requirements relating to the presence of lead and other substances in apparel and accessories, as well as enhances the penalties for noncompliance. Our inability, or that of our vendors or manufacturers, to comply on a timely basis with such laws and regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could adversely affect our reputation and earnings. Although we currently test products sold in our stores and at our Gymboree Play & Music sites, we have in the past and may in the future need to recall products that we later determine may present safety issues. If we or the Consumer Product Safety Commission recall a product sold in our stores, we could experience negative publicity and product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position and earnings. Our results may be adversely affected by our failure to anticipate and respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. Our sales and profitability depend upon the continued demand by customers for our apparel and accessories. We believe that our success depends in large part upon our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demands and fashion trends and upon the appeal of our products. Further, current economic conditions and levels of discretionary spending also affect fashion trends and preferences. We may not be able to anticipate, gauge, and respond effectively to changes in fashion trends, and the demand for our apparel or accessories may decline as a result. In addition, since much of our inventory is sourced from vendors located outside the United States, we usually must order merchandise, and enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of such merchandise, up to nine months in advance of the applicable selling season and frequently before trends are known. A decline in demand for our apparel and accessories or a misjudgment of fashion trends could, among other things, lead to lower sales, excess inventories and higher markdowns, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our newer concepts and businesses require a substantial commitment of resources and are not certain of ultimate success. Our ongoing efforts to develop, launch and grow new divisions, businesses and brands, such as Crazy 8, require significant capital expenditures and management attention. Our commitment of management resources and capital to a new concept means that those resources and capital are unavailable for our other activities and operations. Our decision to launch or expand a new business is based on our assessment that a significant opportunity exists in the marketplace. Our ability to successfully launch or expand a new business depends in part on our ability to appropriately identify, develop and effectively execute our strategies and initiatives. Failure to do so effectively may lead to increased costs and lower sales, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 8 Table of Contents We have opened new businesses in the past that were ultimately unsuccessful, such as the Janeville division, which we opened in fiscal 2004 and closed in fiscal 2006. There can be no assurance that new business concepts will be successful, and our incurrence of expenses in the launch of new business concepts that do not ultimately succeed could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, new business concepts may cannibalize existing business concepts. If such cannibalization is significant, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Competition and the strength of our competitors may impair our ability to maintain or grow our sales and adversely affect our operating results. The apparel segment of the specialty retail industry is highly competitive. The principal factors of competition for retail sales are product design, product quality, brand image, customer service and pricing. Our Gymboree, Gymboree Outlet, Janie and Jack, and Crazy 8 brands compete on a national level with BabyGap and GapKids (divisions of Gap Inc.), certain leading department stores operating in malls, outlet centers or street locations, certain discount retail chains such as Old Navy (a division of Gap Inc.), The Children’s Place, Wal-Mart, Target and Carter’s, as well as a wide variety of local and regional specialty stores, certain other retail chains, and children’s retailers that sell their products by mail order, online or through outlet malls. Many of these competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. Increased competition may reduce sales and gross margins, and increase operating expenses, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to successfully operate if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel, or experience turnover of our management team. Our continued success is largely dependent on the individual efforts and abilities of our senior management team and certain other key personnel and on our ability to retain current management and to attract and retain qualified key personnel in the future. The loss of certain key employees or our inability to continue to attract and retain other qualified key employees could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operations and financial position. Our business may be harmed by additional United States regulation of foreign trade or delays caused by additional United States customs requirements. Our business is subject to the risk that the United States may adopt additional regulations relating to imported apparel products, including quotas, duties, taxes and other charges or restrictions on imported apparel. We cannot predict whether additional United States quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of our products in the future, or what effect any such actions would have on our business, financial position and operating results. If the United States government imposes any such charges or restrictions, our supply of products could be disrupted and their cost could substantially increase, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Unforeseen delays in customs clearance of any goods could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver complete shipments to our stores in a timely manner, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Because we purchase our products abroad, our business is sensitive to risks associated with international business. Our products are currently manufactured to our specifications by independent factories located primarily in Asia. As a result, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, currency fluctuations, adverse conditions such as epidemics, natural disasters, wars, acts of terrorism, social or political unrest, disruptions or delays in transportation or customs clearance, local business practices and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our suppliers are located. We cannot predict the effect of such factors on our business relationships with foreign suppliers or on our ability to deliver products into our stores in a timely manner. If even a small portion of our current foreign manufacturing sources or textile mills were to cease doing business with us for any reason, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. 9 Table of Contents In addition, we are currently pursuing strategies to reduce product costs. These strategies may result in sourcing product from factories from which we have not previously purchased products and which may be in countries in which we have not done business before. Further, labor costs and commodity costs (such as cotton) are currently increasing in some of the countries where our products are manufactured. Increased labor and commodity costs, together with the volatility in fuel prices and foreign exchange rates, may impact our ability to reduce product costs. We are dependent on one facility for distribution of product to all of our stores. We handle merchandise distribution for all of our stores from a single facility in Dixon, California. Any significant interruption in the operation of this distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores, which could cause sales to decline and have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. In addition, we use an automated unit sortation system to manage the order processing for all of our direct-to-consumer businesses. In the event that this single unit sortation system becomes inoperable for any reason, we would not be able to ship all direct-to-consumer orders in the timely manner that our customers expect. As a result, we could experience a reduction in our direct-to-consumer business, which could negatively impact sales and profitability. We may be subject to negative publicity or be sued if our manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that our customers believe are unethical. We require our independent manufacturers to operate their businesses in compliance with the laws and regulations that apply to them. Our sourcing personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, but we cannot control their business and labor practices. We also rely on an independent third party to audit our factories on an annual basis. If an independent manufacturer violates or is suspected of violating labor laws or other applicable regulations, or if a manufacturer engages in labor or other practices that diverge from those typically acceptable in the United States and the other countries in which we operate, we could in turn experience negative publicity or be sued. Negative publicity or legal actions regarding our manufacturers or the production of our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, sales, business, financial position and operating results. The loss of a key buying agent could disrupt our ability to deliver our inventory supply in a timely fashion, impacting its value. One buying agent manages approximately 90% of our inventory purchases. Although we believe that other buying agents could be identified and retained to place our required foreign production, the loss of this buying agent could result in delays in procuring inventory, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are dependent on third parties for critical business functions, and their failure to provide services to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We rely on third parties for critical functions involving credit card processing and store communications. These third parties may experience financial difficulties and unforeseen business disruptions that could adversely affect their ability to perform their contractual obligations to us, including their obligations to comply with Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards. Any such failure to provide services to us or to comply with PCI security requirements could impact our internal communications systems, including our ability to accept payment cards, which could have an adverse impact on business operations and lead to lower sales. Although we believe that other vendors could be identified and retained to provide these services, a change in vendors would take time and could result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Damage to our computer systems could severely impair our ability to manage our business. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect the computer systems we use to manage our purchase orders, store inventory levels, web applications, accounting functions and other critical aspects of our business. Our systems are vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. We have computer systems in each of our stores, with the main database servers for our systems located in San Francisco, California, which is located on or near known earthquake fault zones. An earthquake or other disaster could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results not only by damaging our stores or corporate headquarters, but also by damaging our main servers, which could disrupt our business for an indeterminate length of time. Our business may be harmed if our computer network security is compromised. Despite our considerable efforts and technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information, such as customer credit card numbers, could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. These events could lead to adverse publicity or loss of sales and could cause us to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages which could adversely impact profits. We believe that we are currently compliant with PCI data security standards, which require annual audits by independent qualified security assessors to assess compliance. Failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment cards. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to satisfy PCI security standards. In addition, PCI is controlled by a limited number of vendors who have the ability to impose changes in PCI’s fee structure and operational requirements without negotiation. Such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with PCI security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. Our ability to successfully implement significant information technology systems is critical to our business. We plan to continue to upgrade our information technology infrastructure. Such technology systems changes are complex and could cause disruptions that may adversely affect our business. While management strives to ensure the orderly implementation of various information technology systems, we may not be able to successfully execute these changes without potentially incurring a significant disruption to our business. Even if we are successful with implementation, we may not achieve the expected benefits from these initiatives, despite having expended significant capital. We may also determine that additional investment is required to bring our systems to their desired state; this could result in a significant additional investment of time and money and increased implementation risk. Furthermore, we intend to rely on third parties to fulfill contractual obligations related to some of these system upgrades. Failure of these third parties to fulfill their contractual obligations could lead to significant expenses or losses due to a disruption in business operations. Our operating and financial performance in any given period might not meet the guidance that we have provided to the public. We provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods. Although we believe that this guidance gives investors and analysts a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future, and is useful to our shareholders and potential shareholders, such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements that are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. Our guidance may not be accurate, particularly in periods of economic disruption such as the recent global economic downturn. If in the future our operating or financial results for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts, or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. Further, frequent changes in guidance could increase the volatility of our stock price. 11 Table of Contents We must timely and effectively deliver merchandise to our stores and customers. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect our fulfillment rates for online sales and timely and effective merchandise delivery to our stores. We rely upon third-party carriers for our merchandise shipments to and from stores and reliable data regarding the timing of those shipments. In addition, we are heavily dependent upon two carriers for the delivery of our merchandise to online customers. Labor disputes, union organizing activity, inclement weather, natural disasters and acts of terrorism could affect those carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. Failure to deliver merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and sales. Our online businesses face distinct operating risks. The successful operation of our online businesses depends on efficient and uninterrupted operation of our order-taking and fulfillment operations. Disruptions or slowdowns in these areas could result from disruptions in telephone service or power outages, inadequate system capacity, system issues, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. Our online businesses are generally vulnerable to additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changes in required technology and other technical failures, as well as changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, and consumer privacy concerns. Problems in any of these areas could result in a reduction in sales, increased costs and damage to our reputation and brands. Our efforts to expand internationally through franchising and similar arrangements may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands. We have entered into a franchise agreement with an unaffiliated third party to operate stores in certain countries in the Middle East. Under this agreement, third parties will operate stores that sell apparel, purchased from us, under the Gymboree name. We have no experience managing an apparel retail franchise relationship and this arrangement may not be successful. While we expect that this will be a small part of our business in the near future, we plan to continue to increase these types of arrangements over time as part of our efforts to expand internationally. The effect of these arrangements on our business and operating results is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. In addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control. Other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and political instability. Moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our Gymboree brand identity and customer experience standards, the value of our Gymboree brand could be impaired. A failure to protect the value of our Gymboree brand or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee could have an adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation. Our efforts to expand internationally through wholly owned operations may not be successful. We currently operate retail stores in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. In addition to our international expansion through franchising and similar arrangements, we also plan for direct international expansion in the future, starting with the opening of two Gymboree retail stores in Australia in fiscal 2010. We have no experience operating retail stores in Australia. In addition, we operated retail stores in the United Kingdom and Ireland in the past, which were ultimately unsuccessful, and we may not be successful executing our international expansion strategy through wholly owned operations. Our success will depend on our ability to, among other factors, secure leases for retail spaces with demographic characteristics consistent with our customer base, hire qualified personnel, and tailor our marketing messages and product to reflect the customs of the countries in which we intend to operate. Failure to successfully expand internationally through wholly owned operations could have a significant impact on our growth rate, which could materially affect the market price for our common stock. 12 Table of Contents Our growth would be hampered if we are unable to locate new stores and relocate existing stores in appropriate retail venues and shopping areas. Our stores must be located in appropriate retail spaces in areas with demographic characteristics consistent with our customer base. These locations tend to be limited to malls and similar venues where the market for available space has historically been very competitive. The location of acceptable store sites and the negotiation of acceptable lease arrangements require considerable time, effort and expense. Our ability to lease desirable retail space for expansion and relocation of stores, and to renew our existing store leases, on favorable economic terms is essential to our revenue and earnings growth. Approximately 70, 60 and 70 store leases will come up for renewal during fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We are also in the process of negotiating lease terms for approximately 70 stores, which are currently operating under month-to-month terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, effectively manage our growth, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations, or profitably operate our new and remodeled stores. Failure to obtain and renew leases for a sufficient number of stores on acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and service marks on a worldwide basis. We are not aware of any material claims of infringement or material challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks and service marks in the United States. Nevertheless, the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may be a party to legal proceedings that could result in unexpected adverse outcomes. From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, there are an increasing number of cases being filed, particularly against retailers, that contain class action allegations under federal and state wage and hour laws. We evaluate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish reserves for the estimated liabilities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties. Although not currently anticipated by management, unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in management’s evaluations or predictions, could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate. We are subject to income taxes in substantially all tax jurisdictions in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of uncertain tax positions. At any time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may impact the ultimate settlement of these tax positions. As a result, we expect that there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are re-evaluated. Further, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings. We are also subject to sales and use taxes, as well as other local taxes, in substantially all tax jurisdictions in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. At any time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may adversely impact the ultimate settlement of these tax positions and our financial results. 13 Table of Contents Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining a large and growing number of qualified team members. Many of those team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation, health care legislation and changing demographics. In addition, our labor costs are influenced by health care and workers’ compensation costs, both of which have been rising in recent years. If we cannot hire enough qualified employees, or if there is a disruption in the supply of personnel we hire from third-party providers, especially during our peak season or certain high-volume events, our customer service levels and our operations could be negatively impacted. Changes in seasonal consumer spending patterns that are beyond our control could harm our business. Historically, a significant portion of our retail sales have been realized during the holiday season in November and December. We have also experienced periods of increased sales activity in the early spring, during the period leading up to the Easter holiday, and in the early fall, in connection with back-to-school sales. Changes in seasonal consumer spending patterns for reasons beyond our control could result in lower-than-expected sales during these periods. For example, the nature and pace of the recovery from the recent global economic downturn may have unanticipated effects on consumer spending patterns. Such circumstances could cause us to have excess inventory, necessitating markdowns to dispose of these excess inventories, which would reduce our profitability. Any failure by us to meet our business plan for, in particular, the third or fourth quarter of any fiscal year would have a material adverse effect on our earnings, which in all likelihood would not be offset by satisfactory results achieved in other quarters of the same fiscal year in which sales are less concentrated. Also, because we typically spend more in labor costs during the holiday season to hire temporary store employees in anticipation of holiday spending, a shortfall in expected sales during that period could result in a disproportionate decrease in our net income. Our growth would be hampered if we are unable to successfully open new stores. We plan to open approximately 100 to 125 new stores in fiscal 2010, including 2 Gymboree stores in Australia. Our growth depends in large part on our ability to successfully open new stores in both the United States and abroad, which in turn is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to hire and train skilled store operating and management teams, secure appropriate retail space, and complete construction within planned timelines and budgets. There can be no assurance that we will successfully open the number of stores planned for fiscal 2010, and the resulting impact on our growth rate could materially affect the market price for our common stock. Our performance is dependent on customer traffic in shopping malls. We are dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as a shopping destination, and the ability of shopping mall anchor tenants and other attractions to generate customer traffic. A sluggish recovery of the United States economy or an uncertain economic outlook could continue to lower consumer spending levels and cause a decrease in shopping mall traffic, each of which would adversely affect our growth, sales, and profitability. Further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, or public health concern, including infectious diseases, that decreases the level of mall traffic or other shopping traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in affected areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we lease a large number of our stores in malls owned and operated by highly leveraged real estate development companies. The inability of any one of these companies to refinance its debt when it comes due could result in mall closures or in foreclosures and distress sales of the mall properties. The closure of a mall or a change of ownership that results in changes or disruptions in mall operations, changes in tenant mix or otherwise impacts the character of the mall could affect our stores in those malls and could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 14 Table of Contents We may acquire businesses in the future to support long-term growth. We have no experience acquiring and integrating businesses into our organization and we may not be successful. We regularly evaluate businesses as potential acquisition targets to support our long-term growth. The Company has not acquired businesses in the past and has no experience acquiring, integrating and growing existing businesses. The acquisition of a business would divert management’s attention from our existing brands and operations, require significant operational support, and increase demands on systems and staffing. All of these effects could negatively impact our existing business. In addition, the acquisition and integration of an acquired business could result in significant additional costs that could negatively impact our working capital position, cash flow, operating results and stock price. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business and operating results. There has been significant volatility in the value of the United States dollar against other foreign currencies in the recent past. While our business is primarily conducted in United States dollars, we purchase substantially all of our products overseas (primarily from China, Indonesia, India and Thailand). Cost increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the third-party manufacturers that produce our apparel by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Such fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings as a result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 