Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial performance is subject to various risks and uncertainties. The risks described below are those which we believe are the material risks we face. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, sales, revenues, gross profit, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Certain Other Obligations Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. As a result of the Transactions (as defined under “Item 6. Selected Financial Data”), we are highly leveraged. The following chart shows our indebtedness as of February 2, 2013: February 2, 2013 ($ in millions) Term Loan(1) $ 769 ABL Facility(1) — 9.125% senior notes due 2018 (“Notes”) 371 Total indebtedness $ 1,140 (1) The Company’s senior credit facilities (collectively, the “Senior Credit Facilities”) are comprised of an $820 million secured term loan agreement (“Term Loan”) and a $225 million asset backed revolving credit facility (“ABL Facility”). Amounts available under the ABL Facility are subject to customary borrowing base limitations and are reduced by letter of credit utilization. The Senior Credit Facilities also allow an aggregate of $200 million in uncommitted incremental facilities, the availability of which is subject to our meeting certain conditions. No incremental facilities are currently in effect. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences. For example, it could: — make it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; — increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; — require a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; — expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as the borrowings under our Senior Credit Facilities will be at variable rates of interest; — restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; — limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and — limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. The terms of the indenture governing the Notes and the Senior Credit Facilities permit us to incur a substantial amount of additional debt, including secured debt. Any additional borrowings under the Senior Credit Facilities, and any other secured debt, would be effectively senior to the Notes and any guarantees thereof to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks that we now face as a result of our leverage would intensify. 5 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes contain various covenants that limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock, make certain acquisitions or investments, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, materially change our business, incur or permit to exist certain liens, enter into transactions with affiliates or sell our assets to, or merge or consolidate with or into, another company. Further, our ability to comply with such covenants under the indenture may be affected by actions taken by the variable interest entities which we do not control, but the results of which we have consolidated into our financial statements and which are treated as restricted subsidiaries under the indenture governing the Notes (see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report). In addition to the foregoing covenants, under certain circumstances, the ABL Facility requires us to satisfy a financial test. Our ability to satisfy this test may be affected by events outside of our control. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Senior Credit Facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit Facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the Senior Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral under the Senior Credit Facilities. If the lenders under the Senior Credit Facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay the Senior Credit Facilities, as well as our other secured and unsecured indebtedness, including the Notes. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future. This ability is, to a significant extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available under our Senior Credit Facilities, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In any such circumstance, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the Senior Credit Facilities and the Notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and investments. Any such action, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our Senior Credit Facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our Senior Credit Facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Risks Related to the Business Global economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. During the recent economic recession, global financial markets experienced extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction. The volatility and disruption to the capital markets significantly and adversely affected global economic conditions, resulting in additional significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, consumer and business confidence, disposable income and actual and perceived wealth. Although there have been some recent improvements, continuing or worsened adverse economic conditions, including higher unemployment, gasoline, energy and health care costs, taxes and tighter credit, could continue to affect consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending adversely and may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, renewed financial turmoil in the financial and credit markets could adversely affect our costs of capital and the sources of liquidity available to us. 6 Table of Contents Further, we work with a large number of small vendors, some of whom have been or may be significantly impacted by any of the factors described above. If a number of these vendors fail, the delays and costs that we would likely incur in replacing them and in finding replacement goods and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our results may be adversely affected by our failure to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences in a timely manner. Our sales and profitability depend upon the continued demand by customers for our apparel and accessories. We believe that our success depends in large part upon our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demands and preferences and upon the appeal of our products. Further, current economic conditions and levels of discretionary spending also affect consumer preferences. We may not be able to anticipate, gauge and respond effectively to changes in consumer preferences, and, as a result, the demand for our apparel or accessories may decline. In addition, since much of our inventory is sourced from vendors located outside the United States, we usually must order merchandise and enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of such merchandise, up to nine months in advance of the applicable selling season and frequently before trends are known. A decline in demand for our apparel and accessories or a misjudgment could, among other things, lead to lower sales, excess inventories and higher markdowns, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Changes in seasonal consumer spending patterns that are beyond our control could harm our business. Historically, a significant portion of our retail sales have been realized during the holiday season in November and December. We have also experienced periods of increased sales activity in the early spring, during the period leading up to the Easter holiday, and in the early fall, in connection with back-to-school sales. Changes in seasonal consumer spending patterns for reasons beyond our control could result in lower-than-expected sales during these periods. For example, the nature and pace of the recovery from the global economic downturn may have unanticipated effects on consumer spending patterns. Such circumstances could cause us to have excess inventory, necessitating markdowns to dispose of these excess inventories, which would reduce our profitability. Any failure by us to meet our business plan for, in particular, the third or fourth quarter of any fiscal year could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, which in all likelihood would not be offset by satisfactory results achieved in other quarters of the same fiscal year in which sales are less concentrated. Also, because we typically spend more in labor costs during the holiday season to hire temporary store employees in anticipation of increased holiday business volume, a shortfall in expected sales during that period could result in a disproportionate decrease in our net income. Our business may be negatively impacted by consumer product safety laws, regulations or related legal actions. Our products are subject to consumer product safety laws, as well as regulations and standards with respect to product quality and safety set by various governmental authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. New consumer product safety laws or changes to existing laws and regulations may make certain products unsalable or require us to incur significant compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Our inability, or that of our vendors or manufacturers, to comply on a timely basis with such laws and regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could adversely affect our reputation and earnings. Although we currently test products sold in our stores and at our Gymboree Play & Music sites, we have in the past recalled and may in the future need to recall products that we may later determine may present safety issues. If we or the Consumer Product Safety Commission recall a product sold in our stores, we could experience negative publicity and product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position and earnings. Increased production costs may adversely affect our results. We are affected by inflation and changing prices primarily through purchasing products from our global suppliers, increased operating costs and expenses, and fluctuations in interest rates. If our customers are resistant to paying higher prices for our products, and if we are unable to absorb increased costs of goods by reducing our manufacturing or supply chain costs or lowering our overall cost structure, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed by additional U.S. regulation of foreign trade or delays caused by additional U.S. customs requirements. Our business is subject to the risk that the United States may adopt additional regulations relating to imported apparel products, including quotas, duties, taxes and other charges or restrictions on imported apparel. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of our products in the future, or what effect any such actions would have on our business, financial position and operating results. If the U.S. government imposes any such charges or restrictions, our supply of products could be disrupted and their cost could substantially increase, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Unforeseen delays in customs clearance of any goods could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver complete shipments to our stores in a timely manner, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Competition and the strength of our competitors may impair our ability to maintain or grow our sales and adversely affect our operating results. The apparel segment of the specialty retail industry is highly competitive. The principal factors of competition for retail sales are product design, product quality, brand image, customer service and pricing. Our Gymboree, Janie and Jack and Crazy 8 brands compete on a national level with BabyGap and GapKids (divisions of Gap Inc.), department stores operating in malls, outlet centers or street locations, discount retail chains such as Old Navy (a division of Gap Inc.), The Children’s Place, Wal-Mart, Target and Carter’s, as well as a wide variety of local and regional specialty stores, other retail chains, and children’s retailers that sell their products by mail order, online or through outlet malls. Many of these competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. Increased competition may reduce sales and gross margins, and increase operating expenses, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Because we purchase our products abroad, our business is sensitive to risks associated with international business. Our products are currently manufactured to our specifications by independent factories located primarily in Asia. As a result, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, currency fluctuations, adverse conditions such as epidemics, natural disasters, wars, acts of terrorism, social or political unrest, disruptions or delays in transportation or customs clearance, local business practices and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our suppliers are located. We cannot predict the effect of such factors on our business relationships with foreign suppliers or on our ability to deliver products into our stores in a timely manner. If even a small portion of our current foreign manufacturing sources or textile mills were to cease doing business with us for any reason, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. If we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. Moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. Any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet consumer demand for our products and result in lower sales and net income. In addition, we are currently pursuing strategies to reduce product costs. These strategies may result in sourcing products from factories from which we have not previously purchased products and which may be in countries in which we have not done business before and may subject us to additional risk. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business and operating results. There has been significant volatility in the value of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies in the recent past. While our business is primarily conducted in U.S. dollars, we purchase substantially all of our products overseas (primarily from China, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Thailand and Vietnam). Cost increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the third-party manufacturers that produce our apparel by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Such fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings as a result. We are dependent on one facility for distribution of all of our merchandise. We handle merchandise distribution for all of our stores (including our three online stores) from a single facility in Dixon, California. Any significant interruption in the operation of this distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other events beyond our control or unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores or customers, which could cause sales to decline and have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. In addition, if the capacity of our distribution facility is exceeded (such as due to a high level of demand during peak periods), we may not be able to timely fulfill store and customer orders, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. 8 Table of Contents In addition, we use an automated unit sortation system to manage the order processing for all of our direct-to-consumer businesses. In the event that this unit sortation system becomes inoperable for any reason, we would not be able to ship all direct-to-consumer orders in the timely manner that our customers expect. As a result, we could experience a reduction in our direct-to-consumer business, which could negatively impact sales and profitability. We may be subject to negative publicity or legal action if our manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that our customers believe are unethical. We require our independent manufacturers to operate their businesses in compliance with the laws and regulations that apply to them. Our sourcing personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, but we cannot control their business or labor practices. We also rely on independent third parties to audit factories annually for compliance with safety and labor laws. If one of our independent manufacturers violates or is suspected of violating labor laws or other applicable regulations, or if such manufacturer engages in labor or other practices that diverge from those typically acceptable in the United States or any of the other countries in which we operate, we could in turn experience negative publicity or be subject to legal action. Negative publicity or legal actions regarding our manufacturers or the production of our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, sales, business, financial position and operating results. We are dependent on third parties for critical business functions, and their failure to provide services to us, or our inability to timely replace them when necessary, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We rely on third parties for critical functions involving credit card processing and store communications. These third parties may experience financial difficulties and unforeseen business disruptions that could adversely affect their ability to perform their contractual obligations to us, including their obligations to comply with Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards. Any such failure to provide services to us or to comply with PCI security requirements could impact our internal communications systems, including our ability to accept payment cards, which could have an adverse impact on business operations and lead to lower sales. Although we believe that other vendors could be identified and retained to provide these services, we may not find an adequate replacement timely, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and adverse publicity. Damage to our computer systems could severely impair our ability to manage our business. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect the computer systems we use to manage our purchase orders, store inventory levels, web applications, accounting functions and other critical aspects of our business. Our systems are vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. We have computer systems in each of our stores, with the main database servers for our systems located in San Francisco, California, and additional web site support systems located in Redwood City, California, which are located on or near known earthquake fault zones. An earthquake or other disaster could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results not only by damaging our stores or corporate headquarters, but also by damaging our main servers, which could disrupt our business for an indeterminate length of time. Our online businesses face distinct operating risks. The successful operation of our online businesses depends on efficient and uninterrupted operation of our order-taking and fulfillment operations. Disruptions or slowdowns in these areas could result from disruptions in telephone service or power outages, inadequate system capacity, system issues, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. Our online businesses are generally vulnerable to additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changes in required technology and other technical failures, as well as changes in applicable federal and state regulations, security breaches, and consumer privacy concerns. Problems in any of these areas could result in a reduction in sales, increased costs and damage to our reputation and brands. Our business may be harmed if our or our vendors’ computer network security or any of the databases containing customer or other personal information maintained by us or our third-party providers is compromised. The protection of customer, employee and company data in the information technology systems we utilize (including those maintained by third-party providers) is critical. Despite the efforts by us and our vendors to secure computer networks utilized for our business, security could be compromised, confidential information, such as customer credit card numbers or other personally identifiable customer information we or our vendors collect, could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. Improper activities by third parties, advances in technical capabilities, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a breach of our or our vendors’ computer network security. Any of these events could lead to costly investigations and litigation, as well as potential regulatory or other actions by governmental agencies. As a result of any of the foregoing, we may experience adverse publicity, loss of sales, the cost of remedial measures, and/or significant expenditures to reimburse third parties for damages, which could adversely impact our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We believe that we are currently compliant with PCI data security standards, which require annual audits by independent qualified security assessors to assess compliance. Failure by us or our vendors to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment cards, which could adversely affect our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to satisfy PCI security standards. In addition, PCI is controlled by a limited number of vendors who have the ability to impose changes in PCI’s fee structure and operational requirements without negotiation. Such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with PCI security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. Our ability to successfully implement significant information technology systems is critical to our business. Our information technology infrastructure is in regular need of upgrades, which we plan to continue to implement. Such technology systems changes are complex and could cause disruptions that may adversely affect our business, such as when our new or upgraded systems fail to perform adequately. While we strive to ensure the orderly implementation of various information technology systems, we may not be able to successfully execute these changes without potentially incurring a significant disruption to our business. Even if we are successful with implementation, we may not achieve the expected benefits from these initiatives, despite having expended significant capital. We may also determine that additional investment is required to bring our systems to their desired state, which could result in a significant investment of additional time and money and increased implementation risk. Furthermore, we intend to rely on third parties to fulfill contractual obligations related to some of these system upgrades. Failure of these third parties to fulfill their contractual obligations could lead to significant expenses or losses due to a disruption in business operations. We must timely and effectively deliver merchandise to our stores and customers. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect our fulfillment rates for online sales and timely and effective merchandise delivery to our stores. We rely upon third-party carriers for our merchandise shipments to and from stores and reliable data regarding the timing of those shipments. In addition, we are heavily dependent upon two carriers for the delivery of our merchandise to online customers. Labor disputes, union organizing activity, inclement weather, natural disasters and acts of terrorism could affect those carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. Failure to deliver merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and sales. Fluctuations in comparative store sales and results of operations could cause our business performance to decline substantially. Our results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Numerous factors affect our comparable store sales, including, among others, merchandise assortment, retail prices, fashion trends, weather conditions, mall traffic, the retail sales environment, calendar shifts of holidays or seasonal periods, timing of promotional events, macro-economic conditions and our success in executing our business strategies. Our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. Failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could cause our credit ratings to decline. We may not be able to successfully operate if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel, or experience turnover of our management team. As previously reported, we have recently had a number of changes to our executive management team. Our continued success is largely dependent on the individual efforts and abilities of our senior management team and certain other key personnel and on our ability to retain current management and to attract and retain qualified key personnel in the future. The loss of certain key employees or our inability to continue to attract and retain other qualified key employees could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operations and financial position. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining a large and growing number of qualified team members. Many of our team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation, health care legislation and changing demographics. In addition, our labor costs are influenced by health care and workers’ compensation costs, both of which have been rising in recent years. If we cannot hire enough qualified employees, or if there is a disruption in the supply of personnel we hire from third-party providers, especially during our peak season or certain high-volume events, our customer service levels and our operations could be negatively impacted. 10 Table of Contents The loss of a key buying agent could disrupt our ability to deliver our inventory supply in a timely fashion, impacting its value. One buying agent manages a substantial portion of our inventory purchases (approximately 72% in fiscal year 2012). Although we believe that other buying agents could be identified and retained to place our required foreign production, the loss of this buying agent could result in delays in procuring inventory, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are, and may continue to be in the future, a party to legal proceedings that could result in unexpected adverse outcomes. From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, there are an increasing number of cases being filed in the retail industry generally that contain class action allegations, such as such those relating to privacy and wage and hour laws. We evaluate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish reserves for the estimated liabilities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties. Although not currently anticipated by management, unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in management’s evaluations or predictions and accompanying changes in established reserves, could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our growth strategy includes the addition of a significant number of new stores each year. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully, on a timely basis, or at all. Our growth will largely depend on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores. We intend to continue to open new stores in future years. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other things, the current retail environment, the identification of suitable markets and sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, our ability to complete construction within planned timelines and budgets and the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis. Our expansion also will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. In addition, to the extent that our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. We expect to fund our expansion of Company-owned stores through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under our ABL Facility; however, if we experience a decline in performance, we may slow or discontinue store openings. We may not be able to execute any of these strategies successfully, on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to implement these strategies successfully, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our growth would be hampered if we are unable to identify new store locations and relocate existing stores in appropriate retail venues and shopping areas. Our stores must be located in appropriate retail spaces in areas with demographic characteristics consistent with our customer base. These locations tend to be limited to malls and similar venues where the market for available space has historically been very competitive. The location of acceptable store sites and the negotiation of acceptable lease arrangements require considerable time, effort and expense. Our ability to lease desirable retail space for expansion and relocation of stores, and to renew our existing store leases, on favorable economic terms is essential to our revenue and earnings growth. Approximately 120, 112 and 87 store leases will come up for renewal during fiscal 2013, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015, respectively. We are also in the process of negotiating lease terms for approximately 72 stores, which are currently operating under month-to-month terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, effectively manage our growth, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations, or profitably operate our new and remodeled stores. Failure to obtain and renew leases for a sufficient number of stores on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our efforts to expand internationally through franchising and similar arrangements may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands. We have entered into franchise agreements with unaffiliated third parties to operate stores in certain countries in the Middle East and in South Korea and with our affiliate (which we do not control) to operate stores in China. Under these agreements, third parties operate stores that sell apparel, purchased from us, under the Gymboree name. We have limited experience managing apparel retail franchise relationships and these arrangements may ultimately not be successful. While we expect that this will be a small part of our business in the near future, we plan to continue to increase these types of arrangements over time as part of our international expansion efforts. The effect of these arrangements on our business and operating results is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. In addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control. Other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and political instability. Moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, to the extent that these parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our Gymboree brand identity and customer experience standards, the value of our Gymboree brand could be impaired. A failure to protect the value of our Gymboree brand or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee could have an adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and service marks on a worldwide basis. We are not aware of any material claims of infringement or material challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks and service marks in the United States or abroad. Nevertheless, the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights of others, particularly as we continue to expand our business outside the United States. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate. We are subject to income taxes in federal and applicable state and local tax jurisdictions in the United States, Canada, China, Australia, Puerto Rico, Kuwait, Hong Kong and South Korea. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of uncertain tax positions. At any time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may impact the ultimate settlement of these tax positions. As a result, we expect that there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are re-evaluated. Further, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings. We are also subject to sales and use taxes, as well as other local taxes, in applicable jurisdictions in the United States, Canada, China, Australia, Puerto Rico, and South Korea. At any time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may adversely impact the ultimate settlement of these tax positions and our financial results. We may acquire businesses in the future to support long-term growth. We have limited experience acquiring and integrating businesses into our organization and we may not be successful. We regularly evaluate businesses as potential acquisition targets to support our long-term growth. We have not acquired significant businesses in the past and we have limited experience acquiring, integrating and growing existing businesses. The acquisition of a business could divert management’s attention from our existing brands and operations, require significant operational support and increase demands on systems and staffing. All of these effects could negatively impact our existing business. In addition, the acquisition and integration of an acquired business could result in significant additional costs that could negatively impact our working capital position, cash flow and operating results. Our performance is dependent on customer traffic in shopping malls. We are dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as a shopping destination and the ability of shopping mall anchor tenants and other attractions to generate customer traffic. A sluggish recovery of the United States economy or an uncertain economic outlook could continue to lower consumer spending levels and cause a decrease in shopping mall traffic, each of which could adversely affect our growth, sales, and profitability. Further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, or public health concern, including infectious diseases, that decreases the level of mall traffic or other shopping traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in affected areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 Table of Contents In addition, we lease a large number of our stores in malls owned and operated by highly leveraged real estate development companies. The inability of any one of these companies to refinance its debt when it comes due could result in mall closures or in foreclosures and distress sales of the mall properties. The closure of a mall or a change of ownership that results in changes or disruptions in mall operations, changes in tenant mix, or that otherwise impacts the character of the mall could affect the performance of our stores in those malls and could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 