Risk Factors.” That section, along with other sections of this Annual Report, describes some, but not all, of the factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations. When used in this document, the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” or “anticipates” and similar expressions are intended to identify certain of these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. The cautionary statements made in this document should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this document. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on information available as of the date of this report. We do not intend to revise any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that may subsequently arise. PART 1 ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Gymboree Corporation is a specialty retailer operating stores selling high quality apparel and accessories for children and women under the GYMBOREE®, JANIE AND JACK®, and JANEVILLE® brands, as well as play programs for children under the GYMBOREE PLAY & MUSIC® brand. The Company operates stores in the United States and Canada, primarily in regional shopping malls and in selected suburban and urban locations. All references to “we,” “our,” “us,” and the “Company” in this Annual Report mean The Gymboree Corporation and its subsidiaries. GENERAL As of January 28, 2006, the Company conducted its business through five primary divisions: Gymboree, Gymboree Outlet, Janie and Jack, Janeville and Gymboree Play & Music. Gymboree: Gymboree stores offer high quality, fashionable, child-appropriate apparel and accessories characterized by bright colors, patterns and whimsical graphics, complex embellishments, comfort, functionality, and durability for children ages newborn to 12 years. As of January 28, 2006, we operated 565 Gymboree stores, including 537 stores in the United States and 28 stores in Canada, as well as an on-line store at www.gymboree.com. Gymboree Outlet: In August 2005, the Company opened its first Gymboree Outlet store. The Gymboree Outlet stores provide our customers with high quality children’s apparel and accessories in the same age ranges as traditional Gymboree stores but at outlet prices. The majority of our Gymboree Outlet product is developed and manufactured exclusively for the Gymboree Outlet stores. As of January 28, 2006, we operated 13 Gymboree Outlet stores. Janie and Jack: Janie and Jack shops are highly differentiated from Gymboree stores. Janie and Jack shops offer distinctive, finely crafted clothing and accessories for boys and girls ages newborn to 5 years. Lush fabrics, a hand-made quality and details such as hand-embroidery, smocking and vintage prints are utilized to create classic looks. Shops have an old mercantile boutique style with special details such as wainscoting and distressed wooden armoires. As of January 28, 2006, we operated 64 Janie and Jack shops in the United States, as well as an on-line shop at www.janieandjack.com. 3 Table of Contents Janeville: Janeville stores offer trend-infused apparel and accessories for women in their mid-30s and older. Clothing is modern, fresh and comfortable, designed with high quality fabrics and flattering cuts and styling. Janeville stores feature a residential environment with a cottage façade, front porch, and French doors. As of January 28, 2006, we operated 17 Janeville stores in the United States. Gymboree Play & Music. Gymboree Play & Music offers directed parent-child developmental play programs designed to enhance early childhood development through fun-filled sensory and motor activities that engage children ages newborn to 5 years old through sight, touch, sound and movement. Gymboree Play & Music also offers art classes and organized birthday parties and sells certain developmentally appropriate toys, books and audiotapes. As of January 28, 2006, Gymboree’s Play & Music programs included 4 Company-operated play centers in California and 541 franchisee-operated play centers, of which approximately 56% are located in the United States, and the remaining 44% are located in 25 other countries, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Ireland, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. Gymboree was organized in October 1979, as a California corporation, and re-incorporated as a Delaware corporation in June 1992. RETAIL STORES As of January 28, 2006, the Company operated a total of 659 retail stores, including 631 stores in the United States (537 Gymboree stores, 13 Gymboree Outlet stores, 64 Janie and Jack shops and 17 Janeville stores) and 28 stores in Canada. The Company also operates two on-line stores at www.gymboree.com and www.janieandjack.com. In 2005, the Company opened 6 Gymboree stores, 13 Gymboree Outlet stores, 9 Janie and Jack shops and 3 Janeville stores in the United States. The Company also relocated or remodeled 23 Gymboree stores and closed 20 Gymboree stores in the United States. During 2006, the Company plans to open approximately 10 new Gymboree stores, 20 new Gymboree Outlet stores and 15 new Janie and Jack shops. No new Janeville stores are planned for fiscal 2006. The Company also plans to remodel, relocate or expand approximately 40 Gymboree stores. The Gymboree e-commerce site at www.gymboree.com offers our entire Gymboree product offering for children between the ages of newborn and 12 years. The site also offers on-line registration for our Gymboree Play & Music classes at selected U.S. locations. The Janie and Jack e-commerce web site at www.janieandjack.com, offers our entire Janie and Jack product offering for children sizes newborn to 5T. Less than 5% of the Company’s revenues were derived from outside the United States in 2005, 2004 and 2003, and less than 5% of the Company’s long-lived assets were located outside the United States in 2005, 2004 and 2003. SUPPLIERS The majority of our apparel is manufactured to our specifications by approximately 200 independent manufacturers in key countries in Asia (including China, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Taiwan, and Sri Lanka), as well as in Central America, South America, the United States and the United Arab Emirates. The Company purchases all products in U.S. dollars. One buying agent manages approximately 94% of our inventory purchases. We have no long-term contracts with suppliers and typically transact business on an order-by-order basis. All of our factories undergo annual audits for social accountability and production quality by an independent third party. 4 Table of Contents COMPETITION AND SEASONALITY The Company’s operations are seasonal in nature, with sales from our retail operations peaking during the fourth quarter, primarily during the holiday season in November and December. During fiscal 2005, the fourth quarter accounted for approximately 30% of our net sales from retail operations. Our Gymboree and Janie and Jack brands compete on a national level with BabyGap and GapKids (divisions of The Gap, Inc.), Talbots Kids and certain leading department stores operating in malls, outlet centers or street locations, as well as certain discount retail chains such as Old Navy (a division of The Gap, Inc.), The Children’s Place and Target. Our Gymboree and Janie and Jack brands also compete with a wide variety of local and regional specialty stores, with certain other retail chains, and with children’s retailers that sell their products by mail order, over the Internet or through outlet malls. Janeville competes on a national level with J. Jill, Chico’s, Talbots, Anthropologie, Banana Republic, Nordstrom and Ann Taylor. The principal factors of competition for retail sales are product design, product quality, brand image, customer service and pricing. Our goal is to provide our customers with high quality apparel with an excellent price/value relationship. We design and produce our apparel exclusively for sale at our retail and on-line stores. TRADEMARKS AND SERVICE MARKS In the United States, the Company is the owner of the trademarks and service marks “GYMBOREE,” “JANIE AND JACK,” “JANEVILLE” and “GYMBOREE PLAY & MUSIC,” and the trademarks “GYMBO” and “GYMBUCKS.” These marks and certain other of our marks are registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The mark “GYMBOREE” is also registered, or is the subject of pending applications, in approximately 61 foreign countries. Each federal registration is renewable indefinitely if the mark is still in use at the time of renewal. Our rights in the “GYMBOREE” and “JANIE AND JACK” marks and other marks are a significant part of our business. Accordingly, we intend to maintain the marks and the related registrations. We are not aware of any material claims of infringement or other challenges to our right to use the “GYMBOREE” and “JANIE AND JACK” marks in the United States. The Company uses a number of other trademarks, certain of which have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in certain foreign countries. We believe that our registered and common law trademarks have significant value and that some of our trademarks are instrumental to our ability to both market our products and create and sustain demand for our products. TEAM MEMBERS As of January 28, 2006, we had approximately 9,600 full-time and part-time employees or 4,200 full-time equivalents. In addition, a significant number of seasonal employees are hired during each holiday selling season. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. SEGMENT AND INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION Financial information for the Company’s two segments, retail stores and Play & Music, and for its international subsidiary for each of the three years ended January 28, 2006, January 29, 2005, and January 31, 2004, is contained in Note 10 to Consolidated Financial Statements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available on our website at www.gymboree.com under “Financial Resources & SEC filings,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such documents as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available under “Corporate Policies,” our code of ethics. 5 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table sets forth current information regarding our executive officers. Lisa M. Harper 46 Chief Creative Officer and Chairman of the Board Matthew K. McCauley 33 Chief Executive Officer Blair W. Lambert 48 Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Kip M. Garcia 55 President Marina Armstrong 43 Senior Vice President, Stores, Human Resources and Loss Prevention, and Secretary Lynda G. Gustafson 41 Vice President and Corporate Controller Lisa M. Harper was named Chief Creative Officer in January 2006 and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since June 2002. She served as Chief Executive Officer from February 2001 to January 2006 and was Vice Chair of the Board from February 2001 through June 2002. Ms. Harper joined Gymboree in January 1999 as Vice President, Design. From December 1999 until February 2000, she served as our Senior Vice President, Merchandising and Design. From February 2000 until September 2000, Ms. Harper served as our General Merchandise Manager. From September 2000 until February 2001, she served as our President. Prior to that, Ms. Harper served as our Director of Design and Merchandising from 1993 to 1995. Ms. Harper has also held merchandising and design positions with several other clothing retailers, including Limited Too, Esprit de Corp., GapKids, Mervyn’s, and Levi Strauss. Since February 2006, Ms. Harper serves as a director of Longs Drug Stores Corporation, a retail drug store chain. Matthew K. McCauley has served as our Chief Executive Officer since January 2006. He joined The Gymboree Corporation in July 2001 as Director of Allocation and was named Vice President of Planning and Allocation in 2003. Mr. McCauley was named Senior Vice President and General Manager in February 2005 and President in June 2005, and Chief Executive Officer in January 2006. Prior to joining The Gymboree Corporation, Mr. McCauley served in a variety of positions at The Gap, Inc., a clothing retailer, including Planning Manager from 2000 to 2001 and Manager of Business Solutions in 2001. Mr. McCauley has been on our Board of Directors since October 2005. Blair W. Lambert has served as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Gymboree since January 2005. In August 2003, Mr. Lambert joined Illuminations.com, Inc., a candle and home decorating retailer, as the Chief Financial Officer. He was named to the Illuminations.com, Inc. Board of Directors in October 2003. Illuminations.com, Inc. filed for bankruptcy protection on January 9, 2004. Mr. Lambert has been a vineyard owner since October 2001 and, prior to becoming an officer of Illuminations.com, was a private consultant for specialty retail companies. Mr. Lambert served as the Chief Financial Officer of Bebe Stores, Inc., a clothing retailer, from June 1996 through October 2001. From 1988 to 1996, Mr. Lambert was employed by Esprit de Corp., a wholesaler and retailer of junior and children’s apparel, footwear and accessories, most recently serving as Corporate Vice President of Finance. Mr. Lambert has been on our Board of Directors since 2003. Mr. Lambert is a Certified Public Accountant. Kip M. Garcia joined The Gymboree Corporation in May 2004 as Senior Vice President of Merchandising—Kids and was named President in January 2006. Prior to joining The Gymboree Corporation, Mr. Garcia served as Senior Vice President for Gap Kids, a division of The Gap Inc. and a children’s clothing retailer, from April 2002 to February 2003 and Senior Vice President for DFS Merchandising Ltd., a travel retail company, from February 1992 to February 2002. Marina Armstrong joined The Gymboree Corporation in May 1997 as a District Manager. In 1998, Ms. Armstrong became a Human Resources Staffing Manager at the corporate office and later that year was promoted to Director, Recruiting and Staffing. Ms. Armstrong was named Vice President, Human Resources in 1999 and Senior Vice President, Stores, Human Resources and Loss Prevention in February 2005. Ms. Armstrong was named Assistant Secretary in March 2002 and Secretary in December 2004. Prior to joining 6 Table of Contents The Gymboree Corporation, Ms. Armstrong held several human resources and store operations positions with other retailers including Saks Fifth Avenue, Robinsons-May and The Bon Marche. Lynda G. Gustafson joined The Gymboree Corporation in August 2001 as the Corporate Controller and was promoted to Vice President, Corporate Controller in February 2005. Ms. Gustafson was a business consultant for various companies from September 2000 to July 2001. From November 1993 to August 2000, Ms. Gustafson was at US Home & Garden, Inc., and was the Vice President, Finance and Principal Accounting Officer when she departed. Prior to that time, she spent five years in public accounting. Ms. Gustafson is a Certified Public Accountant. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results may be adversely affected by our failure to anticipate and respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences. Our sales and profitability depend upon the continued demand by customers for our apparel and accessories. We believe that our success depends in large part upon our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demands and fashion trends and upon the appeal of our products. There can be no assurance that the demand for our apparel or accessories will not decline or that we will be able to anticipate, gauge and respond to changes in fashion trends. A decline in demand for our apparel and accessories or a misjudgment of fashion trends could, among other things, lead to lower sales, excess inventories and higher markdowns which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Competition and the strength of our competitors may impair our ability to maintain and grow our sales and adversely affect our operating results. The apparel segment of the specialty retail industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. The principal factors of competition for retail sales are product design, product quality, brand image, customer service and pricing. Our Gymboree and Janie and Jack brands compete on a national level with BabyGap and GapKids (divisions of The Gap, Inc.), Talbots Kids and certain leading department stores operating in malls, outlet centers or street locations, as well as certain discount retail chains such as Old Navy (a division of The Gap, Inc.), The Children’s Place and Target. Our Gymboree and Janie and Jack brands also compete with a wide variety of local and regional specialty stores, with certain other retail chains, and with children’s retailers that sell their products by mail order, over the Internet or through outlet malls. Our Janeville brand competes on a national level with J. Jill, Chico’s, Talbots, Anthropologie, Banana Republic and Ann Taylor. Many of these competitors are larger than the Company and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. Increased competition may reduce sales and gross margins, increase operating expenses and decrease profit margins. We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel, or experience turnover of our management team. The continued success of the Company is largely dependent on the individual efforts and abilities of our senior management and certain other key personnel and on our ability to retain current management and to attract and retain qualified key personnel in the future. The loss of certain key employees or our inability to continue to attract and retain other qualified key employees could have a material adverse effect on our growth, our operations and our financial position. Our new concepts and businesses require a substantial commitment of resources and are not certain of ultimate success. The Company’s ongoing efforts to develop, launch and grow new divisions, businesses and brands require significant capital expenditures and management attention. Our commitment of management resources and 7 Table of Contents capital to a new concept means that those resources and capital are unavailable for other Company activities and operations. Our decision to launch a new business is based on our assessment that a significant opportunity exists in the marketplace. We felt that such opportunity existed for Janeville, though it is too early to tell whether Janeville will grow into a consistently profitable division for the Company. The Janeville business generated net losses in fiscal 2005 and we expect that it will lose money in fiscal 2006. There are no assurances that Janeville will receive sufficient consumer acceptance in its testing phase to justify further significant investment and management efforts necessary to establish the brand and business. Janeville, which targets women in their mid-30s, operates in a very competitive market in which the Company has not historically operated. If Janeville does not develop and grow substantially and achieve profitability, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s growth, operating results, margins and profitability. In addition, we began the Gymboree Outlet business during fiscal 2005. The business was marginally profitable in fiscal 2005, however it is too early to tell if this business will be successful in the future. Our business may be harmed by additional United States regulation of foreign trade or delays caused by additional US customs requirements. Our business is subject to the risk that the United States may adopt additional regulations relating to imported apparel products, including quotas, duties, taxes and other charges or restrictions on imported apparel. We cannot predict whether additional United States quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of our products in the future, or what effect any such actions would have on our business, financial position and results of operations. If the U.S. government imposes any such charges or restrictions, the supply of products could be disrupted and their cost could substantially increase, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Unforeseen delays in customs clearance of any goods could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver complete shipments to our stores, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Because we purchase our products internationally, our business is sensitive to risks associated with international business. Our products are currently manufactured to our specifications by independent factories located primarily in Asia, as well as Central America, South America, the United States and the United Arab Emirates. As a result, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, currency fluctuations, adverse conditions including epidemics, natural disasters, social or political unrest, disruptions or delays in transportation or customs clearance, local business practices and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our suppliers are located. We cannot predict the effect of such factors on our business relationships with foreign suppliers or on our ability to deliver products into our stores in a timely manner. If even a small portion of our current foreign manufacturing sources or textile mills were to cease doing business with us for any reason, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We may suffer negative publicity if any of our products are found to be unsafe. We currently test products sold in our stores, but we have in the past and may in the future, need to recall products that we later determine may present safety issues. If these products have safety problems of which we are not aware, or if the Consumer Product Safety Commission recalls a product sold in our stores, we could experience negative publicity and product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and financial position. We may be subject to negative publicity or be sued if our manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that our customers believe are unethical. We seek to require our independent manufacturers to operate their businesses in compliance with the laws and regulations that apply to them. Our sourcing personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our 8 Table of Contents independent manufacturers, but we cannot control their business and labor practices. We also rely on an independent third party to audit all of our factories on an annual basis. If an independent manufacturer violates or is suspected of violating labor laws or other applicable regulations, or if a manufacturer engages in labor or other practices that diverge from those typically acceptable in the United States, Canada or Europe, we could in turn experience negative publicity or be sued. Negative publicity or legal actions regarding the production of our products could have a material adverse affect on our reputation, sales, business and financial position. The loss of a key buying agent could disrupt our ability to deliver our inventory supply in a timely fashion, impacting its value. In 2005 and 2004, one buying agent managed approximately 94% and 90% of the Company’s inventory purchases, respectively. Although we believe that other buying agents could be identified and retained to place our required foreign production, the loss of this buying agent could result in delays in procuring inventory and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our business is sensitive to economic conditions that impact consumer spending. Our financial performance is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, particularly discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to other products. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to other products could have a material adverse effect on our growth, sales and profitability. Our business is sensitive to changes in seasonal consumer spending patterns that are beyond our control. Historically, a disproportionate amount of our retail sales and a significant portion of our net income have been realized during the holiday season in November and December. We have also experienced periods of increased sales activity in the early spring, during the period leading up to the Easter holiday, and in the early fall, in connection with back-to-school sales. We have historically generated net losses during our second quarter and expect to generate such losses in the future due to seasonal consumer spending patterns. Changes in seasonal consumer spending patterns for reasons beyond our control could result in lower-than-expected sales during these periods. Such a circumstance could cause us to have excess inventory, necessitating markdowns to dispose of these excess inventories, which would reduce our profitability. Any failure by us to meet our business plans for, in particular, the third or fourth quarter of any fiscal year would have a material adverse effect on our earnings, which in all likelihood would not be offset by satisfactory results achieved in other quarters of the same fiscal year. Also, because we typically spend more in labor costs during the holiday season to hire temporary store employees in anticipation of holiday spending, a shortfall in expected sales during that period could result in a disproportionate decrease in our net income. Our ability to successfully implement significant information technology systems is critical to our business. In the coming year, we plan to undertake a series of initiatives to upgrade our information technology infrastructure. These initiatives include a program to upgrade our point-of-sale, sales audit and financial systems. Such technology systems changes are complex and could cause disruptions that would adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully execute these changes without significant disruption to our business. If we are not successful, we may not achieve the expected benefits from these initiatives, despite having expended significant capital. We may also determine that additional investment is required to bring our systems to their desired state; this could result in a significant additional investment of time and money and increased implementation risk. Furthermore, the Company will rely on third parties to fulfill contractual obligations related to the upgrade of these systems. Failure of these third parties to fulfill their contractual obligations could lead to significant expenses or losses due to a disruption in business operations. 9 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed if our computer network security is compromised. Despite the Company’s considerable efforts and technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information, such as customer credit card numbers, could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. This could lead to adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits or cause the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages. Damage to our computer systems could severely hamper our ability to manage our business. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems on which we rely to manage our purchase orders, store inventory levels, web applications, accounting functions and other aspects of our business. We have computer systems located in each of our stores, with the main database servers for our systems located in San Francisco, California, which exists on or near known earthquake fault zones. An earthquake or similar disaster could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results not only by damaging our stores or corporate headquarters, but also by damaging our main servers, which could disrupt our business for an indeterminate length of time. Our systems are vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. We do not have back-up sites from which to conduct our business in the event of a natural disaster. There can also be no assurance that the Company can maintain or protect its on-line business application from a significant disruption that could result in a material adverse effect on its on-line revenue. Our growth will be hampered if we are unable to locate new stores and relocate existing stores in appropriate retail venues and shopping area. Our stores must be located in appropriate retail space in areas with demographic characteristics consistent with our customer base. These locations tend to be limited to upscale malls and similar venues where the market for space is very competitive. The location of acceptable store sites and the negotiation of acceptable lease arrangements require considerable time, effort and expense. Our ability to lease desirable retail space for expansion and relocation of stores, and to renew our existing store leases, on favorable economic terms is essential to our revenue growth. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve its store expansion goals, effectively manage its growth, successfully integrate the planned new stores into the Company’s operations, or profitably operate its new and remodeled stores. Failure to obtain and renew leases for a sufficient number of stores on acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our comparable store sales fluctuate from period to period. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future, especially for our newer brands, Janie and Jack, Janeville and Gymboree Outlet, as well as our growing on-line stores. Our comparable store sales are affected by a number of factors including our merchandise assortment, economic conditions, weather conditions, timing of our promotional offerings, competition and the overall retail environment. The investment community often tracks comparable store sales and a decline or significant fluctuation in comparable store sales, or a failure to meet investor expectations of comparable store sales, could affect the market price of our common stock. Failure of internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions; providing reasonable assurance 10 Table of Contents that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of the Company’s assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the Company’s financial statements would be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company’s ability to accurately and timely report its financial results or to detect and prevent fraud. The implementation of FAS 123(R) will reduce our reported earnings which could result in a decline in our stock price. The company headquarters is located in a geographic area in which there is significant competition for skilled managerial employees. Many of the firms in the area in which the Company competes use stock based compensation as a means to compete for these employees. As a result, the impact of the implementation of FAS 123(R) may be more significant for the Company than it is for other retailers not similarly located. To the extent that investors perceive the cost incurred for FAS 123(R) to be higher than that incurred by other retailers, our stock price may be negatively impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 