ITEM 1A. Risk Factors) offset by favorable development in the runoff lines. See ITEM 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Claims and claim adjustment expenses.” The decrease in the expense ratio for 2007 is primarily attributable to Policy acquisition costs specifically due to decreases in commission rates, marketing expenses and some underwriting expenses. Net Premiums Written Leverage Ratios: The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the Statutory Accounting Practices (“SAP”) net premiums written leverage ratios for the insurance companies and their industry peer group – professional nonstandard personal auto writers. As of the years ended December 31, 2007 2006 Insurance companies 1.9:1 2.1:1 Industry Peer Group – Professional Nonstandard Personal Auto Writers (1) Not available at time of print 1.2:1 (1) A.M. Best’s “Aggregates and Averages – 2007” The net premiums written leverage ratio represents the ratio of SAP net retained writings in relation to SAP surplus. This ratio measures a company’s exposure to pricing errors on its current book of business. 14 Table of Contents Investment Portfolio Historical Results and Composition The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our investment results before income tax effects: As of the years ended December 31, 2007 2006 (Dollar amounts in thousands) Average investments (1) 183,288 156,799 Net investment income 9,201 6,984 Return on average investments (2) 5.0 % 4.5 % Net realized gains 47 137 Net unrealized loss (3) (740 ) (413 ) (1) Average investments is the average of beginning and ending investments at amortized cost, computed on an annual basis. (2) Includes taxable and tax-exempt securities. (3) Includes net unrealized gains for total investments, before taxes. The following table sets forth the composition of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2007 2006 (Amounts in thousands) Type of Investment AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue Fixed Maturities: Bonds available for sale: U.S. Treasury $ 5,647 5,668 10,181 10,091 U.S. government agencies (1) 3,980 3,980 3,750 3,720 Corporate bonds 64,808 64,458 53,242 53,069 Asset backed bonds 15,683 15,729 12,444 12,378 Mortgage backed bonds 38,330 38,115 29,690 29,671 Preferred stocks 475 367 — — Common stocks 668 528 — — Certificates of deposit 1,970 1,974 2,157 2,154 131,561 130,819 111,464 111,083 Short-term investments 43,782 43,784 79,769 79,737 Total investments $ 175,343 174,603 191,233 190,820 (1) Securities not backed by full faith and credit of U.S. government. At December 31, 2007 the Standard & Poor’s ratings on our bonds available for sale were in the following categories: 42% AAA, 1% AA+, 2% AA, 6% AA-, 9% A+, 12% A, 5% A-, 1% BBB+, 5% BBB, 1% BB, 1% other and 15% unrated. See Notes 1(c) “Background and Summary of Accounting Policies – Investments” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing under Item 8 of this Report for further discussion. 15 Table of Contents The maturity distribution of our investments in fixed maturities is as follows: As of December 31, 2007 2006 (Dollar amounts in thousands) AmortizedCost Percent AmortizedCost Percent Within 1 year $ 44,454 33.8 % 22,403 20.1 % Beyond 1 year but within 5 years 29,293 22.3 46,927 42.1 Beyond 5 years but within 10 years 3,083 2.4 — — Beyond 20 years 718 .5 — — Asset-backed securities 15,683 11.9 12,444 11.1 Mortgage-backed securities 38,330 29.1 29,690 26.7 Total fixed maturities $ 131,561 100.0 % 111,464 100.0 % Average duration 1.6 yrs 1.4 yrs See further discussion of gross unrealized losses showing the length of time that investments have been continuously in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 in Note 2 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements which appears in Item 8 of this Report. See further discussion on asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities in “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Subsidiaries, Principally Insurance Operations.” Investment Strategy The investment policy of the insurance subsidiary, which is subject to investment statutes of Texas, is to maximize after-tax yield while maintaining safety of capital together with adequate liquidity for insurance operations. The insurance company’s portfolio may also be invested in equity securities within limits prescribed by applicable statutes that establish permissible investments. The investment portfolio of the holding company is not subject to such statutory limitations. We currently manage our investment portfolio internally. Significant Corporate Transactions Recapitalization On January 21, 2005 the Company consummated a recapitalization pursuant to agreements entered into on August 27, 2004 and approved by our shareholders on January 18, 2005. The agreements were with Goff Moore Strategic Partners, L.P. (“GMSP”), then holder of our Series A and Series C Preferred Stock and approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock; Robert W. Stallings, the Chairman of the Board and then holder of our Series B Preferred Stock; and First Western Capital, LLC (“First Western”), owned by James R. Reis. The recapitalization substantially reduced, as well as extended, our existing Preferred Stock redemption obligations and resulted in cash proceeds to us of approximately $3.1 million (after approximately $2.2 million in transaction costs and approximately $3.4 million used to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock). The recapitalization was negotiated on our behalf by a Special Committee of the Board comprised of disinterested, independent directors (the “Special Committee”). In conjunction with the recapitalization, Mr. Stallings became executive Chairman of the Board of the Company, and Mr. Reis became Executive Vice President with responsibility for risk management. Mr. Stallings’ agreements entered into with us in 2001 were terminated, as was First Western’s consulting agreement with the Company. As an integral part of the recapitalization, we entered into new employment agreements with Messrs. Stallings and Reis and an amended employment agreement with Glenn W. Anderson, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, which were approved by shareholders on January 18, 2005. 16 Table of Contents Reverse Stock Split On November 9, 2005, the shareholders of the Company approved a reverse stock split, pursuant to which each four shares of common stock, $0.10 par value, were combined into one share of common stock, $0.10 par value. Each fractional share otherwise issuable was rounded to a whole share. The reverse stock split became effective on November 21, 2005. Rights Offerings On August 23, 2005, the Company completed a rights offering in which each shareholder was provided the opportunity to purchase one share of common stock for each three shares owned. The rights offering raised approximately $14.6 million in net proceeds and resulted in the issuance of 4,928,763 shares of common stock (adjusted for the reverse stock split described above). On November 21, 2006, the Company completed a rights offering in which each shareholder was provided the opportunity to purchase .2222 of a share of common stock for each share owned. The rights offering raised approximately $17.9 million in net proceeds and resulted in the issuance of 4,532,045 shares of common stock. 2006 Subordinated Debentures In January 2006, the Company organized GAINSCO Capital Trust I, which issued $25 million of 30-year capital securities. The capital trust is not consolidated with the Company. The capital securities require quarterly payments of interest at a floating interest rate equal to the 3-month LIBOR (London interbank offered rate for U.S. dollar deposits) plus a margin of 3.85%. The capital securities will mature on March 31, 2036 and are redeemable at the Company’s option beginning after March 31, 2011, in whole or in part, at the liquidation amount of $1,000 per capital security. Taken together, the Company’s obligations provide a full, irrevocable and unconditional guarantee of payments of distributions and other amounts due on the capital securities, subject to the subordination provisions of the agreements. The net proceeds of the offering were used by GAINSCO Capital Trust I to acquire subordinated debentures of the Company that have the same maturity and bear interest at the same rate as the capital securities. The Company acquired 100% of the common securities of GAINSCO Capital Trust I. The Company used the proceeds to (i) redeem its outstanding Series A Preferred Stock held by GMSP, (ii) to provide $5 million of capital to its insurance company and the balance for general corporate purposes. In December 2006, the Company organized GAINSCO Statutory Trust II, which issued $18 million of 30-year capital securities. The statutory trust is not consolidated with the Company. The capital securities require quarterly payments of interest at a floating interest rate equal to the 3-month LIBOR (London interbank offered rate for U.S. dollar deposits) plus a margin of 3.75%. The capital securities will mature on March 15, 2037 and are redeemable at the Company’s option beginning after March 15, 2012, in whole or in part, at the liquidation amount of $1,000 per capital security. Taken together, the Company’s obligations provide a full, irrevocable and unconditional guarantee of payments of distributions and other amounts due on the capital securities, subject to the subordination provisions of the agreements. The net proceeds of the offering were used by GAINSCO Statutory Trust II to acquire debt securities of the Company that have the same maturity and bear interest at the same rate as the capital securities. The Company acquired 100% of the common securities of GAINSCO Statutory Trust II. The Company used the proceeds for general corporate purposes. 17 Table of Contents Sale of General Agents On November 1, 2007, the Company and MGA Insurance Company announced the completion of the sale of General Agents to Montpelier Re U.S. Holdings, Ltd., a subsidiary of Montpelier Re Holdings, Ltd. The Company received $4.75 million, plus $5.0 million of policyholders’ statutory surplus that remained in General Agents at closing. The Company recorded a net gain on sale from this transaction during the fourth quarter of 2007 of approximately $4.6 million, with the net proceeds contributed to policyholders’ surplus of MGA. As part of the closing transaction, all direct obligations of General Agents were assumed 100% by MGA and MGA also indemnified General Agents against all other liabilities existing prior to closing. Additionally, the Company guaranteed the obligations of MGA to General Agents (see Note 17 “Corporate Transactions” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing under Item 8 of this Report). Net Operating Loss Carryforwards As a result of losses in prior years, as of December 31, 2007 the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes aggregating $74.7 million. These net operating loss carryforwards of $13.4 million, $34.0 million, $13.7 million, $0.6 million and $13.0 million, if not utilized, will expire in 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2027, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, the tax benefit of the net operating loss carryforwards was approximately $25.4 million, which is calculated by applying the Federal statutory income tax rate of 34% against the net operating loss carryforwards of $74.7 million. The $13.0 million that will expire in 2027 was generated in 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company increased the amount of the valuation allowance by $9.7 million, resulting in an allowance on the gross deferred tax asset of $28.7 million. The Company considered it appropriate to increase the valuation allowance, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Net Operating Loss Carryforwards.” The Company increased the amount of the valuation allowance by $3,505,000 in previous quarters of 2007. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the net deferred tax asset before valuation allowance was $29.0 million and $25.9 million and the valuation allowance was $28.7 million and $15.5 million, respectively. Rating A.M. Best is the principal rating agency of the insurance industry. An insurance company’s ability to effectively compete in the market place is in part dependent upon the rating determination of A.M. Best. A.M. Best provides ratings of insurance companies based on comprehensive quantitative and qualitative evaluations and expresses its rating as an opinion of an insurer’s ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. In December 2007, A.M. Best affirmed the rating assignment of our insurance subsidiary of “B” (Fair) with a stable outlook. A.M. Best’s assigns a “B” rating to companies that have, in the opinion of A.M. Best, a fair ability to meet their current obligations to policyholders, but are financially vulnerable to adverse changes in underwriting and economic conditions. A “B” rating is the seventh out of the 16 possible ratings. Government Regulation Our insurance company is subject to regulation and supervision by the insurance department of the jurisdiction in which it is domiciled or licensed to transact business. The nature and extent of such regulation and supervision varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Generally, an insurance company is subject to a higher degree of regulation and supervision in its state of domicile. State insurance departments have broad administrative power relating to licensing insurers and agents, regulating premium charges and policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing statutory accounting methods and the form and content of statutory financial reports, and regulating the type and amount of investments permitted. Rate regulation varies from “file and use” to prior approval to mandated rates. Insurance departments are charged with the responsibility of ensuring that insurance companies maintain adequate capital and surplus and comply with a variety of operational standards. Insurance companies are generally required to file detailed annual and other reports with the insurance department of each jurisdiction in which they conduct business. Insurance departments are authorized to make periodic and other examinations of regulated insurers’ financial condition and operations to monitor financial stability of the insurers and to ensure adherence to statutory accounting principles and compliance with state insurance laws and regulations. 18 Table of Contents Insurance holding company laws enacted in many jurisdictions grant to insurance authorities the power to regulate acquisitions of insurers and certain other transactions and to require periodic disclosure of certain information. These laws impose prior approval requirements for certain transactions between regulated insurers and their affiliates and generally regulate dividend and other distributions, including management fees, loans, and cash advances, between regulated insurers and their affiliates. Under state insolvency and guaranty laws, regulated insurers can be assessed or required to contribute to state guaranty funds to cover policyholder losses resulting from the insolvency of other insurers. Insurers are also required by many states, as a condition of doing business in the state, to provide coverage to certain risks which are not insurable in the voluntary market. These “assigned risk” plans generally specify the types of insurance and the level of coverage which must be offered to such involuntary risks, as well as the allowable premium. Many states also have involuntary market plans which hire a limited number of servicing carriers to provide insurance to involuntary risks. These plans, through assessments, pass underwriting and administrative expenses on to insurers that write voluntary coverages in those states. Insurance companies are generally required by insurance regulators to maintain sufficient surplus to support their writings. Although the ratio of writings to surplus that the regulators will allow is a function of a number of factors, including the type of business being written, the adequacy of the insurer’s reserves, the quality of the insurer’s assets and the identity of the regulator, the annual net premiums that an insurer may write are generally limited in relation to the insurer’s total policyholders’ surplus. Thus, the amount of an insurer’s surplus may, in certain cases, limit its ability to grow its business. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the “NAIC”) also has developed a risk-based capital (“RBC”) program to enable regulators to carry-out appropriate and timely regulatory actions relating to insurers that show signs of weak or deteriorating financial condition. The RBC program consists of a series of dynamic surplus-related formulas which contain a variety of factors that are applied to financial balances based on a degree of certain risks, such as asset, credit and underwriting risks. The Company’s statutory capital exceeds the benchmark capital level under the RBC formula for its insurance company. Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer’s ability to exit a market. For example, certain states limit an auto insurer’s ability to cancel or non-renew policies. Furthermore, certain states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more lines of business from the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. The state insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption. Laws and regulations that limit cancellation or non-renewal of policies and that subject program withdrawals to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer’s ability to exit unprofitable markets. Regulation of insurance constantly changes as real or perceived issues and developments arise. Some changes may be due to economic developments, such as changes in investment laws made to recognize new investment vehicles; other changes result from such general pressures as consumer resistance to price increases and concerns relating to insurer rating and underwriting practices and solvency. In recent years, legislation and voter initiatives have been introduced, and in some areas adopted, which deal with use of non-public consumer information, use of financial responsibility and credit information in underwriting, insurance rate development, rate determination and the ability of insurers to cancel or non-renew insurance policies, reflecting concerns about consumer privacy, coverage, availability, prices and alleged discriminatory pricing. In addition, from time to time, the U.S. Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. In some states, the auto insurance industry has been under pressure in past years from regulators, legislators or special interest groups to reduce, freeze, or set rates to or at a level that are not necessarily related to underlying costs, including initiatives to roll back auto and other personal lines rates. This kind of activity has affected adversely, and in the future may affect adversely, the profitability and growth of the auto insurance business in those jurisdictions, and may limit the ability to increase rates to compensate for increases in costs. Adverse legislative and regulatory activity limiting the ability to price auto insurance adequately, or affecting the insurance operations adversely in other ways, may occur in the future. The impact of these regulatory changes on us cannot be predicted. 19 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2007, we employed 368 full time employees, of whom 24 were officers and 344 were staff and administrative personnel. We had no part time employees. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should consider the risk factors described in the following paragraphs in conjunction with the other information included herein. See also “Forward-Looking Statements” appearing in ITEM 7, Management’s Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations.” We face intense competition from other personal automobile insurance providers. The nonstandard personal automobile insurance business is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, there are relatively few barriers to entry. We compete with both large national insurance providers and smaller regional companies. The largest automobile insurance companies include The Progressive Corporation, The Allstate Corporation, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, GEICO, Farmers Insurance Group, Safeco Corp., Nationwide Group and American International Group. Our chief competitors include some of these companies as well as Mercury General Corporation, Infinity Property & Casualty Corporation, Affirmative Insurance Holdings, Inc., United Automobile Insurance Group, Bristol West Insurance Group and Sentry Insurance Group. Some of our competitors spend substantially more on advertising, have more capital, higher ratings and greater resources than we have, may offer a broader range of products, lower prices and down payments than we offer, and may pay higher commissions to agents and offer superior customer service. Some of our competitors that sell insurance policies directly to customers, rather than through agencies or brokerages as we do, may have certain competitive advantages, including increased name recognition among customers, direct relationships with policyholders and potentially lower cost structures. In addition, it is possible that new competitors will enter the nonstandard automobile insurance market. Our loss of business to competitors could have a material impact on our growth and profitability. Further, competition could result in lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions including policy claim limits, which could reduce our underwriting margins. We do not use credit scores in underwriting, unlike many of our competitors, which may result in additional risks in our business. The property and casualty insurance industry has historically been characterized by cyclical periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity, as well as periods of shortages of underwriting capacity that allow for attractive premiums and attract additional competitors. The periods of intense price competition may adversely affect our operating results, and the overall cyclicality of the industry may cause fluctuations in our operating results and affect our ability to manage the business profitably. Our failure to pay claims accurately could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our policies. Many factors affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including but not limited to the training and experience of our claims representatives, our claims organization’s culture and the effectiveness of our management, our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support our claims functions and other factors. Our failure to pay claims timely and accurately could lead to material litigation, undermine our reputation in the marketplace, impair our image and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we do not train new claims employees effectively or lose a significant number of experienced claims employees our claims department’s ability to handle an increasing workload could be adversely affected. In addition to potentially requiring that growth be slowed in the affected markets, we could suffer in decreased quality of claims work, which in turn could lower our operating margins. We have recently made significant operational changes in management of our claims administration to accelerate the recognition and resolution of claims. These changes may result in an increase in the amount of aggregate claim settlements and cause our ultimate claim and claim adjustment expense to increase in comparison to prior periods. 21 Table of Contents We rely on information technology and telecommunication systems, and the failure of these systems could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate billings, collections and cancellations. These systems also enable us to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for underwriting and rate development. The failure of these systems could interrupt our operations or materially impact our ability to evaluate and write new business. Because our information technology and telecommunication systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business and provide customer service or compromise our ability to pay claims in a timely manner. This outcome could result in a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our profitability and financial condition are affected by the availability of reinsurance. We utilize catastrophe reinsurance to “transfer” or “cede” a portion of the risks related to our nonstandard automobile insurance business through reinsurance arrangements with third parties. The amount, availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions that are beyond our control. These conditions affect our level of business and profitability. We have used reinsurance to dispose of certain of our discontinued and runoff businesses. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $9.6 million in reinsurance receivables, comprised primarily of reserves for future claim payments. Approximately 92% of these receivables were concentrated with 21 reinsurers, all of which were companies rated A- or better by A.M. Best and two companies with a B++ rating owed approximately 6% of the reinsurance receivables. Six companies with a NR A.M. Best rating owed approximately 2% of the reinsurance receivables. The failure of reinsurers to pay amounts due to us on a timely basis or at all would adversely affect our results of operations. Reinsurance makes the assuming reinsurer liable to the extent of the risks ceded. We are subject to credit risks with respect to the reinsurers because ceding risks to reinsurers does not relieve our insurance subsidiary’s ultimate liability to its insureds. The insolvency of any reinsurer or the inability of a reinsurer to make payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our business is subject to financial and operational risks resulting from our growth. We limited our business to Florida until the fourth quarter of 2003, when we began writing nonstandard personal automobile insurance policies in Texas. In 2004, we began writing nonstandard personal automobile insurance policies in Arizona and Nevada and in 2005 initiated a California program with an independent managing general agency. We entered the South Carolina market in 2006 and the New Mexico market in 2007. Significant growth has been realized as a result of these expansion activities, which has increased our operating leverage, claims ratio and the overall financial and operating risk profile. We may expand to additional states in the future. 22 Table of Contents Our strategy necessarily entails increased financial and operational risks and other challenges that are greater than and different from those to which we have previously been subject in writing nonstandard personal automobile insurance. These risks and challenges include, but are not limited to, the following: • competitive conditions for our product have intensified recently, and further pressures on pricing are anticipated; • generally, new business initially produces higher claim ratios than more seasoned in-force business, and this factor is likely to be magnified to the extent that we enter multiple new states and market areas within a short period of time. Furthermore, it amplifies the importance of our ability to assess any new trends accurately and respond effectively; • pricing decisions in new states and markets, involving different claims environments, distribution sources and customer demographics, must be made without the same level of experience and data that is available in existing markets; • our growth has required additional personnel resources, including management and technical underwriting, claims and servicing personnel, relationships with agents and vendors with whom we have not previously done business, and additional dependence on operating systems and technology; and • if we grow significantly or if adverse underwriting results occur, additional capital may be required, and such capital may not be available on favorable or acceptable terms. Our ability to maintain sufficient capital and perform successfully will be important factors in determination of our A.M. Best rating, and a reduction in that rating could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our ability to manage these risks and challenges will determine in large part whether we can operate profitably. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings may negatively affect our business. Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and may be expected to have an effect on an insurance company’s sales. An insurance company’s ability to effectively compete in the marketplace is in part dependent upon the rating determination of A.M. Best, the principal rating agency of the insurance industry. A.M. Best provides ratings of insurance companies based on comprehensive quantitative and qualitative evaluations and expresses its rating as an opinion of an insurer’s ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. In December 2007, A.M. Best affirmed the rating assignment of our insurance subsidiary of “B” (Fair) with a stable outlook. A.M. Best assigns “B” and “B-” ratings to companies that have, in the opinion of A.M. Best, a fair ability to meet their current obligations to policyholders, but are financially vulnerable to adverse changes in underwriting and economic conditions. If we do not successfully implement our business plan, if the risks we describe materially and adversely affect our results or financial position or if our written premiums exceed levels deemed prudent by A.M. Best, we would face the risk of a downgrade by A.M. Best. A downgrade in our rating may cause our independent agents to limit or stop their marketing of our products and may limit that availability and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and the terms of capital to us. Our success depends on our ability to underwrite risks accurately and to charge adequate rates to policyholders. Our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for the risks we underwrite. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premium to offset claims, claim adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to price accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: • the availability of sufficient reliable data; • our ability to conduct a complete and accurate analysis of available data; • our ability to recognize changes in trends in a timely manner and to project both the severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy; • uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions, generally; • our ability to project changes in certain operating expenses with reasonable certainty; • the development, selection and application of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies; • our ability to innovate with new pricing strategies and marketing initiatives, and the success of those innovations; • our ability to predict policyholder retention accurately; • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action; • ongoing changes in our claim settlement practices; • changing driving patterns; • unexpected changes in the medical sector of the economy; • unanticipated changes in automobile repair costs, automobile parts prices and used car prices; and • timely approval of proposed rates by regulatory agencies. Such risks may result in our pricing being based on stale, inadequate or inaccurate data or inappropriate analyses, assumptions or methodologies, and may cause us to estimate incorrectly future changes in the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, we could underprice risks, which would negatively affect our margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our volume and competitiveness. In either event, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Insurance agents’ improper use of authority may materially affect our business. As of December 31, 2007, we marketed our products and services through over 3,700 independent agency locations in Arizona, Florida, Nevada, New Mexico, South Carolina and Texas and one independent general agency in California that markets through approximately 1,000 insurance broker locations. These agents have the ability to bind us with respect to insurance coverage issued on our behalf. Since the agents are independent, we have only limited ability to exercise control over these agents. In the event that an agent exceeds its authority by binding us on a risk that does not comply with our underwriting guidelines, we are at risk for that policy until we receive the application and effect a cancellation. This may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We are subject to comprehensive laws and regulations, and our results may be unfavorably impacted by these laws and regulations or by changes in them. We are subject to comprehensive laws and governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance laws and regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than the shareholders and other investors of the insurance companies. These regulations, administered by the department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relate to, among other things: • establishing mandatory minimum policy limits and coverages, • approval of policy forms, rates and rating methodologies, • standards of solvency, including risk based capital measurements developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or the NAIC, and used by state insurance regulators to identify inadequately capitalized insurance companies, • licensing of insurers and their agents, • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments, • restrictions on the ability of insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends, • restrictions on transactions between the insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates, • requiring certain methods of accounting, • periodic examinations of operations and finances, • prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition to be filed, • requiring reserves for unearned premium, claims and other purposes, • sales plans and practices and commission structures, • permitted advertising, and • market conduct. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Insurance regulations and regulators have an impact on a number of factors that could affect our ability to respond to changes in our competitive environment and which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. These factors include regulating our ability to exit a book of business or to exit a state in which we have been producing insurance, our ability to receive adequate premiums to achieve acceptable profitability levels, and the amount of statutory dividends from our subsidiaries which may be needed to pay expenses and dividends. Failure to maintain risk-based capital at the required levels or ratios within the NAIC’s usual range could adversely affect our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to secure regulatory approvals as necessary or appropriate and would materially adversely affect their general business, ability to operate and overall financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Our business depends on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including violations of regulations. Changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse affect on our operations. State statutes limit the aggregate amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may pay us, thereby limiting our funds to pay expenses and dividends. Litigation may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a property and casualty insurance company, we are subject to various claims and litigation seeking damages and penalties, based upon, among other things, payments for claims we have denied and other monetary damages. In some cases, plaintiffs seek to recover damages far in excess of our policy limits based on assertions of “extra-contractual” liability due to alleged bad faith in the manner in which we have handled particular claims. In some jurisdictions in which we operate, allegations of bad faith are frequently made and can be difficult to defend. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge, such as a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting automobile insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claim-handling practices and regulatory noncompliance. These issues can have a negative effect on our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or the way we are permitted to price products, limiting the factors we may consider when we underwrite risks, or by requiring us to change our claims handling procedures or our practices for charging fees, or by increasing the size of claims or resulting in other monetary damages. The damages and penalties in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but may include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. The Office of the New York Attorney General and other state attorneys general are investigating certain insurance industry practices. The investigations appear to center around practices by which other insurance companies paid contingent compensation to insurance brokers based on the volume or profitability of the insurance placed with the insurance company for their clients, allegedly in violation of the brokers’ duty to act in the best interest of their clients rather than their own undisclosed pecuniary interest. We have not been named in these investigations and ensuing legislation; however, we may become involved at some point in the future. The expenses and other effects of potential litigation on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted and may be material. Several of our competitors are named as defendants in a number of putative class action and other lawsuits challenging various aspects of their insurance business operations. These lawsuits include cases alleging damages as a result of the use of after-market parts; total loss evaluation methodology; the use of credit in underwriting and related requirements under the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act; the methods used for evaluating and paying certain bodily injury, personal injury protection and medical payment claims; methods of imposing finance charges on installment premiums; and policy implementation and renewal procedures, among other matters. Litigation may be filed against us and/or our subsidiaries or disputes may arise in the future concerning these or other business practices. From time to time, we also may be involved in such litigation or other disputes alleging that our business practices violate the patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, lawsuits have been filed, and other lawsuits may be filed in the future, against our competitors and other businesses, and although we are not a party to such litigation, the results of those cases may create additional risks for, and/or impose additional costs and/or limitations on, our subsidiaries’ business operations. 26 Table of Contents Lawsuits against us often seek significant monetary damages, and we were sued in 2006 and 2007 in putative class actions similar to some of those referred to above. Moreover, as courts resolve individual or class action litigation in insurance or related fields, a new layer of court-imposed regulation could emerge, resulting in material increases in our costs of doing business. Such litigation is inherently unpredictable. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that these pending or future lawsuits may have on the business, operations, profitability or financial condition. An adverse resolution of the litigation pending or threatened against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and could cause our operating results in reporting periods to fluctuate significantly. The nonstandard insurance business may become subject to adverse publicity, which may negatively impact our financial condition. Negative publicity arising from attention of consumer advocacy groups, the media or other sources may result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation, which could increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by competitive, regulatory or economic conditions that influence the automobile insurance industry in general. Driving patterns, inflation in the cost of automobile repairs and medical care, and increasing litigation of liability claims are some of the more important factors that affect claim trends, and other nonstandard automobile insurers are generally unable to increase premiums unless permitted by regulators, typically after the costs associated with the coverage have increased. Accordingly, profit margins generally decline in a period of increasing claim costs, and we may be unable to sustain our policies in force. In addition, declines in economic activity may adversely affect the demand for our policies or the ability of our customers to make payments. Catastrophic losses could have a material, adverse effect on our business. Catastrophic losses could occur either as a result of insurance claims or because of interruption in our ability to conduct business efficiently. Property and casualty insurance companies are subject to claims arising from natural and man-made catastrophes that may have a significant impact on their business, results of operations and financial condition. Catastrophic losses can be caused by a wide variety of events, including hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, wind, hail, fires, riots, terrorism and explosions, and their incidence and severity are inherently unpredictable. The extent of claims from a catastrophe is a function of two factors: the total amount of an insurance company’s exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Our policyholders are currently concentrated in geographic areas that are periodically subject to adverse weather and other conditions. Accordingly, the occurrence of a catastrophe in the states in which we operate or in which we may operate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Separately, a catastrophic interruption of our technology systems could disrupt our operations or prevent us from providing acceptable customer service or managing other aspects of our business effectively. 27 Table of Contents Our claim and claim adjustment expense may exceed our claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our financial statements include claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for reported and unreported claims which represent our best estimate of what we will ultimately pay on claims and the related costs of adjusting those claims as of the date of our financial statements. When available, we rely heavily on our historical claim and claim adjustment experience in determining these reserves. We may not have historical results for new markets and our relatively small size results in our having less data available than many of our competitors. In addition, the historic development of reserves for claim and claim adjustment expense may not accurately reflect future trends. For example, these estimates are subject to: • large potential errors because the ultimate disposition of claims incurred before the date of our financial statements, whether reported or not, is subject to the outcome of events that have not yet occurred, such as jury decisions, court interpretations, legislative changes, subsequent damage to property, changes in the medical condition of claimants, public attitudes and economic conditions such as inflation; • new classes of losses or types of losses not sufficiently represented in historical data are not yet identifiable; and • our inability to predict future events. Our expansion into new markets and states increases the risk that our reserves do not accurately reflect the ultimate claim and claim adjustment expense that we will incur. There may also be a significant reporting lag between the occurrence of an event and the time it is reported to us. The inherent uncertainties of estimating our reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, particularly those in which the various considerations affecting the type of claim are subject to change and in which long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. We have recently made significant operational changes in the claims adjustment process and in our methodology for managing and tracking claims data, and these changes increase the uncertainties which exist in the estimation process and could lead to inaccurate estimates of claim and claim adjustment expense. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the period in which such estimates are changed. There are significant risks and uncertainties that could result in material adverse deviation of our unpaid claim and claim adjustment expenses. As a result of the factors discussed above, the amount of actual claim and claim adjustment expense that we pay to claimants may be substantially more than the reserves reflected in our financial statements and could therefore cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from one reporting period to another. Our debt service obligations could impede our operations, flexibility and financial performance. Our level of debt could affect our financial performance. As of December 31, 2007, we had consolidated indebtedness (other than trade payables and certain other short term debt) of $44.9 million. In addition, borrowings under our credit agreement and the capital securities issued GAINSCO Capital Trust I and GAINSCO Statutory Trust II, which were organized by the Company, bear interest at rates that fluctuate. The capital trust and statutory trust are not consolidated with the Company. Therefore, increases in interest rates on the obligations under our credit agreement and the capital securities would adversely affect our income and cash flow that would be available for the payment of interest and principal on the loans under our credit agreement. Our net interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $4,110,000. 28 Table of Contents Our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • we will need to use a portion of the money we earn to pay principal and interest on outstanding amounts due under our credit facility, which will reduce the amount of money available to us for financing our operations and other business activities; • we may have a much higher level of debt than certain of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage; • we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future; and • we could be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We continue to expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt from our operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt service obligations thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, demographic and other factors, including competition. If we do not have enough money to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity. In that event, we may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us or at all. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants, which may restrict our operational flexibility. Our credit facility contains various operating covenants, including among other things, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends on and redeem capital stock, make other restricted payments, including investments, sell our assets and enter into consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions could limit our ability to take actions that require funds in excess of those available to us. Our credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions could result in an event of default under the credit facility. If an event of default exists under the credit facility, the lender could elect to declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and payable. If the lender under our credit facility accelerates the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness that would become due as a result of such acceleration. We may need to raise additional capital. We may need additional capital to continue growing our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient additional capital. If we are unable to obtain required capital on favorable terms, or at all, we may be forced to change our business plan and may be unable to respond to competitive pressures in our business. Even if we are able to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of existing investors. In addition, if we raise capital through senior credit facilities, we would experience risks typically associated with credit borrowings, such as risks of defaults that we are unable to cure, enforcement of any liens or other security interests we may grant and restrictions on our operations, including those that might be required to comply with any financial and non-financial covenants. Additional capital could also be dilutive to our common shareholders and result in significantly higher interest expense and indebtedness, thereby reducing the earnings available to common shareholders. 29 Table of Contents A change in immigration policies could adversely affect our growth. We believe that a majority of our current and potential customers is Hispanic, and a key element of our growth strategy involves our continued focus on marketing our nonstandard automobile insurance in this market niche. An important element to this strategy is our belief that a growing percentage of potential customers for personal nonstandard automobile insurance are Hispanic. In recent years, there have been a variety of legislative proposals to limit immigration to the United States or make other policy changes that may be adverse to undocumented immigrants. If one or more proposals were to be adopted and had the effect of curtailing such immigration or imposing additional requirements on immigrants requiring insurance, this could result in decline in growth of the Hispanic market, which may have an adverse effect on our abilities to achieve our growth strategies and our ability to expand our business in the markets in which we currently operate and may operate in the future. The performance of our portfolio of fixed-income and equity securities may affect our profitability, capitalization and financial performance. We maintain an investment portfolio that currently consists primarily of fixed-income securities. The quality, market value, yield and liquidity of the portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including the general economic and business environment, changes in the credit quality of the issuer of the fixed-income securities, changes in market conditions or disruptions in particular markets, changes in interest rates, or regulatory changes. These securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. Factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer’s industry, deterioration in the cash flows or the quality of assets of the issuer, or a change in the issuer’s marketplace may adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest from the issuer. Both equity and fixed income securities have been affected over the past several years, and may be affected in the future, by significant external events. Examples of such events would include the September 2001 terrorist attacks, hurricanes, corporate accounting scandals and temporary or long-term disruptions in markets. Credit rating downgrades, defaults, and impairments may result in write-downs in the value of the fixed income securities held by the Company. As of December 31, 2007, we held $127.9 million of fixed income securities, $2.3 million of which were rated below BBB based on Standard & Poor’s credit ratings. The investments our insurance company subsidiary holds are highly regulated by specific legislation in Texas that governs the type, amount, and credit quality of allowable investments, and the fixed income securities in which we invest are evaluated by the NAIC’s Security Valuation Office (the “SVO”). Legislative changes or changes in the SVO’s evaluations could force us to adjust investment carrying values, with a resulting adverse effect on the level of our statutory capital. We may use derivative instruments that are hedging in nature in order to manage our interest rate and equity market risk. Although we take precautions to minimize our exposure, our profitability may be adversely affected if a counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults in its payment. Failure to successfully resolve our remaining commercial lines claims could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. On February 7, 2002, we announced our decision to cease writing commercial insurance due to continued adverse claims development and unprofitable results. As a result, there are no commercial policies remaining in force at December 31, 2007. We continue to settle and reduce our inventory of commercial lines claims. At December 31, 2007, there were 47 claims associated with our runoff book outstanding, compared to 73 at December 31, 2006. Due to the long tail and litigious nature of these claims, we anticipate that it will take a substantial number of years to complete the adjustment and settlement process with regard to existing claims and the additional claims we expect to receive in the future from our past business writings. Most of the remaining claims are in litigation and our future results may be impacted negatively if we are unable to resolve the remaining claims and new anticipated claims within our established reserve level. 30 Table of Contents Our success depends on retaining our current key personnel and attracting additional personnel. Our success will depend largely on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and senior management, especially those of Robert W. Stallings, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Strategic Officer, Glenn W. Anderson, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director and James R. Reis, our Executive Vice President. Our business may be adversely affected if the services of these officers or any of our other key personnel become unavailable to us. We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Stallings, Anderson and Reis. Even with these employment agreements, there is a risk that these individuals will not continue to serve for any particular period of time. We may hire additional key employees and officers to support our business growth, our focus on the nonstandard personal automobile insurance business, our expansion into new geographic markets and the improvement and enhancement of our systems and technologies. Hiring management personnel is very competitive in our industry due to the limited number of people available with the necessary skills, experience and understanding of our business procedures and the necessary leadership ability to guide us through the strategic development initiatives contemplated in the immediate years ahead. In 2005, we adopted a new long-term focused system of performance-based equity compensation for key personnel. Pursuant to such plan, the Compensation Committee, all of whose members are independent, is authorized to offer performance-based incentive grants and potentially issue up to 10% of our outstanding common stock over time based on achievement of performance targets. As of December 31, 2007, there were outstanding 787,000 restricted stock units which could be earned through 2009 by the achievement of specified performance criteria. Our operating performance and recently lower stock price may affect the efficacy of the incentives. Our inability to attract, train or retain the number of highly qualified personnel that our business needs may cause our business and prospects to suffer. We cannot be certain that the net operating loss tax carryforwards will continue to be available to offset our tax liability. As of December 31, 2007, we had net operating loss tax carryforwards for Federal income tax purposes, which we refer to as “NOLs,” of approximately $74,720,000. In order to utilize the NOLs, we must generate taxable income which can offset such carryforwards. The NOLs will expire if not used. The availability of NOLs to offset taxable income would be substantially reduced if we were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code. We will be treated as having had an “ownership change” if, within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder, there is more than a 50% change in stock ownership during a three year “testing period” by “5% shareholders.” The NOLs will expire in various amounts, if not used, between 2020 and 2027. We cannot assure you that we would prevail if the IRS were to challenge the availability of the NOLs. If the IRS were successful in challenging our NOLs, all or some portion of the NOLs would not be available to offset any future consolidated income. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future, and the volume of trading in our common stock is very low. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of the securities of insurance companies, including nonstandard automobile insurance companies, have been especially volatile. Such fluctuations can result from, among other things: • quarterly variations in operating results; • changes in market valuations of other similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; 31 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • significant sales of common stock by insiders or others or the perception that such sales could occur; • general economic trends and conditions; • deterioration in the trading market for our common stock; and • future issuances of stock or debt securities to fund our anticipated growth. In addition, the stock market has periodically experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall and could negatively affect an investment in our common stock regardless of our performance. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock, including us, have been the object of securities class action litigation. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Certain of our executives and directors own a majority of our outstanding capital stock, and therefore exercise voting control over the Company. Our executive officers and directors, together with our largest shareholder, beneficially own a majority of our outstanding common stock (69.2% as of December 31, 2007). They potentially have the power to control the actions of the Company with respect to items requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. Their interests in approving such actions might not be aligned with the interests of other owners of our common stock. 