ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We operate in an extremely competitive industry and are subject to continual pricing pressure that could negatively affect our financial results. We compete with a number of major domestic and international manufacturers and distributors of lead-acid batteries, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. Due to excess capacity in some sectors of our industry, consolidation among industrial battery purchasers and the financial difficulties experienced by several of our competitors, we have been subject to continual and significant pricing pressures. Several of our competitors have strong technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources, as well as significant name recognition, established positions in the market and long-standing relationships with original equipment manufacturers and other customers. In addition, some of our competitors own lead smelting facilities which, during periods of lead cost increases or price volatility, may provide a competitive pricing advantage and reduce their exposure to volatile raw material costs. Our ability to maintain and improve our operating margins has depended, and continues to depend, on our ability to control and reduce our costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to reduce our operating expenses, to raise or maintain our prices or increase our unit volume, in order to maintain or improve our operating results. Cyclical industry conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the results of our operations. Our operating results are affected by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which our major customer groups operate, and the overall economic conditions in which we and our customers operate. All of our target client segments are heavily dependent on the end-user markets they serve, such as LEV, telecommunications, and uninterruptible power systems. A weak capital expenditure environment in these markets has had, and can be expected to have, a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our results of operations can be significantly affected by the volatility in the prices of the raw materials that we use to produce our products. Our raw materials costs are volatile and expose us to significant fluctuations in our product costs. We employ significant amounts of lead, plastics, and other materials in our manufacturing processes. Lead is our most significant raw material and represents approximately 63.7% of our total raw materials costs. The costs of these raw materials, particularly lead, are volatile and beyond our control. Volatile raw materials costs can significantly affect our operating results and make period-to-period comparisons extremely difficult. We may not be able to hedge our raw material requirements at a reasonable cost or to pass on to our customers the increased costs of our raw materials. 10 Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and our failure to comply with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and a material adverse effect on our business. As a manufacturer, we are subject to various Chinese environmental laws and regulations on air emission, waste water discharge, solid wastes and noise. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply with these regulations at all times as the Chinese environmental legal regime is evolving and becoming more stringent. Therefore, if the Chinese government imposes more stringent regulations in the future, we will have to incur additional and potentially substantial costs and expenses in order to comply with new regulations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of the present or future environmental regulations in any material aspects, we may suffer from negative publicity and may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend or even cease operations. Failure to comply with Chinese environmental laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to introduce new products and product enhancements and broad market acceptance of new technologies introduced by our competitors could adversely affect our business. Many new energy storage technologies, other than lead-acid, have been introduced over the past few years. In addition, recent advances in fuel cell and flywheel technology have been introduced for use in selected applications that compete with the end uses for lead-acid industrial batteries. For many important and growing markets, such as aerospace and defense, lithium-based battery technologies have large and growing market shares and lead-acid technologies have decreasing market shares. Our ability to achieve significant and sustained penetration of key developing markets, including aerospace and defense, will depend upon our success in developing or acquiring these and other technologies, either independently, through joint ventures or through acquisitions. If we fail to develop or acquire, and to manufacture and sell, products that satisfy our customers’ demands, or if we fail to respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products, market acceptance of our products could be reduced and our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology, which may harm our competitive position and result in increased expenses incurred to enforce our rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish, protect and maintain our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information. Some of these technologies, especially in thin plate pure lead technology, are important to our business and are not protected by patents. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is also expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Product branding is important to us and if our brands are misappropriated or our reputation otherwise harmed, our operations and financial results could be negatively impacted. We rely upon a combination of trademark, licensing and contractual covenants to establish and protect the brand names of our products. We have registered our trademark in the Trademark Office of China. In many market segments, our reputation is closely related to our brand names. Monitoring unauthorized use of our brand names is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent their unauthorized use, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in China. Our brand names may be misappropriated or utilized without our consent and such actions may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and on the results of our operations. 11 If we grow through acquisitions and fail to successfully integrate acquired companies, our operations could be disrupted and management could become distracted by integration issues. As part of our business strategy, we plan to grow in part by acquiring other product lines, technologies or facilities that complement or expand our existing business. We may be unable to implement this part of our business strategy and may not be able to make acquisitions to continue our growth. There is significant competition for acquisition targets in the industrial battery industry. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or negotiate attractive terms. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining the financing necessary to complete transactions that we pursue. Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of our equity securities as payment, in part or in full, for the businesses or assets acquired. Any future issuances of equity securities would dilute your ownership interests. In addition, future acquisitions might not increase, and may even decrease, our earnings or earnings per share and the benefits derived by us from an acquisition might not outweigh or might not exceed the dilutive effect of the acquisition. We also may incur additional debt or suffer adverse tax and accounting consequences in connection with any future acquisitions, although we currently do not have any identified future acquisition targets. Where we are successful in completing acquisitions, we might experience difficulties in integrating the acquired business or assets. Acquisitions might result in unanticipated liabilities, unforeseen expenses and distraction of management’s time and attention. We cannot assure you that our acquisition strategy will be successful. A significant portion of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers, and results from operations could be adversely affected and stockholder value harmed if we lose these customers. A significant portion of our revenues has been historically derived from a limited number of customers. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, over 32.2 %, 41% and 45% of our revenues, respectively, were derived from our ten largest customers. The loss of any of these significant customers that is not accompanied by the retention of new business in similar volume would adversely affect our revenues and stockholder value. Our products could be subject to product liability claims by customers and/or consumers, which would adversely affect our profit margins, results of operations and stockholder value. A significant portion of our products are used in light electric vehicles, such as electric scooters. If our products are not properly designed or built and/or personal injuries are sustained as a result of our equipment, we could be subject to claims for damages based on theories of product liability and other legal theories. The costs and resources to defend such claims could be substantial and, if such claims are successful, we could be responsible for paying some or all of the damages. Also, our reputation could be adversely affected, regardless of whether such claims are successful. Any of these results would adversely affect our profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. 12 Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure impeding our ability to meet any increased demand for our cadmium-free, valve-regulated lead-acid products and possibly hurting our operating results. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for existing products, and by the introduction of new product offerings. Our planned growth includes the construction of new production lines to be put into operation over the next twelve months. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; and · rapid technological change. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we may need to obtain additional funding to improve information systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage our employees, and such funding may not be available in sufficient quantities, if at all. If we are not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, our operating results could suffer. We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Jiada Hu, our Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary and Treasurer, Jianjun Zeng, our Chief Operating Officer, Degang He, our Chief Technology Officer, and Zhenghua Cai, our Chief Financial Officer. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee or if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by further turnover. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have the operating effectiveness of our internal controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of our internal controls. We are subject to this requirement commencing with our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and a report of our management on our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 is included under Item 9A(T) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our management has concluded that our internal controls over our financial reporting are effective for the period covered by this Annual Report. However, in the future, our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective due to the identification of one or more material weaknesses, or our independent registered public accounting firm may issue an adverse opinion on our internal control over financial reporting if one or more material weaknesses are identified. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed by SOX 404 and there can be no positive assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. 13 Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends to our stockholders. China Ritar Power Corp. has no direct business operations, other than its ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. PRC regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under PRC accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by PRC accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operational results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: • Level of government involvement in the economy; • Control of foreign exchange; • Methods of allocating resources; • Balance of payments position; • International trade restrictions; and • International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers are residents of China and not of the U.S., and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. 14 The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business profitably in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could harm our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China, where our operations are conducted, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: · quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could damage our operations. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in RMB and U.S. dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. 15 Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (i) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (ii) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (iii) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (iv) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (v) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We believe our stockholders who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 75 have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. 16 We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations that became effective on September 8, 2006. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This new regulation, among other things, governs the approval process by which a PRC company may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the new regulation will require the PRC parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the new regulation, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The new regulation allows PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to the Ministry of Commerce and other relevant government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the PRC business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulation also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulation may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms that satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders’ economic interests. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operational needs and should the RMB appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions and you may have difficulty selling shares of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If our common stock becomes a “penny stock”, we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, or the “Penny Stock Rule”. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. 17 For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Our largest stockholder, Jiada Hu, holds a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities and accordingly may make decisions regarding our daily operations, significant corporate transactions and other matters that other stockholders may believe are not in their best interests. Mr. Jiada Hu, our CEO and President, is the beneficial owner of approximately 43% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, he possesses significant influence over the election of our board of directors and significant corporate transactions. His ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Other stockholders may believe that these future decisions made by Mr. Hu are not in their best interests. ITEM 