Item 1A. Risk Factors Butler has been delinquent filing its quarterly and annual reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have not timely filed the following reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission: the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 25, 2005, March 26, 2006, June 25, 2006, September 24, 2006, April 1, 2007 and July 1, 2007 and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2005 and December 31, 2006. As a result of the filing delinquencies, the NASDAQ has delisted our securities on April 11, 2006 from the national market and our common stock is currently trading on the Pink Sheets as a result of the delisting. Butler may apply for re-listing on NASDAQ, although there can be no assurance that Butler will be successful in its efforts to obtain re-listing. Butler may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of its shareholders or of securities analysts, and its stock price could fluctuate as a result. Due to Butler’s delinquent filing of its quarterly and annual reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Butler has a limited ability to raise capital in the public markets. As a result of our failure to file our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 25, 2005 and December 31, 2006 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 25, 2005, March 26, 2006, June 25, 2006, September 24, 2006, April 1, 2007 and July 1, 2007 by their filing deadlines, we are not eligible to register our securities on a registration statement on Form S-3. Therefore, our ability to raise additional capital in the public markets may be adversely affected because registering of our securities on other forms, including registration statements on Form S-1, is time consuming and costly. Our limited ability to raise future capital through the sale of our equity securities could have a material adverse effect on our future business prospects. We were in violation of covenants contained on our debt agreements with our primary lender. As a result of our failure to timely file our financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission and as a result of our recent financial performance, we were in violation of certain terms and covenants contained in our debt agreement with General Electric Credit Corporation (“GECC”). We have received several waivers of these covenants and have negotiated several amendments to the agreements with GECC for extensions of time to meet the covenants. The ability to borrow under the existing revolving credit facility depends on the amount of eligible collateral, which in turn, depends on certain advance percentages applied to the value of accounts receivable. We anticipate that the existing resources and working capital should be sufficient to satisfy our foreseeable cash requirements. Of course, there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. The inability to obtain additional financing, if needed, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain new financing upon the termination of our Credit Agreement with GECC or Monroe Capital Management. On August 29, 2007, Butler obtained a $23.0 million term loan (the “Monroe Term Loan”) from Monroe Capital Management Advisors LLC. The proceeds of the Monroe Term Loan were used to pay off the existing term loan with GECC, to pay off a portion of the existing revolving credit facility with GECC (the “Senior Revolving Loan”), to provide cash collateral for an existing letter of credit, and to provide additional working capital for Butler and its subsidiaries. The Monroe Term Loan matures August 29, 2012 unless the Series A Manditorily Redeemable Preferred Shares or the GECC Revolving Line of Credit expire prior to August 29, 2012. The GECC Revolving Line of Credit expires February 1, 2008. The Series A Manditorily Redeemable Preferred Shares are redeemable July 11, 2011. Pursuant to the agreement, there are certain events that can require the Company to prepay a portion of the outstanding Monroe Term Loan. The Monroe Term Loan bears interest at the per annum rate of LIBOR plus 4.25% to 6.0%. The interest rate may also be adjusted depending upon the syndication of the Monroe Term Loan. No warrants were issued in connection with the term loan. As we approach the maturity of the Monroe term loan, we will be required to either refinance with Monroe or to find a new lender. If we are unable to obtain new financing upon the termination of our current financing arrangement, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic trends and conditions may cause Butler to lose customers. The demand for Butler’s services is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing and development needs of our customers. The pace of customer capital spending programs, new product launches, and 9 similar activities have a direct impact on the need for temporary and permanent employees and for project outsourcing. Any deterioration in the economic condition of the United States or any of the foreign countries in which we do business, or in any specific industry, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Due to the competitiveness of the industry, Butler’s market share may be at risk. The outsourcing, project management and technical staff augmentation services industries are highly competitive and fragmented with limited barriers to entry. In bid projects, price competition is significant, and pricing pressures from competitors and customers are increasing. We also face the risk that certain customers may decide to provide similar services internally. These risks could limit our ability to maintain or increase its market share or profitability. Inability to retain or attract personnel (key employees) may disrupt the future ability of Butler to provide value to its customers. Butler depends upon its ability to attract qualified personnel who possess the skills and experience to retain customers and to successfully bid for new customer projects. We must continually evaluate our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Competition for individuals with proven professional or technical skills always exists. There is always uncertainty whether qualified personnel will continue to be available to Butler in sufficient numbers and on acceptable terms of employment. Furthermore, at times of low unemployment rates in the areas Butler serves, it can be difficult to find qualified and affordable personnel. We may be unable to hire and retain a sufficient skilled labor force necessary to support operating requirements and growth strategy of the business. Additionally, labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Given an inability to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. In addition to personnel, Butler’s operations depend on the continued efforts of its officers and other executive management. The loss of key officers and members of executive management may cause a significant disruption to our business. Workers compensations premiums and claims liability exposes Butler to cost risks. From time to time, various types of legal claims arise in connection with the ordinary course of business. Employees of Butler may make a variety of claims including workplace injury claims and employment-related claims such as discrimination, harassment, and wage and hour claims. For example, Butler’s business involves placing employees in customer workplaces. These types of claims may arise more frequently in those business operations. Paying premiums for and covering costs with regards to these claims can be substantial and can significantly impact the profitability of Butler. Butler is unable to predict the pace of technology or the obsolescence of current technological and service practices, elements that are key to Butler’s profitability. To satisfy increasingly sophisticated client requirements and achieve market acceptance, Butler must enhance and improve existing services, and must also continue to introduce new services. Any new services offered may not be introduced in a timely manner, and they may not achieve sufficient market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If Butler is unable to successfully develop new services, or enhance existing services, sales may decline, and profitability will decrease. Additionally, as a provider of technology services, Butler could be negatively affected if there is an inability to keep pace with rapid changes in technology or if growth in the use of technology in business is not as rapid as in the past. Existence of restrictive covenants in debt instruments may expose Butler to greater costs or limit its ability to pursue certain business strategies. Butler’s debt instruments include certain provisions that restrict Butler or its subsidiaries in several key areas. Restrictive covenants including certain consolidations, mergers, and sales, transfers of assets, and limitations on the ability to grant liens upon our property or assets can limit the scope of future strategy. Extending credit to clients exposes Butler to accounts receivable risks. Butler grants credit to its customers, periodically assesses the credit of its customers, and continuously monitors the timeliness of customer payments. However, our customers may be adversely affected by an economic 10 downturn, which may subject Butler to potential credit risks. If any of Butler’s major customers files for bankruptcy or experiences financial difficulties, we may not be able to collect receivables from them for work already performed or in the process of being performed. This could lead to reduced cash flows and a decline in liquidity. Pink sheet trading will continue to decrease liquidity for investors. Butler’s common stock is currently traded on the Pink Sheets. As a result, trading of the stock occurs in low volume and at sporadic times, and this decreases the liquidity value of an investment in Butler’s stock. Fixed payments and salaried employees expose Butler to extra costs or project losses. Charges for our services are billed to clients based either on (i) an hourly rate per contract employee, (ii) an hourly rate plus equipment charges (and overhead charges, if applicable), or (iii) a fixed price or a fixed unit price. With regard to fixed price billing systems, our profitability could decline if the actual costs of completion exceed original estimates. Butler’s process for estimating costs is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our project managers and financial professionals. However, any changes in original estimates, or the assumptions underlying such estimates, may result in revisions to costs and income and their effects would be recognized in the period during which such revisions were determined. These changes could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, which could adversely affect profitability and the price of the common stock. Additionally, Butler’s technical/professional employees fall into one of three categories (1) salaried employees, (2) contracted employees, and (3) independent contractors. Salaried employees continue to work for Butler after an assignment ends, usually starting their next assignment immediately, but sometimes working on internal projects while “on the bench.” Contracted employees and independent contractors are terminated if a new assignment is not identified. Inability to place salaried employees on assignment could decrease our profitability and value of our common stock. Regulations in the United States may affect Butler’s ability to contract with employees, willingness of customers to contract for Butler’s services, and willingness of government customers to request additional services. Because Butler does business with companies that have contracts with the United States Government, changes in government programs and requirements, or budgetary changes affecting government spending in agencies indirectly related to Butler, or changes in fiscal policies or available funding, may adversely affect results of business operations. Additionally, Butler is subject to various laws that regulate the employer-employee relationship and impose registration, licensing, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, among other things. Changes in any of those government regulations could result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of new or additional benefits, licensing, or tax requirements. As a result, Butler may not be able to increase the fees charged to its customers in a timely manner or in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any of the foregoing. Finally, the Federal Communications Commission regulates many of Butler’s communications customers. The FCC may interpret the application of its regulations to communication companies in a manner that is different than the way such regulations are currently interpreted and may impose additional regulations. If existing or new regulations have an adverse affect on communications customers and adversely impact the profitability of the services they provide, then demand for Butler’s services may be reduced. Acquisitions may expose Butler to unanticipated costs or diversions. Although Butler is not currently pursuing a growth strategy through acquisitions, we may acquire companies that expand, complement, or diversify our business as part of a future strategy of growth. We regularly review various opportunities and periodically engage in discussions regarding such possible acquisitions. Future acquisitions may expose Butler to operational challenges and risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from existing business, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves, and the potential impairment of acquired intangible assets. Butler’s ability to sustain growth and maintain a competitive position may be affected by the ability to successfully integrate any businesses acquired, which is not guaranteed. Security breaches of proprietary client information or client system failure may leave Butler liable to monetary or reputational damages. Butler’s business involves the use, storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information. Any security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to client data, our reputation will be damaged, and future business may suffer. We may be unable to 11 anticipate these risks or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs, the market perception of Butler’s security measures could be harmed and could result in the loss of sales and clients. Additionally much of Butler’s business involves projects that are critical to the operations of clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a client’s system could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of responsibility for such failure. Limitations of liability provisions set forth in certain of Butler’s service contracts may not be enforceable in all instances and may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Profits from offshore delivery service are uncertain. Part of Butler’s business success depends on our plan for success and growth in our offshore delivery services. We may face increased competition and lower margins in this sector, or may not achieve growth targets as planned. These factors could negatively impact the value of Butler’s stock. Exposure to regulatory and economic conditions in India exposes Butler to risks or loss of business. A significant element of our business strategy is to continue to develop and expand offshore operations in India. While wage costs in India are significantly lower than in the U.S. and other industrialized countries for comparably skilled IT professionals, wages in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the U.S., and could result in Butler losing its competitive edge from the switching of operations to India. In the past, India has experienced significant inflation and shortages of foreign exchange, and has been subject to civil unrest. Butler may be adversely affected by changes in inflation, exchange rate fluctuations, interest rates, tax provisions, social stability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting India in the future. In addition, the infrastructure of the Indian economy is relatively poor. Further, the Indian government is significantly involved in and exerts considerable influence over its economy through its complicated tax code and pervasive bureaucracy. In the recent past, the Indian government has provided significant tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory restrictions in order to encourage foreign investment in certain sectors of the economy, including the technology industry. Changes in the business or regulatory climate of India could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. India has also experienced persistent though declining mass poverty, civil unrest and terrorism and has been involved in conflicts with neighboring countries. In recent years, there have been military confrontations between India and Pakistan that have occurred in the region of Kashmir and along the Indian-Pakistan border. The potential for hostilities between the two countries has been high in light of tensions related to recent terrorist incidents in India and the unsettled nature of the regional geopolitical environment, including events in and related to Afghanistan and Iraq. Additionally, India’s recent nuclear activity could expose it to increased political scrutiny, exclusion, or sanctions. United States companies may decline to contract with Butler for services in light of international terrorist incidents, armed hostilities, or other political developments in India, even where India is not involved because of more generalized concerns about relying on a service provider utilizing international resources. Exercise of outstanding options and warrants will result in further dilution. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of our outstanding options and warrants will result in dilution to the interests of our stockholders, and may reduce the trading price of our common stock. At December 31, 2006, we had outstanding options and warrants to acquire 3,943,833 shares of common stock or 33% of total common stock outstanding, of which 153,667 of outstanding options are subject to future vesting. To the extent that these stock options or warrants are exercised, dilution to the interests of our stockholders will likely occur. Additional options and warrants may be issued in the future at prices not less than 85% of the fair market value of the underlying security on the date of grant. Exercises of these options or warrants, or even the potential of their exercise may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. The holders of our options or our warrants are likely to exercise them at times when the market price of the common stock exceeds the exercise price of the securities. Accordingly, the issuance of shares of common stock upon exercise of the options and warrants will likely result in dilution of the equity represented by the then outstanding shares of common stock held by other stockholders. Holders of our options and warrants can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms which are more favorable to us than the exercise terms provided by these options and warrants. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. 12 As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of the provisions of which are not yet applicable to us. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented regulatory requirements and guidance, we cannot assure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. For example, we cannot assure that in the future our management will not find additional material weaknesses in connection with our annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2003. As disclosed in the 2004 10-K, we have and continue to have a material weaknesses in our internal control in the past resulting in the restatement of our financial statements. The failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could seriously harm our business and result in a material weakness in the future. Although we have reviewed our disclosure and internal controls and procedures in order to determine whether they are effective, our controls and procedures may not be able to prevent fraud or other errors in the future. Faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established controls and procedures may make it impossible for us to ensure that the objectives of the control system are met. We therefore cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weaknesses thus not allowing our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This may prevent our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed with the SEC or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines, or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, a failure of our controls and procedures to detect fraud or other errors could seriously harm our business, results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline. The passage of legislation limiting outsourcing opportunities will adversely affect Butler’s opportunities in India. In the recent past, the issue of outsourcing of services abroad by companies has become a topic of political discussion in the United States and in other countries. Measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing by companies are under discussion in the United States Congress as well as in as many of the state legislatures. While no substantive anti-outsourcing legislation has been enacted to date that significantly adversely affects Butler, given the continuing debate over this issue, the introduction and enactment of such legislation is possible. If introduced and enacted, such measures are likely to fall within two categories: (1) a broadening of restrictions on outsourcing by government agencies and on government contracts with firms that outsource services directly or indirectly, and/or (2) measures that impact private industry, such as tax disincentives, restriction on the transfer or maintenance of certain information abroad and/or intellectual property transfer restrictions. In the event that any such measures become law, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations could be adversely affected and our ability to service our customers could be impaired. Market fluctuations in our stock price may expose investors to decreased value of Butler’s stock. Butler’s stock price has fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including factors listed in these “Risk Factors,” many of which are beyond Butler’s control. These factors include actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; announcements of new services by Butler or its competitors; announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and changes in general economic conditions. Because of this, Butler may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of its shareholders or of securities analysts and its stock price could fluctuate as a result. Concentration of ownership may impact ability of stockholders to vote and approve specific corporate resolutions. In total, Butler’s directors and executive officers retain 46.6% of voting rights in the Company. Our Directors and officers are therefore able to exercise significant voting control of Butler with respect to matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of major corporate transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 