ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company Received a "Going Concern" Opinion from Its Registered Independent Public Accounting Firm, Has a History of Operating Losses and May Not Achieve Profitability Sufficient to Generate a Positive Return on Shareholders' Investment We have incurred net losses of approximately $12.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $70.0 million, $48.5 million, and $59.6 million for 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. As of December 31, 2005 our accumulated deficit was approximately $ 291.6 million. The Company's consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 have been prepared on a “going concern” basis; however, in its report dated February 1, 2006 regarding those financial statements, our registered independent public accounting firm referred to substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern as a result of recurring losses, net capital deficiency and negative cash flows. Our future profitability will depend on many factors, including: (i) the Company’s ability to secure additional financing to fund continued operations, (ii) the successful completion of the formulation development, clinical testing and acceptable regulatory review of product candidates utilizing the Aversion® Technology; (iii) the receipt of issued patents from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) for the material claims in the Company's patent applications relating to the Aversion® Technology; (iv) the Company's ability to negotiate and execute appropriate licensing, development and commercialization agreements with qualified third parties relating to the Company’s product candidates; and (v) the successful commercialization by licensees of products incorporating the Aversion® Technology without infringing the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that we will ever have a product approved by the FDA, that we will bring any product to market or, if we are successful in doing so, that we will ever become profitable. 10 We Require Additional Funding Our requirements for additional new funding will depend on many factors, including: (i) the time required and expenses incurred in the development and commercialization of products incorporating our Aversion® Technology; (ii) the structure of any future collaborative or development agreements relating to the Aversion® Technology, including the timing and amount of payments, if any, that may be received under possible future collaborative agreements; (iii) our ability to develop additional product candidates utilizing the Aversion® Technology; (iv) our ability to negotiate agreements with qualified third parties for development, manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of products utilizing our Aversion® Technology; (v) the prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent claims and other intellectual property rights relating to the Aversion® Technology; and (vi) the successful commercialization by licensees of products incorporating our Aversion® Technology without infringing third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. To continue funding operations the Company must raise additional financing, or enter into alliances or collaborative agreements with third parties providing for net proceeds to the Company. No assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in obtaining any such financing or in securing collaborative agreements with third parties on acceptable terms, if at all, or if secured, that such financing or collaborative agreements will provide for payments to the Company sufficient to continue to fund operations. In the absence of such financing or third-party collaborative agreements, the Company will be required to scale back or terminate operations and/or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws. Even assuming the Company is successful in securing additional sources of financing to fund the continued development of the Aversion® Technology, or otherwise enters into alliances or collaborative agreements relating to the Aversion® Technology, there can be no assurance that the Company's development efforts will result in commercially viable products. We Have No Near Term Sources of Revenue and Must Rely on Current Cash Reserves, Third-Party Financing, and Technology Licensing Fees to Fund Operations Pending the negotiation of appropriate licensing agreements with pharmaceutical company partners, of which no assurance can be given, the Company must rely on its current cash reserves, third-party financing and technology licensing fees to fund the Company's operations. No assurance can be given that current cash resources will be sufficient to fund the continued development of our product candidates until such time as we generate revenue from the license of products incorporating the Aversion® Technology to third parties. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in raising additional financing to fund operations or, if funding is obtained, that such funding will be sufficient to fund operations until the Company's product candidates incorporating our Aversion® Technology, may be commercialized. The Company Is Subject to Restrictions on the Incurrence of Additional Indebtedness, Which May Adversely Impact the Company's Ability to Fund Operations Pursuant to the terms of each of the Company's outstanding secured term Loan Agreements the Company is limited as to the type and amount of future indebtedness it may incur. The restriction on the Company's ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future may adversely impact the Company's ability to fund the development of its product candidates and commercialization of its products. Our Product Candidates Are Based on Technology That Could Ultimately Prove Ineffective Our lead product candidate, OxyADF™ incorporating our Aversion® Technology is a tablet formulation intended for oral administration and has an active IND on file with FDA. The Company is focusing substantially all of its product development activities on OxyADF™ tablets. Additional clinical and non-clinical testing will be required to continue development of OxyADF™ tablets and for the preparation and submission of a 505(b)(2) new drug application (“NDA”) with the FDA. There can be no assurance that OxyADF™ tablets or any other product candidate developed using the Aversion® Technology will lead to a NDA submission to the FDA and that if a NDA is submitted, that the FDA will accept such submission and subsequently approve such regulatory application to allow for commercial distribution of the product. 11 The Company is committing substantially all of its resources and available capital to the development of OxyADF™ tablets and the prosecution of its patent applications for the Aversion® Technology. The failure of the Company to successfully develop a product candidate utilizing the Aversion® Technology, to successfully obtain an issued patent from the PTO relating to the Aversion® Technology and to avoid infringing third-party patents and intellectual property rights in the commercialization of products utilizing the Aversion® Technology will have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations and financial condition. If Pre-Clinical or Clinical Testing For Our Product Candidates Are Unsuccessful or Delayed, We Will Be Unable to Meet Our Anticipated Development and Commercialization Timelines To obtain FDA approval to commercially market any of our product candidates, we must submit to the FDA a NDA demonstrating, among other things, that the product candidate is safe and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant pre-clinical and clinical testing. As we do not possess the resources or employ all the personnel necessary to conduct such testing we rely on contract research organizations for the majority of this testing with our product candidates. As a result, we have less control over the timing and other aspects of our development program than if we performed the testing entirely on our own. Third parties may not perform their responsibilities on our anticipated schedule. Delays in our development programs could significantly increase our product development costs and delay product commercialization. In addition, many of the factors that may cause, or lead to a delay in the development program, may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. The commencement of clinical trials with our product candidates may be delayed for several reasons, including but not limited to delays in demonstrating sufficient pre-clinical safety required to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial, reaching agreements on acceptable terms with prospective collaborative partners, manufacturing and quality assurance release of a sufficient supply of a product candidate for use in our clinical trials and/or obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. Once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to several factors, including ongoing discussions with the FDA or other regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials, failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements, lower than anticipated recruitment or retention rate of patients in clinical trials, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the imposition of a clinical hold by FDA, lack of adequate funding to continue clinical trials; and/or negative or unanticipated results of clinical trials. Clinical trials, where required by the FDA for commercial approval, may not demonstrate safety or efficacy of our product candidates. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Results of later clinical trials may not replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. Even if the results of our pivotal clinical trials are positive, we and our collaborative partners may have to commit substantial time and additional resources to conduct further pre-clinical and clinical studies before we can submit NDAs or obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. Clinical trials may be expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. Further, if participating subjects or patients in clinical studies suffer drug-related adverse reactions during the course of such trials, or if we, our collaborative partner(s) or the FDA believes that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, our collaborative partner(s) may have to suspend the clinical trials. Failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and our collaborative partner(s) could encounter problems causing the abandonment of clinical trials or the need to conduct additional clinical studies, relating to a product candidate. 12 Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, their results may not support our targeted product label claims. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for their intended use. Such failure would cause us or our collaborative partner to abandon a product candidate and may delay the development of other product candidates. We May Not Obtain Required FDA Approval; the FDA Approval Process Is Time-Consuming and Expensive The development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation in the United States and other countries. Satisfaction of all regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate, and requires the expenditure of substantial resources for research, development and testing. Substantially all of the Company's operations are subject to compliance with FDA regulations. Failure to adhere to applicable FDA regulations by the Company or its licensees, if any, would have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations and financial condition. In addition, in the event the Company is successful in developing product candidates for sale in other countries, the Company would become subject to regulation in such countries. Such foreign regulations and product approval requirements are expected to be time consuming and expensive. We may encounter delays or rejections during any stage of the regulatory approval process based upon the failure of clinical or laboratory data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the products to meet, the FDA's requirements for safety, efficacy and quality; and those requirements may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new regulations. After submission of a marketing application, in the form of a new drug application (“NDA”), a 505(b)(2) NDA, or an Abbreviated New Drug Application ("ANDA"), the FDA may deny the application, may require additional testing or data and/or may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product. The FDA commonly takes one to two years to grant final approval to a marketing application (NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA or ANDA). Further, the terms of approval of any marketing application, including the labeling content, may be more restrictive than we desire and could affect the marketability of the products incorporating the Aversion® Technology. Even if we comply with all FDA regulatory requirements, we may never obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we will have fewer saleable products and corresponding lower revenues. Even if we receive regulatory approval of our products, such approval may involve limitations on the indicated uses or marketing claims we may make for our products. The FDA also has the authority to revoke or suspend approvals of previously approved products for cause, to debar companies and individuals from participating in the drug-approval process, to request recalls of allegedly violative products, to seize allegedly violative products, to obtain injunctions to close manufacturing plants allegedly not operating in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) and to stop shipments of allegedly violative products. As any future source of Company revenue will be derived from the sale of FDA approved products, the taking of any such action by the FDA would have a material adverse effect on the Company. We Must Maintain FDA Approval to Manufacture Our Products Candidates at Our Facility; Failure to Maintain Compliance with FDA Requirements May Prevent or Delay the Manufacture of Our Product Candidates and Costs of Manufacture May Be Higher Than Expected We have constructed and installed the equipment necessary to manufacture clinical trial supplies of our Aversion® Technology product candidates in tablet formulations at our Culver, Indiana facility. To be used in clinical trials, all of our product candidates must be manufactured in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations as interpreted and enforced by the FDA. All such product candidates must be manufactured, packaged, and labeled and stored in accordance with cGMPs. Modifications, enhancements or changes in manufacturing sites of marketed products are, in many circumstances, subject to FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which we may be unable to obtain. Our Culver, Indiana facility, as well as those of any third-party manufacturers that we may use, are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if such inspections are unsatisfactory. 13 Failure to comply with FDA or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of FDA review of our products, termination of ongoing research, disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. If We Retain Collaborative Partners and Our Partners Do Not Satisfy Their Obligations, We Will Be Unable to Develop Our Partnered Product Candidates To complete the development and regulatory approval of our products and commercialize our product candidates, if any are approved by the FDA, we plan to enter into development and commercialization agreements with strategically focused pharmaceutical company partners providing that such partners license our Aversion® Technologies and further develop, register, manufacture and commercialize multiple formulations and strengths of each product candidate utilizing our Aversion® Technology. We expect to receive a share of profits and/or royalty payments derived from such collaborative partners' sale of products incorporating our Aversion® Technologies. Currently, we do not have any such collaborative agreements, nor can there be any assurance that we will actually enter into collaborative agreements in the future. Our inability to enter into collaborative agreements, or our failure to maintain such agreements, would limit the number of product candidates that we can develop and ultimately, decrease our potential sources of any future revenues. In the event we enter into any collaborative agreements, we may not have day-to-day control over the activities of our collaborative partners with respect to any product candidate. Any collaborative partner may not fulfill its obligations under such agreements. If a collaborative partner fails to fulfill its obligations under an agreement with us, we may be unable to assume the development of the product covered by that agreement or to enter into alternative arrangements with a third-party. In addition, we may encounter delays in the commercialization of the product candidate that is the subject of a collaboration agreement. Accordingly, our ability to receive any revenue from the product candidates covered by collaboration agreements will be dependent on the efforts of our collaborative partner. We could be involved in disputes with a collaborative partner, which could lead to delays in or termination of, our development and commercialization programs and result in time consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. In addition, any such dispute could diminish our collaborative partners’ commitment to us and reduce the resources they devote to developing and commercializing our products. If any collaborative partner terminates or breaches its agreement, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, our chances of successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates would be materially and adversely effected. Additionally, due to the nature of the market for our product candidates, it may be necessary for us to license all or a significant portion of our product candidates to a single collaborator, thereby eliminating our opportunity to commercialize other product candidates with other collaborative partners. The Market May Not Be Receptive to Products Incorporating Our Aversion® Technology The commercial success of products incorporating our Aversion® Technology that are approved for marketing by the FDA and other regulatory authorities will depend on acceptance by health care providers and others that such products are clinically useful, cost-effective and safe. There can be no assurance given, even if we succeed in the development of products incorporating our Aversion® Technology and receive FDA approval for such products, that products incorporating the Aversion® Technology would be accepted by health care providers and others. Factors that may materially affect market acceptance of products incorporating our Aversion® Technology include: (i) the relative advantages and disadvantages of our Aversion® Technology compared to competitive abuse deterrent technologies; (ii) the relative timing to commercial launch of products utilizing our Aversion® Technology compared to products incorporating competitive abuse deterrent technologies; (iii) the relative timing of the receipt of marketing approvals and the countries in which such approvals are obtained; (iv) the relative safety and efficacy of products incorporating our Aversion® Technology compared to competitive products; and/or (v) the willingness of third party payors to reimburse for or otherwise pay for products incorporating our Aversion® Technology. Our product candidates, if successfully developed and commercially launched, will compete with both currently marketed and new products marketed by other companies. Health care providers may not accept or utilize any of our product candidates. Physicians and other prescribers may not be inclined to prescribe the products utilizing our Aversion® Technology unless our products bring clear and demonstrable advantages over other products currently marketed for the same indications. If our products licensed to partners do not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues or become profitable. 14 In the Event That We Are Successful in Bringing Any Products to Market, Our Revenues May Be Adversely Affected If We Fail to Obtain Acceptable Prices or Adequate Reimbursement For Our Products From Third-Party Payors Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products successfully may depend in part on the availability of reimbursement for our products from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other third-party payors, including Medicaid and Medicare. We cannot predict the availability of reimbursement for newly-approved products incorporating our Aversion® Technology. Third-party payors, including state Medicaid programs and Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any of our products. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care may limit our commercial opportunity. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for any product incorporating our Aversion® Technology, health care providers may not prescribe them or patients may ask to have their health care providers to prescribe competing products with more favorable reimbursement. In some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of pharmaceutical products are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals for similar controls. In addition, we expect that increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any products in the future. Further, cost control initiatives could impair our ability or the ability of our partners to commercialize our products and our ability to earn revenues from this commercialization. Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Protect Our Intellectual Property Our success depends in significant part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our Aversion® Technology, in the United States and in other countries, and to enforce these patents. The patent positions of pharmaceutical firms, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no assurance that any of our patent applications for our Aversion® Technology will issue or, if issued, that such patent(s) will be valid and enforceable against third-party infringement or that such patent(s) will not infringe any third-party patent or intellectual property. Moreover, even if patents do issue on our Aversion® Technology, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect the products incorporating the Aversion® Technology. In addition, issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Even if issued, our patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology or permit the commercialization of our products without infringing third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. Our success also depends on our not infringing patents issued to competitors or others. We may become aware of patents and patent applications belonging to competitors and others that could require us to alter our technologies. Such alterations could be time consuming and costly. We may not be able to obtain a license to any technology owned by or licensed to a third party that we require to manufacture or market one or more products incorporating our Aversion® Technology. Even if we can obtain a license, the financial and other terms may be disadvantageous. Our success also depends on our maintaining the confidentiality of our trade secrets and know-how. We seek to protect such information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, potential collaborative partners, potential investors and consultants. These agreements may be breached by such parties. We may not be able to obtain an adequate, or perhaps, any remedy to such a breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. Our inability to protect our intellectual property or to commercialize our products without infringing third-party patents or other intellectual property rights would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 15 We May Become Involved in Patent Litigation or Other Intellectual Property Proceedings Relating to Our Products, Aversion® Technology or Opioid Synthesis Technologies Which Could Result in Liability for Damages or Delay or Stop Our Development and Commercialization Efforts The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications and other intellectual property rights. The types of situations in which we may become parties to such litigation or proceedings include: (i) we may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to enforce our patent rights or other intellectual property rights; (ii) we may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to invalidate the patents held by such third parties or to obtain a judgment that our products or processes do not infringe such third parties' patents; (iii) if our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we may participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention; and (iv) if third parties initiate litigation claiming that our processes or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we will need to defend against such proceedings. The costs of resolving any patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Many of our competitors will be able to sustain the cost of such litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other intellectual property proceedings may also consume significant management time. Our Aversion® Technology may be found to infringe upon claims of patents owned by others. If we determine or if we are found to be infringing on a patent held by another, we might have to seek a license to make, use, and sell the patented technologies. In that case, we might not be able to obtain such license on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If a legal action is brought against us, we could incur substantial defense costs, and any such action might not be resolved in our favor. If such a dispute is resolved against us, we may have to pay the other party large sums of money and our use of our Aversion® Technology and the testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale of one or more of our products could be restricted or prohibited. Even prior to resolution of such a dispute, use of our Aversion® Technology and the testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale of one or more of our products could be restricted or prohibited. Moreover, other parties could have blocking patent rights to products made using the Aversion® Technology. The Company is aware of certain United States and International pending patent applications owned by third parties claiming abuse deterrent technologies. If such patent applications result in issued patents, with claims encompassing our Aversion® Technology or products, the Company may need to obtain a license to such patents, should one be available, or alternatively, alter the Aversion® Technology so as to avoid infringing such third-party patents. If the Company is unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, the Company could be restricted or prevented from commercializing products utilizing the Aversion® Technology. Additionally, any alterations to the Aversion® Technology in view of pending third-party patent applications could be time consuming and costly and may not result in technologies or products that are non-infringing or commercially viable. The Company expects to seek and obtain licenses to such patents or patent applications when, in the Company's judgment, such licenses are needed. If any such licenses are required, there can be no assurances that the Company would be able to obtain any such license on commercially favorable terms, or at all, and if these licenses are not obtained, the Company might be prevented from making, using and selling the Aversion® Technology and products. The Company's failure to obtain a license to any technology that it may require would materially harm the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that the Company's products and/or actions in developing products incorporating our Aversion® Technology will not infringe third-party patents. We May Be Exposed to Product Liability Claims and May Not Be Able to Obtain Adequate Product Liability Insurance Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. Product liability claims might be made by consumers, health care providers or pharmaceutical companies or others that sell our products. These claims may be made even with respect to those products that are manufactured in licensed and regulated facilities or that otherwise possess regulatory approval for commercial sale. 16 We are currently covered by clinical trial product liability insurance on a claims-made basis. This coverage may not be adequate to cover any product liability claims. Product liability coverage is expensive. In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain such product liability insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability claims. Any claims that are not covered by product liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by frequent litigation. Those companies with significant financial resources will be better able to bring and defend any such litigation. No assurance can be given that we would not become involved in such litigation. Such litigation may have material adverse consequences to the Company's financial conditions and operations. We Face Significant Competition Which May Result in Others Developing or Commercializing Products Before or More Successfully Than We Do The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is affected by new technologies, governmental regulations, health care legislation, availability of financing, litigation and other factors. If our product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at lower costs. If our products are unable to capture and maintain market share, we will not achieve significant product revenues and our financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We will compete for market share against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies or other companies that collaborate with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have products already approved, marketed or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs, have substantially greater financial resources, experience in developing products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, formulating and manufacturing drugs, and commercializing drugs than we do. Subject to a decision and recommendation by the administrative law judge about our application for a license to import narcotic raw materials, we are concentrating substantial all of our efforts on developing product candidates incorporating our Aversion® Technology. The commercial success of products using our Aversion® Technology will depend, in large part, on the intensity of competition from other companies marketing branded opioid containing products, generic versions of branded opioid containing products and other drugs and technologies that compete with the products incorporating our Aversion® Technology, and the relative timing and sequence of new product approvals. Alternative technologies and products are being developed to improve or replace the use of opioids for pain management, several of which are in clinical trials or are awaiting approval from the FDA. In the event that such alternatives to opioid containing products are widely adopted, then the market for products incorporating our Aversion® Technology may be substantially decreased subsequently reducing the Company’s opportunity to generate future revenues and profits. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") Limits the Availability of the Active Ingredients Used in Our Product Candidates and, as a Result, Our Quota May Not Be Sufficient to Complete Clinical Trials or to Meet Commercial Demand or May Result in Development Delays The DEA regulates certain finished products and bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients. Certain opioid active pharmaceutical ingredients in our current product candidates are classified by the DEA as Schedule II substances under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Consequently, their manufacture, research, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. Furthermore, the amount of Schedule II substances we can obtain for clinical trials and commercial distribution is limited by the DEA and our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or meet commercial demand. There is a risk that DEA regulations may interfere with the supply of the products used in our clinical trials, and, in the future, our ability to produce and distribute our products in the volume needed to meet commercial demand. 17 We May Not Be Successful in Commercializing Our Opioid Synthesis Technologies Historically the Company has been engaged in research, development and manufacture of proprietary, high yield, short cycle time, environmentally sensitive opioid manufacturing processes (the "Opioid Synthesis Technologies") intended for use in the commercial manufacturing of certain bulk opioid active pharmaceutical ingredients ("APIs"). The Company has suspended further development and commercialization efforts relating to its Opioid Synthesis Technologies. We have determined based on our limited cash reserves, the additional funding required for facility improvements for commercial scale up for our Opioid Synthesis Technologies, the projected timeline for resolution of our application to the DEA for a narcotic raw material import registration (the “Import Registration”), and other factors that suspending activities relating to the Opioid Synthesis Technologies is in our best interest. We expect to re-evaluate the development and commercialization of the Opioid Synthesis Technologies after the Administrative Law Judge makes a determination relating to our Import Registration. No assurance can be given that development and commercialization efforts relating to the Opioid Synthesis Technologies will resume in the future, or even if such activities resume, that the Opioid Synthesis Technologies will be capable of commercial scale up or will be commercialized. We May Not Obtain DEA Approval for Our Import Registration Since early 2001 we have been engaged in the application process to obtain an Import Registration from the DEA to import narcotic raw materials directly from foreign countries for use in commercial manufacturing certain bulk opioid APIs. No assurance can be given that the Import Registration application will be approved by the DEA or that if granted by DEA, the Import Registration would be upheld following an appellate challenge. The Market Price of Our Common Stock May Be Volatile The market price of our common stock, like the market price for securities of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, has historically been highly volatile. The market from time to time experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Factors, such as fluctuations in our operating results, future sales of our common stock, announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us or our competitors, announcements regarding collaborative agreements, clinical trial results, government regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or others, changes in reimbursement policies, comments made by securities analysts and general market conditions may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management's attention and resources. The Company's common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, a NASD-sponsored inter-dealer quotation system. As the Company's common stock is not quoted on a stock exchange and is not qualified for inclusion on the NASD Small-Cap Market, our common stock could be subject to a rule by the Securities and Exchange Commission that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent for a transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company's common stock and the ability of purchasers in the offering to sell the common stock received upon conversion of the Preferred Shares in the secondary market. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the OTC Bulletin Board. Investors may be not able to sell their shares of common stock quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our common stock is not active. Our Quarterly Results of Operations Will Fluctuate, and These Fluctuations Could Cause Our Stock Price to Decline Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. The nature of our business involves variable factors, such as the timing of the research, development and regulatory pathways of our product candidates that could cause our operating results to fluctuate. 18 No Dividends The Company has not declared and paid cash dividends on its common stock in the past, and the Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company's senior term loan indebtedness prohibits the payment of cash dividends. Control of the Company GCE Holdings LLC beneficially owns approximately 78% of the Company's outstanding common stock. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Voting Agreement dated February 6, 2004, as amended, between the Company and the former holders of the Company's outstanding convertible preferred stock, all such shareholders have agreed that the Board of Directors shall be comprised of not more than 7 members, 4 of whom shall be the designees of GCE Holdings LLC (the assignee of all Preferred Stock (prior to its conversion into common stock) formerly held by each of Care Capital Investments II, LP, Care Capital Offshore Investments II, LP, Essex Woodlands Health Ventures V, L.P., Galen Partners International III, L.P., Galen Partners III, L.P. and Galen Employee Fund III, L.P.), As a result, GCE Holdings LLC, in view of its ownership percentage of the Company and by virtue of its controlling position on the Company's Board of Directors, will be able to control or significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of GCE Holdings LLC may not always coincide with the interests of other shareholders and such entity may take action in advance of its interests to the detriment of our other shareholders. Key Personnel Are Critical to Our Business, and Our Future Success Depends on Our Ability to Retain Them We are highly dependent on the principal members our of management and scientific team, particularly Andrew D. Reddick, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Ron J. Spivey, Ph.D. our Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the intense competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. While we have employment agreements with certain employees, all of our employees are at-will employees who may terminate their employment with the Company at any time. We do not have key personnel insurance on any of our officers or employees. The loss of any of our key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain such personnel, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product and technology development and business objectives and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of such operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 