Risk Factors Certain risks are inherent with loan portfolios containing commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial business and consumer loans. While these types of loans provide benefits to the Company's asset/liability management programs and reduce exposure to interest rate changes, such loans may entail significant additional credit risks compared to residential mortgage lending. Commercial real estate and multi-family loans may involve large loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. In addition, the repayment of loans secured by income-producing properties is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate project. If the cash flow from the property is reduced (for example, if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrower's ability to repay the Company's loans may be impaired. These risks can be affected significantly by supply and demand in the market for the type of property securing the loan and by general economic conditions. Thus, commercial and multi-family loans may be subject, to a greater extent than single-family property loans, to adverse conditions in the economy. Commercial business lending generally involves greater risk than residential mortgage lending and involves risks that are different from those associated with residential, commercial and multi-family real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values, and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral is viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of a borrower default is often not a sufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible, and inventories and equipment may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of a commercial business loan depends primarily on th e creditworthiness of the borrower (and any guarantors), while liquidation of collateral is a secondary and often insufficient source of repayment. Construction lending also involves a higher degree of risk than residential mortgage lending. The Company's construction loans are based upon estimates of costs to construct and value associated with the completed project, and these estimates may be inaccurate. Because of uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project, it is relatively difficult to evaluate the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. Delays in completing the project may arise from labor problems, material shortages and other unpredictable contingencies. If the estimate of the cost of construction is inaccurate, the Company may be required to advance additional funds to complete construction. If the Company's appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, the Company may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of the project. Consumer loans entail greater risk than do residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as automobiles and other vehicles. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower beyond obtaining a deficiency judgment. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on su ch loans. Mobile home lending typically involves additional risks due to the extended terms with collateral that declines in value. The loan amounts are generally higher that other types of consumer loans and, historically, these homeowners may be deemed a higher credit risk due to various factors. Mobile home loan customers are more likely to be adversely impacted by weak economic indicators, loss of employment and increases in other household costs. Consequently, mobile home loans have a greater probability of default, higher delinquency rates, and greater servicing costs relative to other consumer loans. Due to these factors, mobile home loans are priced at a higher rate of interest. In recent years defaults and delinquencies nationwide approached record levels due to liberal underwriting by national lenders. The result was higher than normal charge offs with the market being flooded with repossessed homes and resale values declining significantly . Although the Company believes these adverse 6 conditions peaked in 2004 and the industry has begun to recover, no assurance can be given that these conditions will not recur in the near future. All of the above risk factors are present in the Company's loan portfolio and could have a material impact on future delinquency and charge-off rates and levels. Limits on Loan Concentrations The Company's permissible lending limits for loans to one borrower is the greater of $500,000, or 15% of unimpaired capital and surplus (except for loans fully secured by certain readily marketable collateral, in which case this limit is increased to 25% of unimpaired capital and surplus). At September 30, 2005, First Federal's lending limit under this restriction was $28 million. A broader limitation (the lesser of $30 million, or 30% of unimpaired capital and surplus) is provided under certain circumstances, subject to OTS approval, for loans to develop domestic residential housing units. In addition, the Association may provide purchase money financing for the sale of any asset without regard to the loans to one borrower limitation so long as no new funds are advanced and the Association is not placed in a more detrimental position than if it had held the asset. At September 30, 2005, the largest aggregate amount of loans by First Fed eral to any one borrower, including related entities, was approximately $21.3 million. All of these loans were performing according to their respective terms at September 30, 2005. Delinquencies and Nonperforming Assets Delinquent and problem loans are a normal part of any lending activity. When a borrower fails to make a required payment on a loan, the Company attempts to cure the default by contacting the borrower. The Company contacts the borrower after a payment is past due 17 days for mortgage loans and 10 days for consumer loans, and a late charge is assessed on the loan. In most cases, defaults are cured promptly. If the delinquency on a mortgage loan continues for 60 to 90 days and is not cured through normal collection procedures or an acceptable arrangement is not worked out with the borrower, the Company will institute measures to remedy the default, including commencing a foreclosure action. The Company may accept voluntary deeds of the secured property in lieu of foreclosure, when applicable. The Company's mortgage loans are secured by the use of a mortgage instrument. Notice of default under these loans is required to be recorded and mailed. If the default is not cured within three months, a notice of sale is posted, mailed and advertised, and a sale is then conducted. Real estate acquired by the Company as a result of foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure is classified as real estate owned until it is sold. When property is acquired, it is recorded at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less cost to sell at the date of acquisition, and any resulting write-down is charged to the allowance for losses. Generally, interest accrual on a loan ceases when the loan becomes 90 days delinquent. OTS Asset Classification System OTS regulations include a classification system for problem assets. Under this classification system, problem assets for insured institutions are classified as "substandard," "doubtful" or "loss," depending on the presence of certain characteristics discussed below. An asset is considered "substandard" if it is inadequately protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. "Substandard" assets include those assets characterized by the "distinct possibility" that the institution will sustain "some loss" if the deficiencies are not corrected. Assets classified as "doubtful" have all of the weaknesses inherent in those classified as "substandard" with the added characteristic that the weaknesses present make "collection or liquidation in full," on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, "highly questionable and improbable." Assets classified as "loss" are those considered "uncollectible" and of such little value that continuance as assets without the establishment of a specific loss reserve is not warranted. When an institution classifies problem assets as either substandard or doubtful, it is required to establish general allowances for loan losses in an amount deemed prudent by management. General allowances represent loss allowances which have been established to recognize the inherent risks associated with lending activities, but which, unlike specific allowances, have not been allocated to particular problem assets. When an institution classifies problem assets as "loss," it is required either to establish a specific allowance for losses equal to 100% of the amount of the asset so classified or to charge off such amount. An institution's determination as to the classification of its assets and the amount of its valuation allowances is subject to review by the OTS, which can order the establishment 7 of additional general or specific loss allowances. The Company has classified $10.4 million in assets as substandard as of September 30, 2005 compared to $15.9 million as of September 30, 2004. The OTS classification of assets regulation also provides for a "special mention" designation, in addition to the "substandard," "doubtful" and "loss" classifications. "Special mention" assets are defined as those that do not currently expose an institution to a sufficient degree of risk to warrant classification as either "substandard," "doubtful" or "loss" but do possess credit deficiencies or potential weaknesses deserving management's close attention which, if not corrected, could weaken the asset and increase such risk in the future. The Company had $189 thousand of assets designated "special mention", and there were no assets designated as "doubtful" or "loss" as of September 30, 2005. As of September 30, 2004 the Company had $1.8 million of assets designated "special mention" and there were no assets designated as &qu ot;doubtful" or "loss". Management periodically reviews its loan portfolio, and has, in the opinion of management, appropriately classified and established allowances against all assets requiring classification under the regulation. For further discussion of the Company's problem assets, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - -- Financial Position -- Asset Quality," and Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 herein. INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES The Association is required under federal regulations to maintain adequate liquidity to ensure safe-and-sound operations. Investment decisions are made by authorized officers of the Company and the Association within policies established by the Company's and the Association's Boards of Directors. At September 30, 2005, the Company's investment and mortgage-backed securities portfolio totaled approximately $394.7 million, which included stock in the FHLB of Atlanta of $25.2 million. Investment securities included U.S. Government and agency obligations, corporate bonds and mutual funds approximating $28.0 million. Mortgage-backed securities totaled $341.5 million as of September 30, 2005. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, contained in Item 8 herein for a discussion of the Company's accounting policy for investment and mortgage-backed securities. See Notes 5 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding investment and mortgage-backed securities and FHLB of Atlanta stock. The Company achieves the objectives of its investment policies through investing in U.S. Government, federal agency and corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, short-term money market instruments, mutual funds, loans and other investments as authorized by OTS regulations and specifically approved by the Boards of Directors of the Company and the Association. Investment portfolio guidelines specifically identify those securities eligible for purchase and describe the operations and reporting requirements of the Investment Committee, which executes investment policy. The primary objective of the Company in its management of the investment portfolio is to maintain a portfolio of high quality, highly liquid investments with returns competitive with short-term treasury or agency securities and highly rated corporate securities. As a member of the FHLB System, the Association is required to maintain an investment in the common stock of the FHLB of Atlanta. See "Regulation - -- Federal Regulation of Savings Associations -- Federal Home Loan Bank System." The stock of the FHLB of Atlanta is redeemable at par value. Securities may differ in terms of default risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and expected rate of return. Default risk is the risk that an issuer will be unable to make interest payments, or to repay the principal amount on schedule. The Company may invest in U.S. Government and federal agency obligations. U.S. Treasury obligations are regarded as free of default risk. The credit quality of corporate debt varies widely. The Company principally invests in corporate debt securities rated in one of the four highest categories by two nationally recognized investment rating services. The Company's investment in mortgage-backed securities serves several primary functions. First, the Company may securitize whole loans for mortgage-backed securities issued by federal agencies to use as collateral for certain of its borrowings and to secure public agency deposits. Second, the Company may periodically securitize loans with federal agencies to reduce its credit risk exposure and to reduce regulatory risk-based capital requirements. Third, the Company acquires mortgage-backed securities from time to time to meet earning asset growth objectives and provide additional interest income when necessary to augment lower loan originations and replace loan portfolio runoff. The company did not securitize portfolio loans and reclassify as securities available for sale during fiscal year 2005. 8 The following table sets forth the amortized cost and fair value of the Company's investment and mortgage-backed securities, by type of security, as of September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003. All of the Company's investment and mortgage-backed securities were classified as "available for sale" as of the dates shown. Table 3 INVESTMENT AND MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES PORTFOLIO (in thousands) As of September 30, 2005 2004 2003 Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value Securities Available for Sale: U.S. Treasury and U.S. Government agencies and corporations $ 3,425 $ 3,366 $ 3,245 $ 3,230 $ 2,250 $ 2,253 Corporate debt and other securities 22,425 22,503 15,889 15,869 10,493 10,404 Mutual funds 2,155 2,154 9,827 9,827 1,130 1,130 Mortgage-backed securities 346,841 341,533 349,199 346,847 302,285 303,470 Total securities available for sale $ 374,846 $ 369,556 $ 378,160 $ 375,773 $ 316,158 $ 317,257 The following table provides information regarding the contractual maturities and weighted average yields of the Company's investment and mortgage-backed securities held as of September 30, 2005. Table 4 MATURITY AND YIELD SCHEDULE AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2005 (dollars in thousands) After One After Five Within But Within But Within After Ten One year Five Years Ten Years Years Total U.S. Treasury and U.S. Government agencies and corporations $ 3,425 $ 3,425 Corporate debt and other securities $ 2,990 $ 997 $ 18,438 22,425 Mutual funds 2,155 2,155 Mortgage-backed securities 2 712 10,714 335,413 346,841 $ 5,146 $ 4,138 $ 11,711 $ 353,851 $ 374,846 Weighted average yield U.S. Treasury and U.S. Government agencies and corporations 2.49 % 2.49 % Corporate debt and other securities 3.64 % 6.85 % 5.05 % 4.94 Mutual funds 2.70 2.70 Mortgage-backed securities 8.25 8.32 4.26 3.99 4.01 3.25 % 3.50 % 4.48 % 4.05 % 4.04 % INSURANCE ACTIVITIES First Southeast Insurance Services, Inc. ("FSIns") and its subsidiaries, Kinghorn Insurance Services and Johnson Insurance and Benefit Administrators, operate as an independent insurance agency and brokerage headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina. FSIns operates through eleven offices, seven located throughout the coastal region of South Carolina, two offices in Florence County, South Carolina, and one office each in Columbia, South Carolina and Lake Wylie, South Carolina. Kimbrell Insurance Group, Inc. ("Kimbrell") consists of two managing general agencies and a premium finance company. Kimbrell operates through one office located in Murrells Inlet, South Carolina. Total revenues for fiscal 2005 were $19.8 million and consist principally of commissions paid by insurance companies. Commission income also includes contingency commissions, which is income received from insurance companies based on the growth, volume or profitability of insurance policies written with companies in prior 9 periods. Substantially all contingency income, which totaled $2.6 million in fiscal 2005 and $1.7 million in fiscal 2004, is received in the first calendar quarter of each year as the measurement criteria is calculated on a full calendar year basis. Commission revenues are subject to fluctuations based on the premium rates established by insurance companies. Contingency commissions can also be significantly affected by the loss experience of FSIns's and Kimbrell's customers. In the recent past, reacting to higher loss ratios, the increased cost of litigation and insurance awards, and the cost of reinsurance, many insurance companies have increased premium rates. Additionally, the willingness of insurance companies to write business and homeowners property insurance in coastal market places, the renewal of business with existing customers, and economic and competitive market conditions also may impact the revenues of FSIns and Kimbrell. Insurance revenues for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 accounted for approximately 11.3%, 10.6% and 7.8%, respectively, of gross revenues of the Company. Through its relationship with these affiliates, First Federal markets FSIns's insurance products and services to its customers. Additionally, First Federal employees refer retail and business customers to FSIns. FSIns utilizes Kimbrell for placement of some insurance products. For more information on insurance revenue, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 herein. SOURCES OF FUNDS Deposits have historically been the primary source of funds for lending and investing activities. The amortization and scheduled payment of loans and mortgage-backed securities and maturities of investment securities provide a stable source of funds, while deposit fluctuations and loan prepayments are significantly influenced by the interest rate environment and other market conditions. FHLB advances and short-term borrowings provide supplemental liquidity sources based on specific needs or if management determines that these are the best sources of funds to meet current requirements. Deposits The Company offers a number of deposit accounts including non-interest-bearing checking accounts, interest-bearing checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, individual retirement accounts ("IRAs") and certificate accounts which generally range in maturity from three months to five years. Deposit account terms vary, with the principal differences being the minimum balance required, the time period the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate. For a schedule of the dollar amounts in each major category of the Company's deposit accounts, see Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 herein. The Association is subject to fluctuations in deposit flows because of the influence of general interest rates, money market conditions and competitive factors. The Asset and Liability Committee of the Association meets frequently and makes changes relative to the mix, maturity and pricing of assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact on earnings from such external conditions. Deposits are attractive sources of liquidity because of their stability, generally lower cost than other funding sources and the ability to provide fee income through service charges and cross-sales of other services. The Association's deposits are obtained primarily from residents of South Carolina. Management estimates that less than 1% of deposits at September 30, 2005, are obtained from customers residing outside of its market area in South Carolina and North Carolina. The Company's principal methods to attract and retain deposit accounts include the offering of a wide variety of services and accounts, competitive interest rates, and convenient office locations and service hours. Jumbo Certificates of Deposit The Company does not rely significantly on large denomination time deposits. The following table indicates the amount of the Company's jumbo certificates of deposit by time remaining until maturity as of September 30, 2005. Jumbo certificates of deposit require minimum deposits of $100,000 and have negotiable interest rates. 10 Table 5 JUMBO CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSITS (dollars in thousands) Maturity Period Three months or less $ 26,926 Over three through six months 12,824 Over six through twelve months 9,487 Over twelve months 3,240 Total $ 52,477 Borrowings The Company relies upon advances from the FHLB of Atlanta to supplement its supply of lendable funds and to meet deposit withdrawal requirements. The FHLB of Atlanta serves as the Company's primary borrowing source. Advances from the FHLB of Atlanta are typically secured by the Company's stock in the FHLB of Atlanta and a portion of the Company's first mortgage and certain second mortgage loans. Interest rates on advances vary from time to time in response to general economic conditions. Advances must be fully collateralized and limits are established for the Association. Currently, the FHLB of Atlanta has granted the Association a limit on FHLB of Atlanta advances of 40% of First Federal's assets, or $990.6 million. At September 30, 2005, the Company had advances totaling $452.0 million from the FHLB of Atlanta at a weighted average rate of 4.39%. At September 30, 2005, the original maturity of the Association's FHLB advances ranged from one to ten years. The Company has periodically entered into transactions to sell securities under agreements to repurchase ("reverse repurchase agreements") through broker-dealers. Reverse repurchase agreements evidence indebtedness of the company arising from the sale of securities that the Company is obligated to repurchase at specified prices and dates. At the date of repurchase, the Company will, in some cases enter into another reverse repurchase agreement to fund the repurchase of the maturing agreement. For regulatory and accounting purposes these reverse repurchase agreements are deemed to be borrowings collateralized by the securities sold. At September 30, 2005, the Company had $128.8 million of outstanding reverse repurchase agreements secured by mortgage-backed securities. The agreements had a weighted average interest rate of 3.83% at September 30, 2005, and mature within two months. For more information on borrowings, see Notes 14, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 herein. During 1998, the Company entered into a loan agreement with another bank for a $25.0 million funding line, which was increased to $35.0 million during fiscal 2000. The rate on the funding line was based on three month LIBOR. In March 2004, the outstanding balance on this line of credit was repaid from partial proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt associated with trust preferred securities and the line was cancelled. For more information on trust preferred securities, see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 herein. Prior to the purchase of Kimbrell by the Company, in fiscal year 2004, a subsidiary of Kimbrell entered into a secured $2.0 million funding line of credit with another bank. During fiscal 2005 the balance on this line of credit was repaid. Long-term debt The Company's long-term debt totaled $46.4 million at September 30, 2005 and is primarily related to the issuance of trust preferred securities. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 herein. The following table sets forth certain information regarding borrowings by the Company at the end of and during the periods indicated: 11 Table 6 BORROWINGS (dollars in thousands) At or For the Year Ended September 30, 2005 2004 2003 Weighted Average Rate Paid On (at end of period): FHLB advances 4.39 % 3.75 % 4.29 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 3.83 Bank line of credit 3.12 Other borrowings 2.78 3.62 Junior subordinated debt 7.00 7.00 Maximum Amount of Borrowings Outstanding at month end (during period): FHLB advances $ 624,000 $ 722,000 $ 600,000 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 145,036 159,502 Bank line of credit 24,075 26,750 Other borrowings 1,151 2,019 Junior subordinated debt 45,000 45,000 Approximate Average Amount of Borrowings: FHLB advances 537,370 636,204 549,826 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 112,432 76,076 Bank line of credit 11,577 26,560 Other borrowings 274 1,379 Junior subordinated debt 45,000 23,361 Approximate Weighted Average Rate Paid On (during period): FHLB advances 3.96 % 3.89 % 4.94 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 3.01 1.27 Bank line of credit 3.03 3.50 Other borrowings 7.13 3.31 Junior subordinated debt 7.00 7.00 ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT Market Risk Market risk is the risk of economic loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and rates. This risk of loss can be reflected in either diminished current market values or reduced potential net interest income in future periods. The Company's market risk arises principally from interest rate risk inherent in its lending, deposit and borrowing activities. Management actively monitors and manages its interest rate risk exposure. Although the Company manages other risks, such as credit quality and liquidity risk, in the normal course of business, management considers interest rate risk to be its most significant market risk and could potentially have the largest material effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Other types of market risks, such as foreign currency exchange rate risk and commodity price risk, do not arise in the normal course of the Company's b usiness activities. The Company's profitability is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Management's goal is to maintain a reasonable balance between exposure to interest rate fluctuations and earnings. A sudden and substantial increase in interest rates may adversely impact the Company's earnings to the extent that the interest rates on interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities do not change at the same speed, to the same extent or on the same basis. The Company monitors the impact of changes in interest rates on its net interest income using several tools. One measure of the Company's exposure to differential changes in interest rates between assets and liabilities is shown in the Company's Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Table. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - -- Asset and Liability Management and Liquidity." The Company performs analyses assuming that interest rates increase or decrease by specified amounts in equal increments over the next four quarters. Combined with internal assumptions of new business activity and assumptions of changes in product pricing relative to rate changes, these analyses indicate that from a base rate scenario assuming no change in rates a gradual increase of 100 basis points over the next twelve months would decrease net interest income by 5.2%. Should rates gradually decline over the next twelve months by 100 basis points from the base rate scenario, net interest income would increase by 3.6% over that period. 12 Another measure, required to be performed by OTS-regulated institutions, is the test specified by OTS Thrift Bulletin No. 13A, "Interest Rate Risk Management." This test measures the impact on net portfolio value of an immediate change in interest rates in 100 basis point increments. Net portfolio value is defined as the net present value of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At September 30, 2005, the Company's internal calculations, based on the information and assumptions produced for the analysis, suggested that a 200 basis point instantaneous increase in rates would decrease net interest income over a twelve-month period by 20.5% and decrease net portfolio value by 14.5%. Based on internal calculations, a 100 basis point instantaneous decline in rates would increase net interest income over a twelve-month period by 3.2% and decrease net portfolio value by 5.4% in the same period. Computation of prospective effects of hypothetical interest rate changes are based on numerous assumptions, including relative levels of market interest rates, loan prepayments and deposit decay rates, and should not be relied upon as indicative of actual results. Further, the computations do not contemplate any actions the Company could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. The following table shows the Company's financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, categorized by expected maturity, and the instruments' fair values at September 30, 2005. Market risk sensitive instruments are generally defined as on- and off-balance sheet derivatives and other financial instruments. Table 7 INTEREST-SENSITIVE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (dollars in thousands) Expected Maturity/Principal Repayments at September 30, Average Rate 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Cost Fair Value Interest-sensitive assets: Loans receivable 6.36 % $283,258 $240,769 $204,654 $173,956 $147,863 $837,889 $1,888,389 $1,888,634 Mortgage-backed securities 4.01 86,710 65,033 48,775 36,581 27,436 82,306 346,841 341,533 Investments 4.47 5,145 3,425 19,435 28,005 28,023 FHLB Stock 3.89 25,165 25,165 25,165 Interest-sensitive liabilities: Checking accounts 0.41 112,216 32,367 26,869 5,972 5,701 120,161 303,286 303,286 Savings accounts 0.55 28,850 18,184 15,836 8,996 8,228 89,609 169,703 169,703 Money Market accounts 2.05 201,800 2,953 2,790 1,256 1,223 45,464 255,486 255,486 Certificate accounts 3.46 362,375 163,184 123,317 21,527 38,585 2,663 711,651 707,327 Borrowings 4.46 280,851 50,000 25,000 - 125,000 147,204 628,055 635,626 Expected maturities are contractual maturities adjusted for prepayments of principal. The Company uses certain assumptions to estimate fair values and expected maturities. For assets, expected maturities are based upon contractual maturity, projected repayments and prepayment of principal. The prepayment experience reflected herein is based on the Company's historical experience. For deposit liabilities, in accordance with standard industry practice, the Company has used decay rates utilized by the OTS. The actual maturities and run-off of loans could vary substantially if future prepayments differ from the Company's historical experience. Rate/Volume Analysis For the Company's rate/volume analysis and information regarding the Company's yields and costs and changes in net interest income, refer to Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - -- Net Interest Income." SUBSIDIARY ACTIVITIES OF THE ASSOCIATION The Carolopolis Corporation The Carolopolis Corporation ("Carolopolis") was incorporated in 1976 for the principal purpose of land acquisition and development and construction of various projects for resale. Development activities began in 1981 and ended in 1989. Carolopolis had been inactive for a number of years until 1996 when a lower tier corporation of Carolopolis was formed to operate and market for resale a commercial real estate property acquired through foreclosure by First Federal. Carolopolis is currently inactive. 13 Broad Street Holdings Broad Street Holdings was incorporated in 1998 as the holding company for Broad Street Investments, Inc., which was also formed in 1998. Broad Street Investments has been organized as a real estate investment trust to hold mortgage-related assets. First Reinsurance First Reinsurance was incorporated in 1998 as the holding company for First Southeast Reinsurance, Inc., a company also organized in 1998 and domiciled in Vermont. First Southeast Reinsurance reinsures mortgage insurance originated through mortgage insurance companies in connection with real estate loans originated by the Association. First Southeast Fiduciary & Trust First Southeast Fiduciary & Trust Services, Inc. was incorporated in 1998 for the purpose of extending trust and other asset management services in a fiduciary capacity to customers of the Association. Assets under management totaled $100.6 million at September 30, 2005. Port City Ventures Port City Ventures, LLC was incorporated in 2002 to hold the general partner's interest in the limited partnership called North Central Apartments, LP ("North Central"), a low-income senior citizen housing development. North Central received approval in October 2003 for low income housing tax credits from the South Carolina State Housing Finance and Development Authority. These credits will be utilized by the Company when it files its consolidated tax returns. Great Atlantic Mortgage Great Atlantic Mortgage was incorporated in 2005 as a joint venture with a local real estate firm to originate mortgages. Operations are based in Charleston, South Carolina with a sales office located in Pawleys Island, South Carolina. SUBSIDIARY ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY Insurance Operations First Southeast Insurance Services First Southeast Insurance Services, formerly known as the Magrath Insurance Agency, was purchased by Peoples Federal in 1986. In 1988, the agency purchased two smaller insurance agencies. The Company acquired Peoples Federal in 1992. During 1995 the Epps-McLendon Agency in Lake City, South Carolina was purchased. In 1995 the Adams Insurance Agency in Charleston, South Carolina, which had been purchased by First Federal in 1990, was purchased from a subsidiary of First Federal. During 2000, the operations of Associated Insurors of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina were acquired. Subsequent purchases have included the Hilton Head, Bluffton and Ridgeland operations of Kinghorn Insurance in 2001, Johnson Insurance Associates and Benefit Administrators of Columbia, South Carolina in 2002 and Woodruff & Company, Inc. of Columbia, South Carolina in 2003. Also during 2003, Benefit Administrators, Inc., an affiliate of Johnson Insurance, a subsidi ary of First Southeast Insurance Services, purchased third party health benefit administration relationships with a group of accounts located in the southeast from MCA Administrators, Inc., based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Today, First Southeast Insurance Services is one of the largest independent insurance agencies in South Carolina. Its affiliate, Kinghorn Insurance Services, Inc. is the largest independent Allstate Agency in the United States. Kimbrell Insurance Group, Inc. Kimbrell Insurance Group, Inc. was incorporated in January 2004 as the holding company for the operations of The Kimbrell Company, Inc., The Kimbrell Company, Inc./Florida, Preferred Markets, Inc., Preferred Markets, Inc./Florida and Atlantic Acceptance Corporation, which were purchased in 2004. The Kimbrell companies are a managing general agency specializing in placing coverage within the non-standard 14 insurance market. Non-standard markets offer coverage to customers that have unusual or high-risk exposures. The Preferred Markets companies are a managing general agency specializing in placing coverage in standard insurance markets. Atlantic Acceptance Corporation is a premium finance company. First Southeast Investor Services First Southeast Investor Services, incorporated in South Carolina, has been a NASD-registered introducing broker dealer since 1998. First Southeast Investor Services offers a variety of investment products and services in strategically located offices throughout First Financial's market area. COMPETITION First Federal was the largest savings association headquartered in South Carolina at September 30, 2005, based on asset size as reported by the OTS. The Company faces strong competition in the attraction of savings deposits and in the origination of real estate and other loans. The Company's most direct competition for savings deposits has historically come from commercial banks and from other savings institutions located throughout South Carolina. The Company also faces competition for savings from credit unions and competition for investors' funds from short-term money market securities and other corporate and government securities. In the more recent past, money market, stock, and fixed-income mutual funds have attracted an increasing share of household savings and are significant competitors of the Company. The Company's competition for real estate and other loans comes principally from commercial banks, mortgage-banking companies, insurance companies, developers, tract builders and other institutional lenders. The Company competes for loans principally through the interest rates and loan fees charged and the efficiency and quality of the services provided borrowers, developers, real estate brokers and home builders. PERSONNEL As of September 30, 2005, the Company had 791 full-time equivalent employees. The Company provides its full-time employees and certain part-time employees with a comprehensive program of benefits, including medical and dental benefits, life insurance, long-term disability coverage, a profit-sharing plan and a 401(k) plan. The employees are not represented by a collective bargaining agreement. The Company believes its employee relations are excellent. REGULATION The Association, as a federally-chartered savings institution, is subject to federal regulation and oversight by the OTS extending to all aspects of its operations. The Association also is subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC, which insures the deposits of the Association to the maximum extent permitted by law, and requirements established by the Federal Reserve Board. Federally-chartered savings institutions are required to file periodic reports with the OTS and are subject to periodic examinations by the OTS and the FDIC. The investment and lending authority of savings institutions are prescribed by federal laws and regulations and these institutions are prohibited from engaging in any activities not permitted by the laws and regulations. This regulation and supervision primarily is intended for the protection of depositors and not for the purpose of protecting shareholders. The OTS regularly examines the Association and prepares reports for the consideration of the Association's Board of Directors on any deficiencies that it may find in the Association's operations. The FDIC also has the authority to examine the Association in its roles as the administrator of the SAIF. The Association's relationship with its depositors and borrowers also is regulated to a great extent by both federal and state laws, especially in matters such as the ownership of savings accounts and the form and content of the Association's mortgage requirements. Any change in these regulations, whether by the FDIC, the OTS or Congress, could have a material adverse impact on the Company, the Association and their operations. Federal Regulation of Savings Associations Office of Thrift Supervision The OTS is an office in the Department of the Treasury subject to the general oversight of the Secretary of the Treasury. Among other functions, the OTS issues and enforces regulations affecting the operations of federally insured savings associations and their holding companies, such as the Association and the Company. In connection with the OTS's authority, the Association is required to file periodic reports with the OTS and is subject to periodic examination by the OTS. 15 All savings associations regulated by the OTS are required to pay assessments to the OTS to fund the agency's operations. The general assessments, paid on a semi-annual basis, are determined based on the savings association's total assets, including consolidated subsidiaries. The Association's OTS assessment for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 was $407 thousand. Federal Home Loan Bank System The Association is a member of the FHLB of Atlanta, which is one of 12 regional FHLBs that administer the home financing credit function of savings institutions. Each FHLB serves as a reserve or central bank for its members within its assigned region. It is funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB System. It makes loans or advances to members in accordance with policies and procedures, established by the Board of Directors of the FHLB, which are subject to the oversight of the Federal Housing Finance Board. All advances from the FHLB are required to be fully secured by sufficient collateral as determined by the FHLB. As a member, the Association is required to purchase and maintain stock in the FHLB of Atlanta. At September 30, 2005, the Association had $25.2 million in FHLB of Atlanta stock, which was in compliance with this requirement. In past years, the Association has received substantial dividends on its FHLB stock. The average dividend yield for fiscal 2005 and 2004 was 3.89% and 3.48%, respectively. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation The FDIC is an independent federal agency established originally to insure the deposits, up to prescribed statutory limits, of federally insured banks and to preserve the safety and soundness of the banking industry. The FDIC maintains two separate insurance funds: the Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF") and the SAIF. The Association is a member of the SAIF. Deposits are insured up to the applicable limits by the FDIC and this insurance is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government. As insurer, the FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by FDIC-insured institutions. It also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the SAIF or the BIF. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against savings institutions, after giving the OTS an opportunity to take such action, and may terminate the deposit insurance if it determines that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or is in an unsafe or unsound condition. The FDIC's deposit insurance premiums are assessed through a risk-based system under which all insured depository institutions are placed into one of nine categories and assessed insurance premiums based upon their level of capital and supervisory evaluation. Under the system, an institution is classified as well capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a core capital ratio of at least 5% and Tier I capital ratio of at least 6%. An institution is less than adequately capitalized if it has a risk-based capital ratio of less than 8% or a core capital ratio of less than 4%. The risk classification of all insured institutions is completed by the FDIC for each semi-annual assessment period. The FDIC is authorized to increase assessment rates, on a semi-annual basis, if it determines that the reserve ratio of the SAIF will be less than the designated reserve ratio of 1.25% of SAIF insured deposits. In setting these increased assessments, the FDIC must seek to restore the reserve ratio to that designated reserve level, or such higher reserve ratio as established by the FDIC. The FDIC may also impose special assessments on SAIF members to repay amounts borrowed from the United States Treasury or for any other reason deemed necessary by the FDIC. Since January 1, 1997, the premium schedule for BIF and SAIF insured institutions ranged from 0 to 27 basis points. However, SAIF and BIF insured institutions are required to pay a Financing Corporation assessment in order to fund the interest on bonds issued to resolve thrift failures in the 1980s equal to approximately 1.50 points for each $100 in domestic deposits annually. These assessments, which may be revised based upon the level of BIF and SAIF deposits, will continue until the bonds mature. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC or the OTS. Management of the Association does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. 16 Prompt Corrective Action The OTS is required to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized savings institutions, the severity of which depends upon the institution's degree of undercapitalization. Generally, an institution that has a ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of less than 8%, a ratio of Tier I (core) capital to risk-weighted assets of less than 4%, or a ratio of core capital to total assets of less than 4% (3% or less for institutions with the highest examination rating) is considered to be "undercapitalized." An institution that has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 6%, a Tier I capital ratio of less than 3% or a leverage ratio that is less than 3% is considered to be "significantly undercapitalized" and an institution that has a tangible capital to assets ratio equal to or less than 2% is deemed to be "critically undercapitalized." Subject to a narrow exception, the OTS is required to app oint a receiver or conservator for a savings institution that is "critically undercapitalized." OTS regulations also require that a capital restoration plan be filed with the OTS within 45 days of the date a savings institution receives notice that it is "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" or "critically undercapitalized." Compliance with the plan must be guaranteed by any parent holding company in an amount of up to the lesser of 5% of the institution's assets or the amount which would bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards. In addition, numerous mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to an undercapitalized institution, including, but not limited to, increased monitoring by regulators and restrictions on growth, capital distributions and expansion. The OTS also could take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of seni or executive officers and directors. At September 30, 2005, the Association was categorized as "well capitalized" under the prompt corrective action regulations of the OTS. See Note 20 of the Notes of Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 herein for a summary of the regulatory capital requirements applicable to the Association. Standards for Safety and Soundness The federal banking regulatory agencies have prescribed, by regulation, standards for all insured depository institutions relating to: (i) internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; (ii) loan documentation; (iii) credit underwriting; (iv) interest rate risk exposure; (v) asset growth; (vi) asset quality; (vii) earnings; and (viii) compensation, fees and benefits ("Guidelines"). The Guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the OTS determines that the Association fails to meet any standard prescribed by the Guidelines, the OTS may require the Association to submit to it an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. OTS regulations establish deadlines for the submission and review of such safety and soundness compliance plans. Management is a ware of no conditions relating to these safety and soundness standards that would require submission of a plan of compliance. Qualified Thrift Lender Test The Qualified Thrift Lender ("QTL") test requires that a savings association maintain at least 65% of its total tangible assets in "qualified thrift investments" on a monthly average basis in nine out of each 12 month period on a rolling basis. As an alternative, the savings institution may maintain 60% of its assets in those assets specified in Section 7701(a)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code"). Under either test, such assets primarily consist of residential housing related loans and investments. At September 30, 2005, the Association was in compliance with the QTL test. Capital Requirements The OTS requires the Association to meet three capital standards: (1) a tangible capital ratio requirement of 1.5% of total assets, as adjusted under OTS regulations; (2) a leverage ratio requirement of 3% of core capital to adjusted total assets, if a savings association has been assigned the highest composite rating of 1 under the Uniform Financial Institutions Ratings System (the minimum leverage capital ratio for any depository institution that does not have a composite examination rating of 1 is 4%, unless a higher leverage capital ratio is warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profile of the depository institution) and is not anticipating or expecting significant growth and have well-diversified risks; and 17 (3) a risk-based capital ratio requirement of 8% of core and supplementary capital to total risk-weighted assets of which at least half must be core capital. In determining compliance with the risk-based capital requirement, a savings association must compute its risk-weighted assets by multiplying its assets and certain off-balance sheet items by risk-weights, which range from 0% for cash and obligations issued by the U.S. Government or its agencies to 100% for consumer and commercial loans, as assigned by the OTS capital regulation based on the risks that the OTS believes are inherent in the type of asset. The OTS is authorized to impose capital requirements in excess of these standards on individual associations on a case-by-case basis. The OTS and FDIC are authorized and, under certain circumstances required, to take certain actions against savings associations that fail to meet their capital requirements. The OTS is generally required to take action to restrict the activities of an "undercapitalized association" (generally defined to be one with less than either a 4% core capital ratio, a 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio or an 8% risk-based capital ratio). Any such association must submit a capital restoration plan and until such plan is approved by the OTS may not increase its assets, acquire another institution, establish a branch or engage in any new activities, and generally may not make capital distributions. The OTS is authorized to impose the additional restrictions that are applicable to significantly undercapitalized ass ociations. See Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 herein for the Association's capital position relative to its applicable regulatory capital requirements. Limitations on Capital Distributions OTS regulations require the Association to give the OTS 30 days advance notice of any proposed declaration of dividends, and the OTS has the authority under its supervisory powers to prohibit the payment of dividends. OTS regulations impose uniform limitations on the ability of all savings associations to engage in various distributions of capital such as dividends, stock repurchases and cash-out mergers. In addition, the regulation utilizes a three-tiered approach permitting various levels of distributions based primarily upon a savings association's capital level. The Association currently meets the criteria to be designated a Tier 1 association and, consequently, could at its option (after prior notice to, and no objection made by, the OTS) distribute up to 100% of its net income during the calendar year plus 50% of its surplus capital at the beginning of the calendar year less any distributions previously paid during the year. Privacy Standards On November 12, 1999, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 ("GLBA") was signed into law. The purpose of this legislation is to modernize the financial services industry by establishing a comprehensive framework to permit affiliations among commercial banks, insurance companies, securities firms and other financial service providers. The Association is subject to OTS regulations implementing the privacy protection provisions of the GLBA. These regulations require the Association to disclose its privacy policy, including identifying with whom it shares "non-public personal information," to customers at the time of establishing the customer relationship and annually thereafter. The regulations also require the Association to provide its customers with initial and annual notices that accurately reflect its privacy policies and practices. In addition, the Association is required to provide its customers with the ability to "opt-out" of having the Association share their non-public personal information with unaffiliated third parties before they can disclose such information, subject to certain exceptions. The Association is subject to regulatory guidelines establishing standards for safeguarding customer information. These regulations implement certain provisions of the GLBA. The guidelines describe the agencies' expectations for the creation, implementation and maintenance of an information security program, which would include administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The standards set forth in the guidelines are intended to insure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the 18 security or integrity of such records and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such records or information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Anti-Money Laundering and Customer Identification In response to the terrorist events of September 11, 2001, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the "USA Patriot Act") was signed into law on October 26, 2001. The USA Patriot Act gives the federal government new powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing, and broadened anti-money laundering requirements. The Bank Secrecy Act, Title III of the USA Patriot Act takes measures intended to encourage information sharing among bank regulatory agencies and law enforcement bodies. Further, certain provisions of Title III impose affirmative obligations on a broad range of financial institutions. Title III of the USA Patriot Act and the related OTS regulations impose the following requirements with respect to financial institutions: establishment of anti-money laundering programs; establishment of a program specifying procedures for obtaining identifying information from customers seeking to open new accounts, including verifying the identity of customers within a reasonable period of time; establishment of enhanced due diligence policies, procedures and controls designed to detect and report money laundering; prohibitions on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks and compliance with record keeping obligations with respect to correspondent accounts of foreign banks. Bank regulators are directed to consider a holding company's effectiveness in combating money laundering when ruling on Federal Reserve Act and Bank Merger Act applications. The Association's policies and procedures have been updated to reflect the requirements of the USA Patriot Act, which had a minimal impact on business and customers. Regulation of the Company General The Company is a unitary savings and loan company subject to regulatory oversight of the OTS. Accordingly, the Company is required to register and file reports with the OTS and is subject to regulation and examination by the OTS. In addition, the OTS has enforcement authority over the Company and its non-savings association subsidiaries, which also permits the OTS to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the subsidiary savings association. The Company is subject to certain restrictions under the Home Owners Loan Act ("HOLA") and the OTS regulations issued thereunder. Such restrictions generally concern, among others, acquisitions of other savings associations and savings and loan holding companies. Mergers and Acquisitions Federal law and OTS regulations issued thereunder generally prohibit a savings and loan holding company without prior OTS approval, from acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of any other savings institution or savings and loan holding company or controlling the assets thereof. They also prohibit, among other things, any director or officer of a savings and loan holding company, or any individual who owns or controls more than 25% of the voting shares of such holding company, from acquiring control of any savings institution not a subsidiary of such savings and loan holding company, unless the acquisition is approved by OTS. Activities Restrictions As a unitary savings and loan holding company, the Company generally is not subject to activity restrictions. The Company and its non-savings institution subsidiaries are subject to statutory and regulatory restrictions on their business activities specified by federal regulations, which include performing services and holding properties used by a savings institution subsidiary, activities authorized for savings and loan holding companies as of March 5, 1987, and non-banking activities permissible for bank holding companies pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 or authorized for financial holding companies pursuant to the GLBA. 19 If the Company acquires control of another savings institution as a separate subsidiary other than in a supervisory acquisition, it would become a multiple savings and loan holding company and the activities of the Association and any other subsidiaries (other than the Association or any other SAIF-insured savings institution) would generally become subject to additional restrictions. There generally are more restrictions on the activities of a multiple savings and loan holding company than on those of a unitary savings and loan holding company. If the Association fails the qualified thrift lender test, within one year the Company must register as, and will become subject to, the significant activity restrictions applicable to savings and loan holding companies (see Federal Regulation of Savings Associations - -- Qualified Thrift Lender Test -- for information regarding the Association's qualified thrift lender test). Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley Act") was signed into law on July 30, 2002 in response to public concerns regarding corporate accountability in connection with certain accounting scandals. The stated goals of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the securities laws. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally applies to all companies, both U.S. and non-U.S., that file or are required to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"). The Sarbanes-Oxley Act includes very specific additional disclosure requirements and new corporate governance rules, requires the SEC and securities exchanges to adopt extensive additional disclosure, corporate governance and related rules and mandates. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act represents significant federal involvement in matters traditionally left to state regulatory systems, such as the regulation of the accounting profession, and to state corporate law, such as the relationship between a board of directors and management and between a board of directors and its committees. Regulation of Insurance Activities The Company conducts insurance agency and brokerage activities through FSIns and Kimbrell and their subsidiaries. The Company's insurance entities are required to be licensed by or to have received approvals from the insurance department of the states in which they operate. Licensing requirements also generally apply to the individual employees of these entities who engage in agency and brokerage activities. The Company's insurance operations depend on the good standing under the licenses and approvals pursuant to which the insurance entities operate. Licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Generally, the insurance regulatory authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion as to the granting, renewing and revoking of licenses and approvals. OTHER INFORMATION The Company makes available, free of charge through its website (www.firstfinancialholdings.com), the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the executive officers of the Company and the Association. The individuals listed below are executive officers of the Company and the Association, as indicated. Name Age1 Position A. Thomas Hood 59 President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and President and Chief Executive Officer of First Federal Susan E. Baham 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and First Federal 20 Name Age1 Position John L. Ott, Jr. 57 Executive Vice President of the Company and Executive Vice President/Retail Banking Division of First Federal Charles F. Baarcke, Jr. 58 Executive Vice President of the Company and Executive Vice President/Lending Division of First Federal Clarence A. Elmore, Jr. 45 Senior Vice President of the Northern Region of First Federal 1 At September 30, 2005. The following is a description of the principal occupation and employment of the executive officers of the Company and the Association during at least the past five years. A. Thomas Hood has been the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since July 1, 1996. Mr. Hood had served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from February 1, 1995 through June 30, 1996. Mr. Hood served as Treasurer of the Company and its Chief Financial Officer from 1984 until 1996. Mr. Hood was named President and Chief Executive Officer of First Federal effective February 1, 1995. Prior to that time, he had been Executive Vice President and Treasurer of First Federal since 1984. As President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and of First Federal, Mr. Hood is responsible for the daily business operations of the Company and of First Federal under policies and procedures established by the Board of Directors. Mr. Hood joined First Federal in 1975. Susan E. Baham became the Executive Vice President in January 2004 and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and of First Federal on July 1, 1996. Previously, Mrs. Baham served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since 1988 and as Vice President of Finance of First Federal since 1984. Mrs. Baham is responsible for First Financial's treasury, finance, accounting and investor relations functions. John L. Ott, Jr. is the Executive Vice President of the Company and First Federal and is responsible for directing and coordinating all retail banking operations, special savings and retirement programs and the sale of non-deposit investment products. He joined First Federal in 1971 and prior to becoming Executive Vice President of Retail Banking in January 2004, he was the Senior Vice President for Retail Banking. Charles F. Baarcke, Jr. is the Executive Vice President of the Company and First Federal. He is responsible for all lending operations, loan servicing and sales. He joined First Federal in 1975 and prior to becoming Executive Vice President for Lending Operations in January 2004, he was the Senior Vice President of Lending Operations. Clarence A. Elmore, Jr. became the Senior Vice President of the Northern Region of First Federal upon the merger of Peoples Federal into First Federal effective August 30, 2002. Previously, Mr. Elmore served as Senior Vice President and Chief Lending Officer of Peoples Federal. Mr. Elmore joined Peoples Federal in July 2001. Mr. Elmore is the principal executive responsible for the Northern Region of First Federal, which includes Horry, Georgetown and Florence Counties in South Carolina and Brunswick County in North Carolina. Pursuant to the Company's Bylaws, executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors on an annual basis. 