Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a degree of risk. You should carefully consider the material risk factors listed below and all other information contained in this Report before investing in our common stock. You should also keep these risk factors in mind when you read the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, our quarterly and annual operating results or our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline or become substantially volatile, and you could lose some or all of your investment. We are dependent on payments from Medicare and Medicaid. Changes in the rates or methods governing these payments for our services could adversely affect our net patient revenue and profitability. Approximately 96% of our net patient revenue for the year ended September 30, 2007 consisted of payments from Medicare and Medicaid programs. Because we generally receive fixed payments for our hospice care services 17 Table of Contents based on the level of care provided to our hospice patients, we are at risk for the cost of services provided to our hospice patients. We cannot assure you that Medicare and Medicaid will continue to pay for hospice care in the same manner or in the same amount that they currently pay. Reductions in amounts paid by government programs for our services or changes in methods or regulations governing payments, which would likely result in similar changes by private third-party payors, could adversely affect our net patient revenue and profitability. Our profitability may be adversely affected by limitations on Medicare payments. Overall Medicare payments to our hospice providers are subject to an annual Medicare Cap amount, which for the twelve months ended October 31, 2007 was $21,410.04 per beneficiary. Compliance with the Medicare Cap is measured by calculating the annual Medicare payments received under a Medicare provider number with respect to services provided to all Medicare hospice care beneficiaries in the program or programs covered by that provider number during the Medicare regulation year and comparing the result with the product of the annual Medicare Cap amount and the number of Medicare beneficiaries electing hospice care for the first time from that program or programs during that year. There is a further negative adjustment for the Medicare Cap calculation to the extent our first time beneficiaries are later admitted to another provider and also a positive adjustment for a beneficiary with a previous hospice election admitted to one of our providers, each pro-rated based on days of service. We reflected a reduction to net patient revenue of approximately $5.3 million and $6.8 million in the years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a result of estimated reimbursements in excess of the annual Medicare Cap in those and previous periods. Our ability to comply with this limitation depends on a number of factors relating to the hospice program or programs under a given Medicare provider number, including the rate at which our patient census increases, the average length of stay and the mix in level of care. Provider groups having patient stays averaging over 180 days are most likely to generate Medicare Cap exposure. Our comprehensive care philosophy tends to increase the average length of our patients’ stay, which increases our Medicare Cap exposure. We cannot ensure that our hospice programs will not exceed the Medicare Cap amount in the future or that our estimate of the Medicare Cap contractual adjustment will not differ from the actual Medicare Cap amount. Our profitability may be adversely affected if, in the future, we are unable to comply with this and other Medicare payment limitations. Our net patient revenue and profitability may be constrained by cost containment initiatives undertaken by payors. Initiatives undertaken by private insurers, managed care companies and federal and state governments to contain healthcare costs may affect the profitability of our hospice programs. We have a number of contractual arrangements with private insurers and managed care companies to provide hospice care for a fixed fee. These payors often attempt to control healthcare costs by contracting with hospices and other healthcare providers to obtain services on a discounted basis. We believe that this trend may continue and may limit payments for healthcare services, including hospice services, in the future. In addition, there may be changes made to the Medicare program’s Medicare HMO component, which could result in managed care companies becoming financially responsible for providing hospice care. Currently, Medicare pays for hospice services outside of the Medicare HMO per-member per-month fee so that managed care companies do not absorb the cost of providing these services. If such changes were to occur, a greater percentage of our net patient revenue could come from managed care companies and these companies would be further incentivized to reduce hospice costs. As managed care companies attempt to control hospice-related costs, they could reduce payments to us for hospice services. In addition, states, many of which are operating under significant budgetary pressures, may seek to reduce hospice payments under their Medicaid programs or Medicaid managed care programs may opt not to continue providing hospice coverage. These developments could negatively impact our net patient revenue and profitability. If our expenses were to increase more rapidly than the fixed payment adjustments we receive from Medicare and Medicaid for our hospice services, our profitability could be negatively impacted. We generally receive fixed payments for our hospice services based on the level of care that we provide to patients and their families. Accordingly, our profitability is largely dependent on our ability to manage expenses of providing hospice services and to maintain a patient base with a sufficiently long length of stay to attain 18 Table of Contents profitability. We are susceptible to situations, particularly because of our “comprehensive care” philosophy, where we may be referred a disproportionate share of patients requiring more intensive care and therefore more expensive care than other providers. Although Medicare and Medicaid currently provide for an annual adjustment of the various hospice payment rates based on inflation and other economic factors, these hospice care increases have usually been less than actual inflation. If these annual adjustments were eliminated or reduced, or if our expenses of providing hospice services, over one-half of which consist of labor expenses, increase more than the annual adjustment, our profitability could be negatively impacted. In addition, cost pressures resulting from shorter patient lengths of stay and the use of more expensive forms of palliative care, including drugs and drug delivery systems, could negatively impact our profitability. We may be adversely affected by governmental decisions regarding our nursing home patients. For our patients receiving nursing home care under certain state Medicaid programs, the applicable Medicaid program pays us an amount equal to no more than 95% of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate for “room and board” services furnished to the patient by the nursing home in addition to the applicable Medicare or Medicaid hospice per diem payment. We in turn, are generally obligated to pay the nursing home for these room and board services at a rate between 95% and 100% of the full Medicaid per diem nursing home rate. In the past, we have experienced situations where both the Medicaid program and VistaCare have paid a nursing home for the same room and board service and the Medicaid program has imposed on us the burden and cost of recovering the amount we previously paid to the nursing home. There can be no assurance that these situations will not recur in the future or that, if they do, we will be able to fully recover from the nursing home. In addition, many of our patients residing in nursing homes are eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid benefits. In these cases, the patient’s state Medicaid program pays their nursing home room and board charges and Medicare pays their hospice services benefit. In the past, the government has questioned whether the reimbursement levels for these dual-eligible hospice patients as well as for Medicare-only patients living in nursing homes may be excessive. Specifically, the government has expressed concerns that hospice programs may provide fewer services to patients who reside in nursing homes than to patients living in other settings, due to the presence of the nursing home’s own staff to address problems that might otherwise be handled by hospice personnel. Since hospice programs are paid a fixed daily amount, regardless of the volume or duration of services provided, the government is concerned that by shifting the responsibility and cost for certain patient care or counseling services to the nursing home, hospice programs may inappropriately increase their profitability. In the case of these dual-eligible patients, the government’s concern is that the cost of providing both the room and board and hospice services may be significantly less than the combined reimbursement paid to the nursing homes and hospice programs as a result of the overlap in services. From time to time, there have been legislative proposals to reduce or eliminate Medicare reimbursement for hospice patients residing in nursing homes and to require nursing homes to provide end-of-life care, or alternatively to reduce or eliminate the Medicaid reimbursement of room and board services provided to hospice patients. The likelihood of this type of change may be greater when the federal and state governments experience budgetary shortfalls. If any such proposal were adopted, it could significantly affect our ability to obtain referrals from and continue to serve patients residing in nursing homes. Medical reviews and audits by governmental and private payors could result in material reimbursement delays, payment recoupments and payment denials, which could negatively impact our business. Medicare fiscal intermediaries and other payors periodically conduct pre-payment or post-payment medical reviews or other audits of our reimbursement claims. In order to conduct these reviews, the payor requests documentation from us and then reviews that documentation to determine compliance with applicable rules and regulations, including the eligibility of patients to receive hospice benefits, the appropriateness of the care provided to those patients, and the documentation of that care. We cannot predict whether medical reviews or similar audits by federal or state agencies or commercial payors of our hospice programs’ reimbursement claims will result in 19 Table of Contents material recoupments or denials, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services has implemented a process known as sequential billing that prevents hospice programs from billing a period of service for a patient before the prior billed period has been reimbursed. This billing process delays our receipt of payment for services delivered to patients, and can negatively impact a hospice program’s cash flow when pre-payment audits or medical reviews are ongoing, or lost or incorrect bills are encountered. We have experienced significant decreases in cash flow caused by the delay in claims payments related to these billing audits. We have a limited history of profitability and may incur substantial net losses in the future. We recorded a net loss of $7.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2007, and a net loss of $11.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2006 and we had an accumulated deficit of $39.9 million at September 30, 2007. We cannot assure you that we will operate profitably in the future. In addition, we may experience significant quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results. We are in the process of implementing restructuring initiatives and cannot guarantee that the anticipated cost savings will be achieved. Any program growth that may occur in the future will involve, among other things, increased marketing expenses, significant cash expenditures and could potentially require debt incurrence that could potentially negatively impact our profitability on a quarterly and an annual basis. In addition, our profitability could be adversely impacted by the impairment of long-term assets such as goodwill. If we are unable to attract qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals at reasonable costs, it could limit our ability to grow, increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our business. We rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the Medicare certification requirements and the requirements of the hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare facilities with which we work. We compete for qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals with hospitals, nursing homes, other hospices and other healthcare organizations. Currently, there is a shortage of qualified nurses in most areas of the United States. Competition for nursing personnel is increasing, and nurses’ salaries and benefits have risen. Our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide attractive assignments and competitive benefits and wages. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of these areas. Because we operate in a fixed reimbursement environment, increases in the wages and benefits that we must provide to attract and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals or increases in our reliance on contract nurses or temporary healthcare professionals could negatively affect our profitability. We may be unable to continue to increase the number of qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals that we recruit, decreasing the potential for growth of our business. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals, we may have to limit the number of patients for whom we can provide hospice care in order to maintain the quality of our hospice services. We may not be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of volunteers to grow our business or maintain our Medicare certification. Medicare requires certified hospice programs to recruit and train volunteers to provide patient care services or administrative services. Volunteer services must be provided in an amount equal to at least five percent of the total patient care hours provided by all paid hospice employees and contract staff of a hospice program. If we are unable to attract and retain volunteers, it could limit our potential for growth and our hospice programs could lose their Medicare certifications, which would make those hospice programs ineligible for Medicare reimbursement. If we fail to cultivate new or maintain established relationships with patient referral sources, our net patient revenue may decline. Our success is heavily dependent on referrals from physicians, nursing homes, assisted living communities, hospitals, managed care companies, insurance companies and other patient referral sources in the communities that 20 Table of Contents our hospice programs serve. Since we and many of our referral sources are dependent upon Medicare, we are limited in our ability to engage in business practices that are commonplace among referring businesses in other industries such as referral fees, or bonuses and long-term exclusive contracts. Our growth and profitability depends significantly on our ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of hospice care by our referral sources and their patients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing referral source relationships or that we will be able to develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. Our loss of existing relationships or our failure to develop new relationships could adversely affect our ability to maintain or expand our operations and operate profitably. Moreover, we cannot assure you that awareness or acceptance of hospice care will increase. We may not be able to grow our programs, which could adversely impact our profitability. Our primary growth focus is organic program growth. To achieve this growth, we intend to increase our marketing efforts and other expenditures. If our resources are not deployed effectively and we do not achieve the organic program growth we seek, it could adversely impact our profitability. We also may develop new hospice programs. When we develop new hospice programs, we first engage a small staff and obtain office space, contracts and referral sources, while obtaining state licensure and Medicare certification. Following Medicare certification, we spend significant management and financial resources in an effort to increase patient census of that program. This aspect of our growth may not be successful, which could adversely impact our growth and profitability. In this regard, we cannot assure you that we will be able to: • identify markets or areas that meet our selection criteria for new hospice programs; • hire and retain a qualified management team to operate any of our new hospice programs; • manage a large and geographically diverse group of hospice programs; • become Medicare and Medicaid certified and licensed in new markets in a timely and cost effective manner; • generate sufficient hospice admissions in new markets to operate profitably in these new markets; and • compete effectively with existing hospice programs in new markets. Competition for acquisition opportunities may restrict our future growth by limiting our ability to make acquisitions at reasonable valuations. In selected situations we may increase our market share and presence in the hospice care industry through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. We have historically faced competition for acquisitions. In the future, this could limit our ability to grow by acquisitions or could raise the prices of potential acquisition targets and make them less attractive to us. Our ability to grow through acquisitions may be limited by increasing government oversight and review of sales of not-for-profit healthcare providers. According to the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization, approximately 49% of hospice programs in the United States in 2006 were not-for-profit programs. Accordingly, it is likely that a substantial number of acquisition opportunities will involve hospice programs operated by not-for-profit entities. In recent years, several states have increased review and oversight of transactions involving the sale of healthcare facilities by not-for-profit entities. Although the level of oversight varies from state to state, the current trend is to provide for increased governmental review, and in some cases, approval of transactions in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility or business to a for profit entity. This increased scrutiny may increase the difficulty of completing or prevent the completion of acquisitions in some states in the future. 21 Table of Contents As with our past acquisitions, we may face difficulties integrating businesses that we may acquire in the future. Our efforts to acquire other businesses may be unsuccessful, involve significant cash expenditures or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. Our 1998 acquisitions, which were closed nearly simultaneously, increased our patient census approximately five-fold and presented significant integration difficulties. Due to the size and complexity of these transactions, immediately following the transactions, our resources available for integration efforts were limited. In time, as we were able to focus on the integration of the acquired businesses, we spent substantial resources on projects such as: • implementing consistent billing and payroll systems across a large number of new programs; • instituting standard procedures for ordering pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and supplies; and • re-training staff from the acquired businesses to complete our standard claim documentation properly and to conform to our service philosophy and internal compliance procedures; Our future acquisitions could require that we spend significant resources on some of the same types of projects. In addition, our future acquisitions could present other challenges such as: • potential loss of key employees or referral sources of acquired businesses; • potential difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approvals; and • assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, including liabilities for their failure to comply with healthcare regulations. Our future acquisitions may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence and integration expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. If any of our hospice programs fail to comply with the Medicare conditions of participation, that hospice program could lose its Medicare certification, thereby adversely affecting our net patient revenue and profitability. Each of our hospice programs must comply with the extensive conditions of participation to remain certified under Medicare guidelines. If any of our hospice programs fail to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that hospice program may receive a notice of deficiency from a state surveyor designated by Medicare to measure the hospice program’s level of compliance. The notice may require the hospice program to prepare a plan of correction and undertake other steps to ensure future compliance with the conditions of participation. If a hospice program fails to correct the deficiency or develop an adequate plan of correction, the hospice program may be required to suspend admissions or may have its Medicare or Medicaid provider agreement terminated. We cannot assure you that we will not lose our Medicare certification at one or more of our other hospice programs in the future. Any such loss could adversely affect our net patient revenue and profitability as well as our reputation within the hospice care industry. We may not be able to compete successfully against other hospice care providers, and competitive pressures may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market position and adversely affect our profitability. Hospice care in the United States is competitive. In many areas in which we maintain hospice programs, we compete with a large number of organizations, including: • community-based hospice providers; • national and regional companies; • hospital-based hospice and palliative care programs; • nursing homes; and • home health agencies. 22 Table of Contents Our largest competitors include Vitas Healthcare Corporation (a subsidiary of Chemed Corporation), Odyssey Healthcare, Inc., Manor Care, Inc. and Beverly Enterprises, Inc. Some of our current and potential competitors have or may obtain significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we have or may obtain. Various healthcare companies have diversified into the hospice market. We may encounter increased competition in the future that could negatively impact patient referrals to us, limit our ability to maintain or increase our market position and adversely affect our profitability. A significant reduction in the carrying value of our goodwill could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. A substantial portion of our total assets consists of intangible assets, primarily goodwill. Goodwill, net of accumulated amortization, accounted for approximately 21% of our total assets as of September 30, 2007. Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. As a result, we no longer amortize goodwill and long-lived intangible assets. Instead, we review them at least annually to determine whether they have become impaired. If they have become impaired, we charge the impairment as an expense in the period in which the impairment occurred. Any event, which results in the significant impairment of our goodwill, such as closure of a hospice program or sustained operating losses, could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems to efficiently manage our business. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations maintain patient information, perform billing and accounts receivable functions, process payments, as well as retain other financial and operational data. Our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be performed manually, which could impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and clinical records reliably, to pay our staff in a timely fashion and to bill for services efficiently. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to a new software system, which may result in delays and errors in billing for our services. We are considering upgrading our internally developed patient tracking, billing and accounts receivable system with an enterprise software package which will help align our Company for future growth. Every new system implementation comes with inherent risk factors. Our ability to track patient data is critical to providing high quality patient care. Accurate billing is crucial to reimbursement from third-party payors. If any unforeseen problems emerge in connection with our migration to the new billing software, billing delays and errors may occur, which could significantly increase the time it takes for us to collect payments from payors and in some cases our ability to collect the payments at all. Any such increase in collection time or inability to collect could have a materially adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. We operate in a regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased expenses or sanctions that could reduce our revenues and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations related to professional licensure, conduct of operations, payment for services and payment for referrals. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations that are directly applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties, be subject to injunctions or cease and desist orders or become ineligible to receive government program payments. In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have introduced an increasing number of proposals to make significant changes in the United States healthcare system. Changes in law and regulatory interpretations could reduce our net patient revenue and profitability. Recently, there have been heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry. 23 Table of Contents There has also been an increase in the filing of actions by private individuals on behalf of the federal government against healthcare companies alleging the filing of false or fraudulent healthcare claims. This heightened enforcement activity increases our potential exposure to damaging lawsuits, investigations and other enforcement actions. Any such action could distract our management and adversely affect our business reputation and profitability. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of laws, rules and regulations governing the healthcare industry could subject our current business practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our operations and personnel and distract our management. If we fail to comply with these extensive laws and government regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program payments, suffer civil and criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. Many states have certificate of need laws or other regulatory provisions that may adversely impact our ability to expand into new markets and thereby limit our ability to grow and increase our net patient revenue. Many states have enacted certificate of need laws that require prior state approval to open new healthcare facilities or expand services at existing facilities. Currently, some states have certificate of need laws that apply to hospice programs. Those laws require some form of state agency review or approval before a hospice may add new services or undertake significant capital expenditures. New York places restrictions on the corporate ownership of hospices. Accordingly, our ability to operate in New York and the states with certificate of need laws is restricted. The laws in these states could affect our ability to expand into new markets and to expand our services and facilities into existing markets. Professional and general liability claims may have an adverse effect on us either because our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover the losses or because claims against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may adversely affect our reputation, our ability to obtain patient referrals or our ability to expand our business. In recent years, participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits, including allegations of medical malpractice. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. We are covered by a general liability insurance policy on an occurrence basis with limits of $1.0 million per occurrence and $3.0 million in the aggregate. We are also covered by a healthcare professional liability insurance policy on a claims-made basis with limits of $1.0 million for each medical incident and $3.0 million in the aggregate. We maintain workers compensation coverage at the statutory limits and an employer’s liability policy with a $1.0 million limit, both with a $250,000 deductible per occurrence. We also maintain a policy insuring hired and non-owned automobiles with a $1.0 million limit of liability and a $1.0 million deductible. In addition, we maintain umbrella coverage with a limit of $10.0 million excess over the general, professional, hired and non-owned automobile and employer’s liability policies. Nevertheless, some risks and liabilities, including claims for punitive damages or claims based on the actions of third parties, may not be covered by insurance. In addition, we cannot assure you that our coverage will be adequate to cover potential losses. While we have generally been able to obtain liability insurance in the past, insurance can be expensive and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Moreover, claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also adversely affect our reputation, our ability to obtain patient referrals or our ability to expand our business, as well as divert management resources from the operation of our business. Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward- 24 Table of Contents looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate and management’s beliefs and assumptions. In addition, other written or oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements may be made by or on our behalf. Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “expectations,” “forecast,” “goal,” “hope” and similar variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We have included important factors that may affect these forward-looking statements above under the heading “Risk Factors” and we believe these factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We do not intend to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 