Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a degree of risk. You should carefully consider the material risk factors listed below and all other information contained in this Report before investing in our common stock. You should also keep these risk factors in mind when you read the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, our quarterly and annual operating results or our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline or become substantially volatile, and you could lose some or all of your investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Forward-Looking Statements This quarterly report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate and management’s beliefs and assumptions. In addition, other written or oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements may be made by or on our behalf. Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “expectations,” “forecast,” “goal,” “hope” and similar variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements below under the heading “Factors That May Affect Future Results” that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We do not 24 Table of Contents intend to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 