Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the local economies on which we depend or by natural disasters occurring in our market area that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued into 2008. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: · A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; · A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale; 26 · An increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; or · An increase in the number of our customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. Downturns in the real estate markets in our primary market area could adversely impact our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated in our local market areas of Charleston, Dorchester, Berkeley, Georgetown, Horry, Florence and Beaufort counties in South Carolina and Brunswick County in North Carolina. Our residential loan portfolio, and our commercial real estate and multi-family loan portfolio and a certain number of our other loans have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that further declines in the real estate markets in our primary market area will hurt our business. As of September 30, 2008, substantially all of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate located in South Carolina and North Carolina. If real estate values continue to decline the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums may increase materially. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including First Federal. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. In October 2008, the FDIC issued a proposed rule that would increase premiums paid by insured institutions and make other changes to the assessment system. Increases in deposit insurance premiums could adversely affect our net income. Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits at First Federal. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from First Federal in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at First Federal is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Changes in interest rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations. Like other financial institutions, our earnings are significantly dependent on our net interest income. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” would work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. 27 For example, in the event of a decrease in interest rates, our net interest income will be positively affected because our interest-bearing liabilities currently reprice faster than our interest-bearing assets. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control our risk from changes in market interest rates, we may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or result in our lenders requiring additional collateral from us under our loan agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are less favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. For further information on our interest rate risks, see the discussion included in “Asset and Liability Management” below. Decreases in interest rates may adversely affect the value of our servicing asset. Decreases in interest rates lead to increases in the prepayment of mortgages by borrowers, which may reduce the value of our servicing asset. The servicing asset is the estimated present value of the fees we expect to receive on mortgages we service over their expected term. If prepayments increase above expected levels, the value of the servicing asset decreases because the amount of future fees expected to be received by us decreases. We may be required to recognize this decrease in value by taking a charge against our earnings, which would cause our profits to decrease. We have experienced an increase in prepayments of mortgages at times in the past as interest rates have decreased dramatically, which has impacted the value of our servicing asset. We believe, based on historical experience, that the amount of prepayments and related charges should decrease if interest rates increase. We are subject to risks in servicing loans for others. We are also affected by mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults on mortgage loans that we service for third parties. Under certain types of servicing contracts, we, as servicer, must forward all or part of the scheduled payments to the owner of the mortgage loan, even when mortgage loans usually require us, as servicer, to advance mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments on schedule even though sufficient escrow funds may not be available. We will generally recover our advances from the mortgage owner or from liquidation proceeds when the mortgage loan is foreclosed upon. However, in the interim, we must absorb the cost of funds advanced during the time the advance is outstanding. We must also bear the increased costs of attempting to collect on delinquent and defaulted mortgage loans, but these costs can be offset by the collection of late fees which are retained by the servicer. In addition, if a default is not cured, the mortgage loan will be repaid as a result of foreclosure proceedings. As a consequence, we are required to forego servicing income from the time the loan becomes delinquent, and into the future. The fiscal and monetary policy of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. They also can materially decrease the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and Mortgage Servicing Rights. Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. 28 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. Like all financial institutions, every loan we make carries a risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any collateral securing it will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · Cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · In the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · The credit history of a particular borrower; · Changes in economic and industry conditions; and · The duration of the loan. Regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict these losses or whether our allowance will be adequate or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability. We may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. We are exposed to credit risk in our lending activities. There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. Loans to individuals and business entities, our single largest asset group, depend for repayment on the willingness and ability of borrowers to perform as contracted. A material adverse change in the ability of a significant portion of our borrowers to meet their obligation to us, due to changes in economic conditions, interest rates, natural disaster, acts of war, or other causes over which we have no control, could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans, and could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. Large scale natural disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. The ultimate impact of a natural disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of the business infrastructure such as internet connections and network access. Any disruption in internet, network access or other voice or data communication services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect the ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect the business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in the business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. 29 Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer, very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. 30 Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Related to the U.S. Financial Industry There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies will help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: · Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; · Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; · Temporary increase in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and · Authority to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion (of which $250 billion is currently available) of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Shortly following the enactment of EESA, the Treasury created a capital purchase program, pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier I capital. EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate, including two 50 basis point decreases in October of 2008; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an “ownership change” to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make significantly more attractive the acquisition of financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. 31 On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions are automatically covered by this program for the period commencing October 14, 2008 and will continue to be covered as long as they do not opt out of the program by December 5, 2008. Under the program, the FDIC will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding). The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. First Federal will participate in the transaction account guarantee program and has opted out of the debt guarantee program. The actual impact that EESA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Finally, there can be no assurance regarding the specific impact that such measures may have on us—or whether (or to what extent) we will be able to benefit from such programs. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and securities and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as our Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. · Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. · Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. 32 · We may be required to pay significantly higher deposit insurance premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital may be adversely affected which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue and profit margins. We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. This regulation is to protect depositors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. Company Risks Acquisitions may disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. We expect to continue to grow by acquiring insurance agencies or assets of insurance agencies, other financial institutions, related businesses or branches of other financial institutions that we believe provide a strategic fit with our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we may not be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other insurance agencies or assets of insurance agencies, banks, businesses or branches involves risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: · Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of insurance agencies or assets of insurance agencies, financial institutions, businesses or branches we acquire; · Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired insurance agencies or assets of insurance agencies, financial institutions, businesses or branches; · Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of insurance agencies or assets of insurance agencies, financial institutions, businesses or branches we acquire; · Potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; · The possible loss of key employees and customers of the insurance agencies or assets of insurance agencies, financial institutions, businesses, or branches we acquire; · Difficulty in estimating the value of the insurance agencies or assets of insurance agencies, financial institutions, businesses or branches to be acquired; and · Potential changes in banking, insurance or tax laws or regulations that may affect the insurance agencies, financial institutions or businesses to be acquired. Loss of key personnel may hurt our operations. We are dependent on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of our president and chief executive officer and other senior officers, because of death or other reasons, could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. As a result, the Board of Directors may have to search outside of our business structure for qualified permanent replacements. This search may be prolonged and we cannot assure you that we would be able to locate and hire qualified replacements. We do not have any plans to obtain a “key man” life insurance policy for any of our officers, or other employees. 33 Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. We have established control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty of estimates about these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: · Variations in our quarterly operating results; · Changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; · Fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; · Issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; · The addition or departure of key personnel; · Seasonal fluctuations; · Changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding First Financial or shares of our common stock; and · Announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by First Financial in reports we file or submit under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistakes. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 34 We rely on dividends from subsidiaries for most of our revenue. First Financial is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that First Federal or other subsidiaries may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event First Federal is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from First Federal could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Changes in accounting standards may affect our reported performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 