ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks, including those described below, which could affect the value of your investment in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described in this section, as well as any cautionary language in this report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our operating results and financial condition. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 10 A large portion of our loan portfolio is secured by residential and commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in residential and commercial real estate values could lead to additional losses, which may cause our net income to decline and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial condition and results of operations. At September 30, 2010, $2.1 billion or 80.9% of our loan portfolio was secured by residential and commercial real estate properties. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations. The decline in residential and commercial real estate values due to the downturn in the housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these loans and has increased the risk that we will incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. We originate commercial real estate loans, including multi-family real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans and, if non-owner occupied, repayment may be dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial real estate loans may expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential mortgages because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. If we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral may be longer than for a residential mortgage loan because there may be fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As of September 30, 2010, our commercial real estate loans totaled $598.5 million or 23.3% of our loan portfolio and approximately 40% of these loans are owner-occupied. Construction, and land loans totaled $242.6 million or 9.5% of our loan portfolio at September 30, 2010. Land loans include raw land, residential lot financing primarily for individuals, land acquisition and development loans and loans secured by land used for business purposes. Construction and land development loans are based on estimates of costs and value associated with the completed projects. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to accurately evaluate the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts and repayment is substantially dependent on the success of the finished project as well as the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing. Residential loans with high LTV ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined LTV ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. On occasion, there have been residential mortgages originated under specific lending programs that allow borrowers to obtain up to 100% of the appraised value and finance closing costs, resulting in an LTV at origination of 100% or greater. At September 30, 2010, we had $83.3 million of residential mortgage loans originated with LTVs 100% or greater. We generally require private mortgage insurance in order to reduce our exposure on loans with LTVs greater than 80% at origination. Our exposure is also reduced for loans guaranteed under Veterans Administration or Federal Housing Administration programs. Loans which were not guaranteed and that did not have private mortgage insurance totaled $45.9 million at September 30, 2010. At September 30, 2010, $397.6 million or 15.5% of our loan portfolio, consisted of home equity loans, and the risks associated with these loans, including the risk of higher rates of delinquency and defaults, will continue to increase if housing prices continue to decline and may result in borrowers currently having little or no equity remaining due to declining valuations. In addition, as of September 30, 2010, manufactured housing loans totaled $269.9 million or 10.5% of our loan portfolio. Manufactured housing lending involves additional risks as a result of higher LTVs usually associated with these types of loans. The values of manufactured homes decline over time and higher levels of inventories of repossessed and used manufactured homes may affect the values of collateral and result in higher charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Repayment of our commercial loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our commercial business loans are originated primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on general liquidity and cash flow support from the borrower or guarantor. The borrowers’ cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use and business assets may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise, and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. 11 Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Additions to the allowance for loan losses may be required by increasing our provision for loan losses, which would cause our net income to decline and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial positions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; and · our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of impaired loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Due to the current weakness in the economy, we are experiencing higher levels of delinquent loans and nonperforming assets. The increase in delinquent loans, nonperforming assets, and credit losses generally reflects the operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the local economy and high unemployment rates. More recently, the deterioration in the general economy, collateral values (in particular in the coastal areas of our markets) and individual borrower and guarantor financial positions has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of delinquent loans and nonperforming assets. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in nonperforming residential mortgage loans. Lack of demand for development projects contributed to the increase in nonperforming residential and commercial land loans, which was 36.1% of total nonperforming loans at September 30, 2010. If current trends in unemployment, housing and real estate market declines, and weaknesses in the economy continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquent loans, nonperforming assets, and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to record a significant provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If real estate values continue to decline, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. In order to appropriately monitor the risk in our loan portfolio, we conduct regular loan reviews. In addition to renewal reviews, we have a monthly problem loan review process which covers all commercial loans greater than $200,000 that are past due more than 30 days, and all criticized and classified loans greater than $500,000. Action plans to address the credit problems are presented, approved and monitored. To assist us in our loan monitoring process, we have engaged an independent firm to perform quarterly loan reviews and evaluate our risk rating systems and valuations. See “Item 7. – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Asset Quality” and “– Allowance for Loan Losses” for additional information on our credit risk processes. The higher levels of delinquent and nonperforming loans and charge-offs for the past two fiscal years resulted in an increase in our provision for loan losses. For fiscal 2010, the provision was $125.2 million, as compared with $66.9 million for fiscal 2009 and $16.9 million for fiscal 2008. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we will be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans, which could further adversely affect our results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will not sustain credit losses requiring additions to the provision for loan losses in excess of present levels The current economic conditions in the nation and in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolios. A further deterioration in economic conditions nationally or in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: · loan delinquencies, nonperforming assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · collateral for loans may further decline in value, which may reduce customers’ borrowing power for new loans and reduce the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and · the amount of our noninterest bearing or low-cost deposits may decrease. 12 While we attempt to manage the risk from changes in market interest rates, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact and a rapid or substantial increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and results of operations. Our net income depends primarily on our net interest income, which is the difference between income from interest-earning assets, such as loans we make and investments we own, and interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of noninterest-bearing deposits and equity. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. We continually review our interest rate risk position and modify our strategies based on projections to minimize the impact of future interest rate changes. We also use derivative instruments to modify our exposure to changes in interest rates. Nonetheless, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our mortgage banking operations provide a portion of our noninterest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of residential mortgage loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Federal National Mortgage Association, Government National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation FHLMC and retain the servicing of sold loans. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors, which would decrease mortgage revenues in noninterest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of noninterest expenses associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, other loan expense, and other costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. We are highly dependent on key members of our senior management team, which has changed significantly during the past year, and there is risk that we will not be able to develop a cohesive and unified management team. We are highly dependent on the continued efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key management personnel. We currently are being led by new senior management, who individually have considerable experience in the financial services industry, but have worked together as a team for less than one year. Specifically, our President and Chief Executive Officer was appointed to that position in May 2010. He had previously served as our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer since joining First Financial in December 2006. Our Chief Financial Officer was appointed to that position in May 2010. She had previously served as our Chief Accounting Officer since she joined First Financial in January 2010. Many of our other senior management team members have been with us for less than a year. Any additional changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Executive Officers” in First Financial’s definitive proxy statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders for additional information on the senior management team. Further economic downturns may adversely affect our investment securities portfolio and profitability. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, we recognized $2.9 million in other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) charges associated with our investment securities portfolio. These OTTI charges were determined based on anticipated adverse changes to the projected cash flows for each of the underlying securities caused by, among other things constant default rates, severity of losses, geographic property value reductions, projected collateral losses, a change in historical prepayment speeds, and a deterioration in the current level of subordination. We closely monitor these and our other investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities and the determination of any OTTI with respect to such securities is highly complex and involves a comprehensive process, including quantitative modeling and significant judgment. The valuation of our investment securities will also continue to be influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of SEC and and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, and default rates for specific collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMOs”) and collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”), rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in our CMOs and CDOs by selling them. Accordingly, if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of these or other investment securities have additional OTTI, our future earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. 13 If we are unable to continue to attract or retain core deposits, to obtain third party borrowings on favorable terms, or to have access to interbank or other liquidity sources, our cost of funds will increase, adversely affecting our ability to generate funds necessary for lending operations, reducing net interest margin and negatively affecting results of operations. First Federal derives liquidity primarily through core deposit growth and maturity and sale of investment securities and loans. Additionally, First Federal has access to borrowing sources on an unsecured, and a collateralized basis for both short-term and long-term purposes including, but not limited to, the Federal Reserve, the FHLB of which we are a member, and other correspondent banks. If these funding sources are not sufficient or available, we may have to acquire funds through higher-cost sources and our liquidity position could be significantly constrained. Although we currently have the ability to borrow funds on both a short-term and long-term basis as an additional source of liquidity, our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates may be negatively impacted if our ratings were downgraded from their current level, and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A general decline in economic conditions and volatility or declines in premiums or claims associated with catastrophic events may adversely affect the revenues of our insurance segment. To the extent our insurance clients become adversely affected by weak economic conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance coverage, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue. In addition, our insurance segment revenues consist primarily of commissions and fees paid to us out of the premiums that insurers charge our clients for coverage. We have no control over premium rates, and our revenues are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. If premium rates decline, the revenues of our insurance segment will be adversely affected. One type of commission paid by insurance carriers to our insurance segment, contingent commission, is based on premium growth and claims experience. In the event of a natural disaster involving a commonly insured peril, (i.e., a hurricane) the contingent commission typically earned by our insurance segment will be adversely affected. Economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to us. First Federal must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the OTS, which can change depending on general economic conditions, our risk profile and growth plans. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or if we do raise additional capital it will not be dilutive to existing shareholders, or we will be able to raise capital at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. If we determine, for any reason, that we need to raise capital, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or from the perception that such sales could occur. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our participation in the TARP CPP and other government regulations impose restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to pay or increase dividends, repurchase shares of preferred or common stock, and access the equity capital markets. First Financial is an entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from its subsidiaries. Accordingly, First Financial is and will be dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock. The subsidiaries’ abilities to pay dividends are subject to their ability to earn net income and, in the case of First Federal, to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the subsidiaries were unable to pay dividends to First Financial, First Financial may not be able to pay dividends on its common or preferred stock. Also, First Financial’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. We entered into a securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury in connection with the TARP CPP, which provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 5, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock we issued to the Treasury have been redeemed by us or transferred by the Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock to more than $0.255 per share or (b) redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or any trust preferred securities then outstanding (subject to limited exceptions). We also are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current on our dividend payments to the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant we issued to the Treasury, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. 14 Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Furthermore, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock at any time outstanding or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. In the future we may further reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock within five years from the issuance date, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $3.3 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $5.9 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The banking industry is heavily regulated, and such regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not shareholders or holders of subordinated debt or trust preferred securities. First Financial and First Federal are both subject to regulation by the OTS, which is our current primary regulator. In addition, we have non-bank operating subsidiaries from which we derive income. Certain of these non-bank subsidiaries engage in providing investment management and insurance brokerage services, which industries are also heavily regulated at both a state and federal level. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the financial services industry could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in heightened regulatory scrutiny and in sanctions by regulatory agencies (such as a memorandum of understanding, a written supervisory agreement or a cease and desist order), civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. Any of these consequences could restrict our ability to expand our business or could require us to raise additional capital or sell assets on terms that are not advantageous to us or our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, such violations may occur despite our best efforts. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by the U.S. Congress will, among other things, eliminate the OTS, tighten capital standards, create a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on First Financial. For example, the new law provides that the OTS, which is currently the primary federal regulator for First Financial and its subsidiary, First Federal, will cease to exist one year from the date of the new law’s enactment. The OCC, which is currently the primary federal regulator for national banks, will become the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts. Additionally, the Federal Reserve Board will supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS, including First Financial. Also effective one year after the date of enactment is a provision that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on First Financial’s interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on a financial institution’s average consolidated total assets less tangible equity. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and noninterest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow shareholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and gives it broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Additionally, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as First Federal, will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. 15 It is difficult to predict the specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act, and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations, will have on financial institutions. However, it is expected that they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Increased competition with other financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and grow our client base, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. First Federal faces substantial competition in originating loans and gathering deposits. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, other lenders, and institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives. Many of our competitors have competitive advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition, and the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of the loans that we originate and the interest rates we charge on these loans. Additionally, these competitors may offer higher interest rates, which could decrease the deposits we attract or require us to increase rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations which could increase our cost of funds. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge as part of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by depository institutions, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may need to record an impairment charge, which could negatively affect our results of operations and capital. Accounting standards require that we account for acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), our goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of common stock of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. As of September 30, 2010, our balance sheet reflected $28.3 million of goodwill. If we were required to record a goodwill impairment charge, our results of operations and stock price may be materially adversely affected. Our potential inability to integrate companies we may acquire in the future could expose us to financial, execution, and operational risks that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions may be dilutive to common shareholders and FDIC-assisted transactions have additional compliance risk that other acquisitions do not have. On occasion, we may engage in a strategic acquisition when we believe there is an opportunity to strengthen and expand our business. In addition, such acquisitions may involve the issuance of stock, which may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. To fully benefit from such acquisition, however, we must integrate the administrative, financial, sales, lending, collections, and marketing functions of the acquired company. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition, and our financial results may be negatively affected. A completed acquisition may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including our capital requirements and the accounting treatment of the acquisition. Completed acquisitions may also lead to exposure from potential asset quality issues, losses of key employees or customers, difficulty and expense of integrating operations and systems, and significant unexpected liabilities after the consummation of these acquisitions. 16 We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, ongoing compliance risk under the loss-share agreement with the FDIC is considerable and the event of noncompliance could result in coverage under the loss-share being disallowed, thus increasing the actual losses to First Federal. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the FDIC changes its assessment rate or deposit insurance premium methodology, our FDIC insurance premium may increase and this could have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009, and we may have to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Market developments have significantly depleted the FDIC’s insurance funds and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised our deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis-point special insurance premium assessment on each insured depository institution as of June 30, 2009. Our FDIC deposit insurance expense for fiscal 2010 was $4.0 million, compared with $5.3 million in fiscal 2009, which included the special assessment of $1.7 million. The FDIC also issued a final rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. Each institution’s base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. We made a payment of $14.1 million to the FDIC on December 30, 2009, and recorded the payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. In the event that the special assessment and the prepayment do not provide sufficient funds for the FDIC to resolve future bank failures, the FDIC may require additional special assessments or increase assessment rates for all FDIC insured institutions. An increase in premium rates or assessments could significantly increase our noninterest expense currently and for the foreseeable future, which will adversely affect our results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act included provisions relating to FDIC deposit insurance to permanently increase deposit insurance coverage for eligible accounts from $100,000 to $250,000 and give the FDIC additional flexibility in setting deposit insurance assessments. Additionally, the method for assessing deposit insurance will change from an insured depository institution’s insured deposits to its average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity, with applicable changes in rate as well. The final regulations related to the Dodd-Frank Act are still pending, and we cannot be certain what, if any, effect the Dodd-Frank will have on deposit insurance and deposit insurance assessments. We are party to various lawsuits incidental to our business. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties such that the expenses and ultimate exposure with respect to many of these matters cannot be ascertained. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action are legitimate or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business continuity plans or data security systems could prove to be inadequate, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, whether due to severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, criminal activity or other factors, could result in failures or disruptions in general ledger, deposit, loan, customer relationship management, and other systems. While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations and financial condition. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; · dispositions, acquisitions and financings; · actions of our current shareholders, including sales of common stock by existing shareholders and our directors and executive officers; · fluctuations in the stock prices and operating results of our competitors; · regulatory developments; and · other developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Delaware and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy on our Board of Directors, and supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors. Our Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to OTS regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the OTS. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 