ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks, including those described below, which could affect the value of your investment in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described in this section, as well as any cautionary language in this report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our operating results and financial condition. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks and you could lose all or part of your investment. First Financial believes that its primary risk exposures, among others, are credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal, reputational and strategic. Credit risk arises from the potential that a borrower or counterparty will fail to perform on an obligation. Credit risk assessment also entails making sure that lending standards continue to evolve to keep up with developments in the marketplace. Market risk is the risk to a financial institution’s condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or equity prices. Liquidity risk is the potential that an institution will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding or that it cannot easily unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions. Operational risk is the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, cyber-attacks, fraud, or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. Legal risk is the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits, or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect First Financial’s operations or condition. Failure to abide by extensive rules and regulations from the SEC as well as federal and state banking authorities can lead to governmental investigations and sanctions. Reputational risk is the potential that negative publicity regarding an institution’s business practices, whether true or not, will cause a decline in the customer base, costly litigation, or revenue reductions. Strategic risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from adverse business decisions or improper implementation of those decisions. This risk is a function of the compatibility of First Financial’s strategic goals, the business strategies developed to achieve those goals, the resources deployed against these goals, and the quality of implementation. Effective risk management practices require active oversight, participation, and interaction by and between the Board and executive management. Executive management has established appropriate risk committees and sub-committees as external and internal circumstances warrant. General Business Risks A large portion of our loan portfolio is secured by residential and commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in residential and commercial real estate values could lead to additional losses, which may have a negative impact on our capital and financial condition and results of operations. 17 At December 31, 2012, $2.0 billion or 79.3% of our loan portfolio was secured by residential and commercial real estate properties. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations. The decline in residential and commercial real estate values due to the downturn in the housing market and weakness in the economy has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these loans and has increased the risk that we will incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. We originate commercial real estate loans for various purposes which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than residential or consumer loans and, if non-owner occupied, repayment is normally dependent on income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial real estate loans may expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential mortgages because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. If we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral may be longer than for a residential mortgage loan because there may be fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As of December 31, 2012, our commercial real estate loans totaled $491.6 million or 19.7% of our loan portfolio and approximately 48.2% of these loans are owner occupied. Construction and land loans totaled $146.4 million or 5.9% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2012. Land loans include raw land, residential lot financing primarily for individuals, land acquisition and development loans and loans secured by land used for business purposes. Construction and land development loans are based on estimates of costs and value associated with the completed projects. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to accurately evaluate the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts and repayment is substantially dependent on the success of the finished project as well as the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and may incur a loss. Residential loans with high LTV ratios are more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined LTV ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. On occasion, there have been residential first mortgages originated under specific lending programs that allow borrowers to obtain up to 100% of the appraised value and finance closing costs, resulting in an LTV at origination of 100% or greater. At December 31, 2012, we had $90.9 million of residential mortgage loans originated with LTVs of 100% or greater. We generally require private mortgage insurance in order to reduce our exposure on loans with LTVs greater than 80% at origination. Our exposure is also reduced for loans guaranteed under Veterans Administration (“VA”) or Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) programs. Residential mortgage loans with an original LTV of 100% or greater, which were not guaranteed or did not have private mortgage insurance, totaled $62.2 million at December 31, 2012. There was an additional $297.8 million of loans with original LTVs between 80% and 100% that were not guaranteed or did not have private mortgage insurance as of December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2012, $384.7 million or 15.4% of our loan portfolio, consisted of home equity loans, and the risks associated with these loans, including the risk of higher rates of delinquency and defaults, will continue to increase if housing prices continue to decline. Certain borrowers currently have little or no equity remaining in their properties due to declining valuations. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, manufactured housing loans totaled $280.1 million or 11.2% of our loan portfolio. Manufactured housing lending involves additional risks as a result of higher LTVs usually associated with these types of loans. The values of manufactured homes decline over time and higher levels of inventories of repossessed and used manufactured homes may affect the values of collateral and result in higher charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our commercial business loans are originated primarily based on the identified cash flow and general liquidity of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower and/or repayment capacity of any guarantor. The borrower’s cash flow may be unpredictable and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use. In addition, business assets may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral value provided by the borrower and liquidity of the guarantor. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Additions to the allowance for loan losses may be required by increasing our provision for loan losses, which would cause our net income to decline and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial positions. 18 We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: ·our general allowance, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; and ·our specific allowance, based on our evaluation of impaired loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of real estate in our market area has been substantially affected by the current economic environment, increased levels of inventories of unsold homes and higher foreclosure rates. As a result, property values have declined substantially and slow housing conditions have affected some borrowers’ ability to sell completed development projects in a timely manner. While certain of our markets are experiencing some stability in economic conditions and real estate value, if current national trends in unemployment, housing and real estate market declines and weaknesses in the economy continue, we may experience increases in delinquent loans, nonperforming assets and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to record a higher provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If real estate values decline further, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Higher levels of delinquent and nonperforming loans and charge-offs may affect our provision for loan losses, which totaled $20.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. If our levels of delinquent and nonperforming loans and charge-offs increase, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate, and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will not sustain credit losses requiring additions to the provision for loan losses in excess of present levels. We may be subject to losses resulting from repurchase requests arising out of our residential mortgage business. Like other companies with residential mortgage loan origination and servicing operations, we face the risk of litigation and claims from investors in mortgage loans originated or serviced by us (or securities backed by such loans). Included among these potential claims are claims by investors seeking the repurchase of loans where the loans allegedly breached origination covenants or representations and warranties made to the investors in the applicable purchase and sale agreements. During 2012, we repurchased $541 thousand of loans previously sold. While we do not believe that future repurchase obligations will materially change our financial condition or results of operations, our future repurchases are dependent on economic factors, investor demand strategies, housing market trends and other circumstances, which are beyond our control and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that our repurchases will not increase in the future. Future repurchases could result in increases to our net charge-offs, provision for loan losses and noninterest expenses. The recent negative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets and the economy in general may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolios. Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 and that have continued through 2012 in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in unprecedented volatility and disruption in the financial markets and a general economic downturn. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have shown deterioration at our bank and at many other institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets, and financial institution and financial institution holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of financial institutions and their holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, significant new federal laws and regulations relating to financial institutions, including, without limitation, the EESA, the TARP CPP, and the Dodd-Frank Act, have been adopted. There can be no assurance that these government actions will achieve their purpose. In addition, the potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding, among other matters, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards and bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets, and the economy in general and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans and materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. Our business is predominately conducted throughout coastal South Carolina, as well as in the Florence, and Greenville, South Carolina and Wilmington, North Carolina markets; continuation of the economic downturn in our primary market area could negatively impact our results of operations and our financial condition. Because of our geographic concentration in South Carolina and North Carolina, continuation of the economic downturn in these markets could make it more difficult to attract deposits, originate quality loans and could cause higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if our assets were more geographically diversified. Adverse economic conditions in our primary market areas, including, without limitation, declining real estate values, could cause our levels of nonperforming assets and loan losses to increase. If the economic downturn continues or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. A continued economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. 19 Our net interest income may decline based on the interest rate environment. Our profitability is dependent in large part on our net interest income. Differences in volume, yields or interest rates and differences in income earning products such as investment securities and portfolio loans and interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings determine our net interest income. We are exposed to changes in general interest rate levels and other economic factors beyond our control. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. Depending on the terms and maturities of our assets and liabilities, we believe it is more likely than not a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We may not be able to adequately anticipate and respond to changes in market interest rates. We may be unable to anticipate changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control including but not limited to inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, monetary policy and other changes that affect financial markets both domestic and foreign. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. In the event rates increase, our interest costs on liabilities may increase more rapidly than our income on interest earning assets, resulting in a deterioration of net interest margins. As such, fluctuations in interest rates could have significant adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our mortgage operations provide a portion of our noninterest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of residential mortgage loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Ginnie Mae or Freddie Mac and retain the servicing of sold loans. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors, which would decrease mortgage revenues in noninterest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of noninterest expenses associated with mortgage activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, other loan expense and other costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. Further economic downturns may adversely affect our investment securities portfolio and profitability. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized $503 thousand in other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) charges associated with our investment securities portfolio. These OTTI charges were determined based on anticipated adverse changes to the projected cash flows for each of the underlying securities caused by, among other things, constant default rates, severity of losses, geographic property value reductions, projected collateral losses, a change in historical prepayment speeds and a deterioration in the current level of subordination. We closely monitor these and our other investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities and the determination of any OTTI with respect to such securities is highly complex and involves a comprehensive process, including quantitative modeling and significant judgment. The valuation of our investment securities will also continue to be influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of SEC and Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance on fair value accounting and default rates for specific collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMOs”) and collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”), rating agency actions and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in our CMOs and CDOs by selling them. Accordingly, if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of these or other investment securities have additional OTTI, our future earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. If we are unable to continue to attract or retain core deposits, to obtain third party borrowings on favorable terms or to have access to interbank or other liquidity sources, our cost of funds will increase, adversely affecting our ability to generate funds necessary for lending operations, reducing net interest margin and negatively affecting results of operations. We derive liquidity primarily through core deposit (checking, savings and money market accounts) growth and through the maturity, sale and cash flows from both investment securities and loans. Additionally, we have access to borrowing sources on an unsecured and a collateralized basis for both short-term and long-term purposes including, but not limited to, the FHLB, the Federal Reserve and other correspondent banks. If these funding sources are not sufficient or available, we may have to acquire funds through higher-cost sources and our liquidity position could be significantly constrained. Although we currently have the ability to borrow funds on both a short-term and long-term basis as an additional source of liquidity, our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates may be negatively impacted if our ratings were downgraded from their current level, and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 20 Competition with other financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and grow our client base, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive and includes services offered from other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, other lenders and institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. The financial services industry continues to experience an ongoing trend towards consolidation in which fewer large national and regional banks and other financial institutions are replacing many smaller and more local banks. These larger banks and other financial institutions hold a large accumulation of assets and have significantly greater resources and a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. In some instances, these larger entities operate without the traditional brick and mortar facilities that restrict geographic presence. Some competitors have more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition, and are able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than First Federal. In addition, competition has increased from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect other smaller institutions to try to compete in the markets we serve. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of the loans that we originate and the interest rates we charge on these loans. Additionally, these competitors may offer higher interest rates, which could decrease the deposits we attract or require us to increase rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations which could increase our cost of funds. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge as part of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Technological developments have allowed competitors, including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in the industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer’s audited financial statements conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner or rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected because we are exposed to conditions or assumptions different from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, included in this document, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered “critical” by us because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, such events or assumptions could have a material impact on our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Our potential inability to integrate companies we may acquire in the future could expose us to financial, execution and operational risks that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions may be dilutive to common shareholders. 21 On occasion, we may engage in a strategic acquisition when we believe there is an opportunity to strengthen and expand our business. In addition, such acquisitions may involve the issuance of stock, which may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. To fully benefit from such acquisition, however, we must integrate the administrative, financial, sales, lending, collections and marketing functions of the acquired company. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition, and our financial results may be negatively affected. A completed acquisition may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including our capital requirements and the accounting treatment of the acquisition. Completed acquisitions may also lead to exposure from potential asset quality issues, losses of key employees or customers, difficulty and expense of integrating operations and systems and significant unexpected liabilities after the consummation of these acquisitions. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in a goodwill impairment charge, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to continue to receive the benefits of our loss share arrangements with the FDIC is conditioned on our compliance with certain requirements under the agreements. We are the beneficiary of loss share agreements with the FDIC that call for the FDIC to fund a portion of our losses on certain assets we acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions. To recover a portion of our losses and retain the loss share protections, we must comply with certain requirements imposed by the agreements. Ongoing compliance risk under the loss share agreements with the FDIC is considerable and the event of noncompliance could result in coverage under the loss share being disallowed; increasing the actual losses to us. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our loss share agreement with the FDIC will not cover all of our losses on the loans we acquired. Although we have entered into loss share agreements with the FDIC under which the FDIC will bear a significant portion of the losses related to the specified loan portfolios, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to these loans. The loss share agreements have limited terms (five years for losses on non-single family estate loans, and ten years for losses on single-family residential real estate loans). Therefore, the FDIC will not reimburse us for any charge-off, related expenses or losses that we experience after the term of the loss share agreements, and any such charge-offs could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDIC required that we make a “true-up” payment to the FDIC if our realized losses are less than expected. The Plantation loss share agreement contains a provision that obligates us to make a “true-up” payment to the FDIC if the realized losses are less than expected. The “true-up” calculation may be made after the fifth anniversary of the agreement and could potentially be evaluated for an additional three years. Any such “true-up” payment that is materially higher than the $3.5 million we have recorded as of December 31, 2012 could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative public opinion regarding our company and the financial institutions industry in general could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion regarding our company and the financial institutions industry in general, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we have taken steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business. We are exposed to a possible loss of our senior management team and key employees. If we were to lose key employees, we may experience a disruption in our relationship with certain customers. We are dependent on the continued efforts and abilities of our key employees and our executive officers. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain our current key employees and attract new skilled people. Competition for the best people in most of our business activities can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain sufficiently skilled people. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Many of our key employees have extensive customer relationships. Loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of customers if they were to follow that employee to a competitor. Also, as we continue to grow operations, our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain qualified middle management personnel. While we believe that our relationship with our senior management team, other key employees and key producers is good, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. We are no longer subject to the US Treasury’s standards for executive compensation, and our compensation expense may increase. 22 As a result of our participation in the CPP, we were subject to the US Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance during the period in which the US Treasury held shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. However, upon the completion of the US Treasury’s sale of all of its shares of our Series A Preferred Stock in March 2012, these executive compensation and corporate governance standards ceased to apply to First Financial. Our compensation expense for our executive officers and other senior employees may increase in future periods. A failure in, interruption in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party service providers or other third parties, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs or cause losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business and are dependent on our ability to create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational infrastructure. Our dependence on automated systems may further increase the risk that technical failures of or tampering with those systems will result in operational or systemic disruption that could be challenging to remediate or losses that are difficult to detect. Information security risks for financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies; the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions; and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operating systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting and data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunication outages natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and cyber-attacks. Our business relies on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct its operations. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers’ devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers’ or other third parties’ confidential information. Third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries or vendors that provide service or security solutions for our operations and other unaffiliated third parties, including the South Carolina Department of Revenue, which had customer records exposed in a 2012 cyber-attack, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature of these threats. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputation damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations and financial condition. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Proposed Merger with SCBT On February 19, 2013, First Financial entered into the Agreement with SCBT pursuant to which First Financial plans to merge with and into SCBT, with SCBT continuing as the surviving corporation (referred to as the “merger”). The Agreement also provides that, immediately following the closing of the merger, First Federal will merge with and into SCBT Bank, with SCBT Bank continuing as the surviving bank in the merger. The following are risks to be considered in connection with the proposed merger. First Financial cannot be sure of the market value of the merger consideration that First Financial shareholders will receive as a result of the proposed merger with SCBT. 23 Upon completion of the merger, each share of First Financial common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.4237 of a share of SCBT common stock, subject to the payment of cash in lieu of fractional shares. The market value of the merger will vary from the closing price of SCBT common stock on the date we announced the merger, on the date that the proxy statement/prospectus is mailed to our shareholders for the special meeting to, among other things, approve the merger, on the date of the special shareholders meeting, on the date we complete the merger and thereafter. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in our respective businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any change in the market price of SCBT common stock prior to completion of the merger will affect the market value of the merger consideration that First Financial’s shareholders will receive upon completion of the merger, and there will be no adjustment to the merger consideration for changes in the market price of either shares of SCBT common stock or shares of our common stock. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on the resulting institution’s ability to realized the anticipated benefits and cost savings from continuing the businesses of First Financial and SCBT. However, to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, the businesses of First Financial and SCBT must be successfully combined. The anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. First Financial has operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert the attention of management and resources and could result in deposit attrition or other adverse operational results. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on First Financial during the pre-merger transition period and on the combined company following the merger. The merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities that may impose condition that could have an adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. Before the merger may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the SC Board and other various domestic and foreign banking, securities, antitrust, and other regulatory authorities. These government entities may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the merger. Such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. If the merger is not completed, First Financial will have incurred incremental expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the merger. First Financial has incurred incremental expenses in connection with the negotiation and planned completion of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement. If the merger is not completed, First Financial will have to recognize these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the merger. The merger is subject to certain closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the merger not being completed, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and approvals of the First Financial and the SCBT shareholders and that no injunction by any court of competent jurisdiction preventing the consummation of the merger shall be in effect. If any condition to the merger is not satisfied or waived, to the extent permitted by law, the merger will not be completed. In addition, First Financial and SCBT may terminate the Agreement under certain circumstances even if the merger is approved by First Financial and SCBT shareholders, including but not limited to if the merger has not been completed on or before December 31, 2013. If First Financial and SCBT do not complete the merger, the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of those shares reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. In addition, neither company would realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the merger. If the merger is not completed, additional risks could materialize, which could materially and adversely affect First Financial’s business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. 24 The market price of SCBT common stock after the merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the shares of First Financial or SCBT. The businesses of First Financial and SCBT differ in important respects and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of the combined company’s shares of common stock may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent result of operations of First Financial and SCBT. The Agreement limits First Financial’s ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal and required First Financial to pay a termination fee of $14.9 million under limited circumstances relating to alternative acquisition proposals. The Agreement prohibits First Financial and SCBT from soliciting, initiating or knowingly encouraging or facilitating certain alternative acquisition proposals with any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the Agreement. The Agreement also provides for the payment by First Financial or SCBT of a termination fee in the amount of $14.9 million in the event that the other party terminates the Agreement for certain reasons. These provision might discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of First Financial from considering or proposing such an acquisition. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive and evolving regulations, which could restrict our activities, have an adverse impact on our operations and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Effective July 21, 2011, First Financial became subject to Federal Reserve regulation and effective February 3, 2012, in conjunction with its charter change, First Federal became subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the SC Board and the Federal Reserve, in addition to being regulated by the FDIC as insurer of its deposits. Also, as a member of the FHLB, First Federal must comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLB. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareholders. First Federal’s activities are also regulated under consum0er protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we have non-bank operating subsidiaries from which we derive income. First Southeast Investors engages in providing investment management services, which is also heavily regulated at both a state and federal level. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the financial services industry could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in heightened regulatory scrutiny and in sanctions by regulatory agencies (such as a memorandum of understanding, a written supervisory agreement or a cease-and-desist order), civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. Any of these consequences could restrict our ability to expand our business or could require us to raise additional capital or sell assets on terms that are not advantageous to us or our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, such violations may occur despite our best efforts. Financial reform legislation enacted by the US Congress, and further changes in regulation to which we are exposed, will result in additional new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has and will continue to significantly change bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and gives it broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Additionally, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the Congress of the United States of America. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. It is possible that additional legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, it is expected that such regulatory changes will increase our operating and compliance cost. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on 25 Banking Supervision, announced an agreement to a strengthened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations in the US and around the world, known as Basel III. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC, and the FDIC issued a joint notice of proposed rulemaking that would implement sections of the Dodd-Frank Act that encompasses certain aspects of Basel III with respect to capital and liquidity. On November 9, 2012, following a public comment period, the US federal banking agencies announced that the originally proposed January 1, 2013 effective date for the proposed rules was being delayed so that the agencies could consider operational and transitional issues identified in the large volume of public comments received. The proposed rules, if adopted, would lead to significantly higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios than those currently in place. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as First Financial, and non-bank financial companies that are supervised by the Federal Reserve Board. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. In particular, bank holding companies, many of which have long relied on trust preferred securities as a component of their regulatory capital, will no longer be permitted to issue new trust preferred securities that count toward their Tier 1 capital. While the Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict how any new standards will ultimately be applied to First Financial and First Federal. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for First Financial and First Federal could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the issuance of additional capital, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, require us to reduce business levels and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. We are party to various lawsuits incidental to our business. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties such that the expenses and ultimate exposure with respect to many of these matters cannot be ascertained. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action are legitimate or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Since First Financial is a bank holding company, its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal and state regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In accordance with this policy statement, the Federal Reserve may generally restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends if (i) First Financial’s net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; (ii) First Financial’s prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with its capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition; (iii) First Financial will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital ratios; or (iv) the Federal Reserve otherwise determines that the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. The Federal Reserve’s policies also require that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks by standing ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to those banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and by maintaining the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks where necessary. Under the prompt corrective action regulations, the ability of a bank holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could affect the ability of First Financial to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions. Since First Financial is a legal entity separate and distinct from First Federal and does not conduct stand-alone operations, its ability to pay dividends depends on the ability of First Federal to pay dividends to it. As a South Carolina chartered bank, First Federal is subject to limitations on the amount of dividends that it is permitted to pay. Unless otherwise instructed by the SC Board or the Commissioner of Banking, First Federal is generally permitted under South Carolina state banking regulations to pay cash dividends of up to 100% of net income in any calendar year without obtaining the prior approval of the SC Board. Under Federal Reserve regulations, a dividend cannot be paid by First Federal if it would be less than well-capitalized after the dividend. The Federal Reserve may also prevent the payment of a dividend by First Federal if it determines that the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. In addition, as a result of First Federal’s charter conversion and Federal Reserve membership, First Federal is subject to Federal Reserve Supervisory Letter SR 91-17, which provides application and supervision standards for de novo state member banks and converting thrifts. The guidance includes standards for, among other things, cash flows between the bank and the holding company and capital levels. With respect to capital levels, the guidance generally provides that de novo state member banks and converting thrifts maintain a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of 9.00% for the first three years as a state member bank, which could under certain 26 circumstances limit First Federal’s ability to pay a dividend to First Financial. First Federal had a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of 9.97% at December 31, 2012. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors, news reports of trends, irrational exuberance on the part of investors, new federal banking regulations and other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our normal business. Future sales of our stock by our shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our stock price to decline. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the relatively low trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to us. If we have to issue shares of common stock, they will dilute the percentage ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock and adversely affect the terms on which we may obtain additional capital. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments or to strengthen our capital position. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control and our financial performance. We cannot provide assurance that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, or if we do raise additional capital that it will not be dilutive to existing shareholders. If we determine, for any reason, that we need to raise capital, subject to applicable NASDAQ rules, our Board generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of stock for any corporate purpose, including issuance of equity-based incentives under or outside of our equity compensation plans. Additionally, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or from the perception that such sales could occur. If we issue preferred stock that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Any issuance of additional shares of stock will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Shares we issue in connection with any such offering will increase the total number of shares and may dilute the economic and voting ownership interest of our existing shareholders. If we are unable or choose not to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock within five years from the issuance date, the cost of this capital to us will increase. On March 29, 2012, the US Treasury completed the sale of its $65.0 million in First Financial Series A Preferred Stock to private investors through a registered public offering. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, or if we choose not to redeem the preferred stock at that time, the cost of this capital will increase on that date, from 5.0% per annum ($3.3 million annually) to 9.0% per annum ($5.9 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity and our financial results. 27 Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Delaware and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy on our Board, and supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors. Our Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes our Board to issue preferred stock and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to federal banking regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the regulatory banking agencies. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 