Risk Factors” section: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; · dispositions, acquisitions and financings; · actions of our current shareholders, including sales of common stock by existing shareholders and our directors and executive officers; · fluctuations in the stock prices and operating results of our competitors; · regulatory developments; and · other developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. There may be future sales of additional common stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market after this offering or from the perception that such sales could occur. 40 Our Board of Directors is authorized generally to cause us to issue additional common stock, as well as series of preferred stock, without any action on the part of our shareholders except as may be required under the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market. In addition, the Board has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. We have broad discretion in using the net proceeds from our stock offering, and may not use the proceeds effectively. We intend to use the net proceeds of the stock offering for general corporate purposes, which may include, without limitation, providing capital to support the growth of our subsidiaries and other strategic opportunities. We may also seek the approval of our regulators to utilize the proceeds of this offering and other cash available to us to repurchase all or a portion of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant we issued to the Treasury pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program. We have not determined if, or when, we will seek the approval of our regulators to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant, and no assurance can be given that such approval will be granted if requested. We have not designated the amount of net proceeds we will use for any particular purpose. Accordingly, our management will retain broad discretion to allocate the net proceeds of our stock offering. The net proceeds may be applied in ways with which you and other investors may not agree. Moreover, our management may use the proceeds for corporate purposes that may not increase our market value or make us more profitable. In addition, it may take us some time to effectively deploy the proceeds from the stock offering. Until the proceeds are effectively deployed, our return on equity and earnings per share may be negatively impacted. Management’s failure to use the net proceeds of the stock offering effectively could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock. First Financial is an entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from its subsidiaries. Accordingly, First Financial is and will be dependent upon dividends from its subsidiaries to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock. The subsidiaries abilities to pay dividends are subject to their ability to earn net income and, in the case of First Federal, to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the subsidiaries were unable to pay dividends to First Financial, First Financial may not be able to pay dividends on its common or preferred stock. Also, First Financial’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury we entered into in connection with the TARP Capital Purchase Program provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 5, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock we issued to the Treasury have been redeemed by us or transferred by the Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock to more than $0.255 per share or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or any trust preferred securities then outstanding. We also are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the Warrant we issued to the Treasury described below, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. You may not receive dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock at any time outstanding or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. On February 2, 2009, we announced our intention to reduce the quarterly dividend on our common stock from $0.255 per share to $0.05 per share, which became effective for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. In the future we may further reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 41 If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities or if certain defaults relating to those debt securities occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock. As of September 30, 2009, we had outstanding $46.4 million aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debt securities issued in connection with our sale of trust preferred securities through a statutory business trust. We have also guaranteed these trust preferred securities and entered into an indenture in connection with the debt securities we issued. The indenture, together with the related guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock (including our Series A preferred stock and our common stock) at any time when (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under the indenture or any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of time or both would constitute an event of default under the indenture; or (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the related guarantee; or (iii) we have deferred payment of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities outstanding under that indenture. In that regard, we are entitled, at our option but subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities of each series from time to time for up to five years. Events of default under the indenture generally consist of our failure to pay interest on the junior subordinated debt securities outstanding under the indenture under certain circumstances, our failure to pay any principal of or premium on such junior subordinated debt securities when due, our failure to comply with certain covenants under the indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us or First Federal. As a result of these provisions, if we were to elect to defer payments of interest on our junior subordinated debt securities, or if any of the other events described in clause (i) or (ii) of the first paragraph of this risk factor were to occur, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock, from redeeming, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any of our Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock, and from making any payments to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock in the event of our liquidation, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock, we may issue additional series of junior subordinated debt securities in the future with terms similar to those of our existing junior subordinated debt securities or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. Our common stock constitutes equity and is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and our Series A Preferred Stock, and effectively subordinated to all the indebtedness and other non-common equity claims against our subsidiaries. The shares of our common stock represent equity interests in us and do not constitute indebtedness. Accordingly, the shares of our common stock will rank junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness and to other non-equity claims on First Financial with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on First Financial. Additionally, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of the holder(s) of our Series A Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock has an aggregate liquidation preference of $65.0 million. As noted above, the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock prohibit us from paying dividends with respect to our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all completed dividend periods with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid. In addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise, and thus your ability as a holder of our common stock to benefit indirectly from such distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. As a result, holders of our common stock will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries. At September 30, 2009, our subsidiaries’ total deposits and borrowings were approximately $3.1 billion. 42 Our Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the Warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First Financial. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The 483,391 shares of common stock underlying the Warrant represented approximately 3.04% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of September 30, 2009 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in total shares outstanding). As a result of receiving in excess of $65.0 million of gross proceeds related to our qualified equity offering completed in September 2009, the number of shares underlying the Warrant have been reduced to 241,696 shares, effective with Treasury approval on November 25, 2009, which represented approximately 1.52% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of September 30, 2009. Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $3.3 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $5.9 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Although shares of our common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of many larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Delaware and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, and supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors. Our Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to OTS regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the OTS. 43 These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. 44 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 