D. Risk factors This section describes some of the risks that could affect our business. The factors listed below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements given in this annual report and should be read in conjunction with “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” They are subject to the “Cautionary Statement with Respect to Forward-Looking Statements” appearing elsewhere in this annual report. This list is necessarily incomplete, as some risks may be as yet unknown to us. Any risk factor has the potential to adversely affect our business results, share price and financial condition. Economic conditions may adversely affect our sales and profitability Demand for consumer electronics products, which account for a significant proportion of our worldwide operating revenue, may be affected by general economic trends in the countries or regions in which our products are sold. Purchases of our products are, to a significant extent, discretionary. Similarly, demand for our business use products and for components we manufacture that go into products of third parties is affected by general economic trends in the various markets in which we sell our products. Economic downturns and resulting declines of demand in our major markets, including Japan, North America, Europe and Asia, may thus adversely affect our sales and profitability. 6 Table of Contents Additionally, our operations may be indirectly affected by the economic conditions of regions where our competitors manufacture their products. For example, if a competitor enjoys lower local labor costs, it may be able to offer similar products at a lower price. As a result, our sales may be adversely affected. Also, a decrease in the value of the local currency in a region that produces parts and raw materials may lead to a decrease in production costs (on a yen or a U.S. dollar basis) not only to us but to other manufacturers as well. Such a trend may in turn bring about vigorous export competition and price-cutting, both of which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our business results and financial condition Our operations involve the global production and distribution of products. Revenue and expense items that are denominated in local currency, such as sales, expenses and assets in each region, are translated into yen in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Depending on the rate of exchange at the time of currency translation, the values of such items in yen may be affected, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. Also, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect the local prices of our products and negatively impact their competitiveness in local markets. Generally, an appreciation of the yen against other currencies, particularly the yen against the U.S. dollar and the euro, in which we make significant sales, may adversely affect our business results and financial condition. An increase in the value of currencies in regions where we operate and produce may lead to an increase in the costs of manufacturing and procurement in those regions. Such an increase could accordingly adversely affect our profit margins and reduce our price competitiveness, thereby adversely affecting our business results. We engage in currency hedging transactions to attempt to minimize the negative effects of short-term fluctuations of foreign exchange rates among major currencies such as the U.S. dollar, euro and yen. However, as a result of mid-to-long-term exchange rate volatility, we cannot execute planned procurement, production, logistics, and sales activities with any certainty and, consequently, fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our business results and financial condition. If we are unable to innovate and to develop attractive new products, our future growth and profitability may be adversely affected We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of innovative new products. We expect that sales of our new products — currently including plasma displays and car navigation systems — will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and we expect our future growth and profitability to rely primarily on the continued development and sale of innovative new products, such as Blu-ray Disc players. While we believe that we are capable of continuing to develop innovative and attractive new products, the industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid changes, including technological changes. The process of developing and marketing new products is inherently complex and uncertain, and there are a number of risks, including the following: • We may be unable to obtain adequate funding and resources necessary for investments in new products and technologies. • Our long-term investments and commitment of significant resources may not result in successful new products or technologies. • We may not be able to anticipate successfully the new products and technologies which will gain market acceptance and that such products can be successfully marketed. • Our newly developed products or technologies may not be successfully protected as proprietary intellectual property rights. 7 Table of Contents • Our products may become obsolete earlier than expected due to rapid advancements in technology and changes in consumer preferences. • A delay in commercializing new technologies now under development may prevent us from keeping up with market demand. Our failure to anticipate adequately changes in the industry and the market, and to develop attractive new products, including any of the risks described above, may reduce our future growth and profitability. Competition generally, and especially on the basis of price and standardization of products, may adversely affect our results of operations The electronics industry, including the audio, video and car electronics industry, is intensely competitive. We expect to face increased competition in the various product and geographic markets in which we operate. Our competitors include manufacturers and distributors, some of which have greater capital resources available for research, development, production and marketing. In addition, as new technology develops and as new electronics products gain increased market acceptance, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. While we believe we are one of the leading innovators of advanced, high-quality and value-added electronics products, we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. Pricing pressures or loss of potential customers resulting from our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our results of operations. For example, competitors in the plasma display market may substantially increase their production capabilities or introduce alternative products at a lower price and cause market competition to intensify further. Moreover, due to standardization and the relative ease of imitation of products such as digital versatile disc (“DVD”) players, competition from manufacturers in emerging markets may also continue to intensify. Our research into the development of new products generally requires large costs that competitive imitators may not need to incur. In an aggressive price-cutting environment we may find it difficult to maintain or increase our market share or remain profitable against low-cost and low-budget competitors. Failure of our next generation optical disc format to gain broad market acceptance may adversely affect our business and results of operations Currently, there are two generally recognized competing formats for the next generation optical discs, Blu-ray Disc and HD DVD. Each of the disc formats makes use of its own distinct technology and is incompatible with the other format. We are focusing on the Blu-ray Disc format as the next generation optical discs and are developing products that are compatible with such format. The question of which format will prevail as the industry standard is not yet settled. Should our adopted format fail to be accepted as the de facto industry standard, or otherwise fail to gain wide acceptance, our business strategy and results of operations may be adversely affected. A substantial decline in our royalty revenue as a result of the expiration of many of our existing patents relating to laser optical disc technologies may adversely affect our profitability The licensing of our patent and other intellectual property rights makes a significant contribution to our net income since costs related to patent licensing are limited principally to amortization of patent rights and expenses for licensing activities. The legal protections afforded to these rights have a limited duration 8 Table of Contents under applicable laws, and the length of protection varies from country to country or region. A significant portion of our patent rights relating to laser optical disc technologies have expired in Europe and Japan and some portion of those in North America started to expire. As a result, our royalty revenue is expected to decline in the future. This decline in royalty revenue may in turn have an adverse impact on our profitability. Royalty revenue from patent licensing also depends to a material degree on the sales of patented products by our licensees, making it hard for us to predict actual royalty revenue amounts. For a discussion of our patent licensing business, see “Item 4.B. Business overview–Nature of operations.” If we are unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in our international activities and our overseas expansion, our results of operations and production capacity could be adversely affected A substantial portion of our manufacturing and marketing activity is conducted outside Japan, including in the United States, Europe, and in developing and emerging markets in Asia. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in such overseas markets, including the following: • Unexpected legal or regulatory changes; • Unfavorable political or economic factors; • Difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel; • Labor disputes including strikes; • Less developed technological infrastructure, which can affect our production or other activities or result in lower customer acceptance of our products and services; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; and • Social, political or economic turmoil due to terrorism, war, or other factors. In order to produce our products competitively and to reduce costs, we aim to continue expanding our production and parts procurement in the Shanghai and Guang Dong areas of the People’s Republic of China (“China”). Nevertheless, we may experience difficulties in managing a production facility and entering into business arrangements in China in light of unexpected events, including political or legal changes, labor shortages or strikes or changes in economic conditions in China. Furthermore, the outbreaks of epidemics may, depending on how they develop, adversely impact our operations in China, including delays in production due to travel restrictions on employees, as well as disruptions in parts procurement and factory operations. Accordingly, such incidents could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our dependence on certain third-party manufacturers and suppliers for parts and components could adversely affect our production capacity and results of operations While we strive to produce key components and parts such as laser pickups internally, we are dependent on a number of outside manufacturers and suppliers. Third parties manufacture some of our most important components and parts, including semiconductors. Our arrangements with third-party manufacturers and suppliers are generally on a renewable short-term basis. While we have sought to secure supply where necessary through strategic alliances and other measures, we may face shortages of key components, reflecting changes in the market trend. We may also experience shortages or other material disruptions in our supply of components and parts due to natural disasters or other events beyond our control. Shortages of key components may prevent us from producing enough products on a timely basis, which would cause us to lose sales opportunities or lead to strained relationships with our original equipment manufacturing (“OEM”) customers. Such condition may adversely affect our sales and profitability. See “Item 4.B. Business overview–Raw materials and sources of supply” for a discussion of our outside manufacturers and suppliers. 9 Table of Contents Our performance in the OEM business is substantially dependent on the performance of our customers’ businesses We provide our OEM products to automobile manufacturers, electronics manufacturers, personal computer (“PC”) makers and other large-scale businesses worldwide. The products we supply include car stereo products, car navigation systems, DVD drives, plasma displays and organic light-emitting diode (“OLED”) displays. Sales to business customers in these areas are significantly affected by the respective customers’ business results and by factors that are beyond our control. Further, price-cutting to meet customer demands may cause a reduction in our profit margin. The under-performance of a customer’s business, the unexpected termination of contracts, changes in the purchasing practices of our OEM customers or aggressive price-cutting to satisfy a large business customer’s demands may adversely affect our results of operations. Because our products and technologies are dependent on the service of capable engineers and other key personnel, difficulty in recruiting and developing key personnel could have an adverse impact on our future growth Our products and technologies are complex, and our future growth and success depend to a significant extent on the service of capable engineers and other key personnel; therefore, hiring and training additional highly-skilled engineers and other competent personnel are important for our success. Failure to recruit and develop key personnel may adversely affect our future growth. On the other hand, aggressive hiring of, among others, capable engineers who are experienced with the latest technology, may increase, sometimes substantially, both recruiting and actual labor costs. In addition, continued re-training of currently employed personnel, which may introduce higher costs, might also be necessary to maintain a superior level of innovation and technological advance. Such increased costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Limits on intellectual property protection may make us vulnerable to competition from third parties that use our technology and expertise While we have developed technology and expertise which differentiate our products from those of our competitors, some of our unique technology and expertise is either not fully capable of being protected by intellectual property rights or protected only to a limited extent pursuant to legal limitations in certain jurisdictions. Although we have the ability to reduce illegal imports of such products into certain jurisdictions through exercise of our legal rights, we may be unable to effectively prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights to produce products similar to ours. In addition, we may be unable to prevent third parties from developing technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, or from designing around or reverse engineering our patents and trade secrets. Moreover, our future products and technology might later be found to infringe upon a third party’s intellectual property rights. Product defects resulting in a large-scale product recall or successful products liability claims against us could result in a significant cost or a negative impact on our reputation and adversely affect our business results of operations We manufacture various products at our plants worldwide in accordance with internationally accepted quality-control standards. We cannot be certain, however, that all of our products are defect-free and may not be recalled at some later date. Furthermore, although we maintain insurance against product liability claims, we cannot be certain that such insurance can adequately satisfy the liabilities ultimately incurred. In addition, insurance may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A large-scale product recall or a successful products liability claim against us could result in significant costs or have a negative 10 Table of Contents impact on our reputation, which may in turn lead to a decrease in sales, adversely affecting our results of operations. Failure to achieve the goals of collaborations, technological tie-ups, and joint ventures with third parties may adversely affect our results of operations and future growth As part of our technological development process, we conduct many joint activities with other companies in the form of collaborations, technological tie-ups, or joint ventures intended to optimize management resources and utilize the synergy of combined technologies. We expect to continue to adopt an active approach to exploiting these opportunities. If differences arise among the participants of these joint activities due to managerial, financial or other reasons, we may not achieve the goals of these development projects, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. Governmental regulation may limit our activities or increase our costs of operations Our business and operations are subject to various forms of government regulation in countries in which we do business, including required business/investment approvals, as well as export regulations based on national security or other reasons and other export/import regulations such as tariffs. In addition, commercial, antitrust, patent, consumer, taxation, exchange control and environment/recycling laws and regulations also apply. If we are unable to comply with these regulations, they can serve to limit our activities. In addition, compliance with these regulations could result in increased costs. Accordingly, these regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 4.B. Business overview–Governmental regulation” for a discussion of certain government regulations applicable to us. Damage to our production facilities as a result of disasters, power outages or similar events may significantly reduce our production capacity We periodically carry out disaster prevention checks and facility maintenance at all of our production facilities to minimize potential negative impact caused by disruptions on our manufacturing lines. However, we may not completely prevent or mitigate the effect of a disaster, outage or other disruption at our production facilities. For example, our plasma display panels are currently manufactured at our Shizuoka, Yamanashi and Kagoshima plants in Japan which is an earthquake-prone country. Accordingly, our plasma display panel production capacity could be significantly reduced in the event of a major earthquake in Japan. Employee retirement benefit costs and obligations may adversely affect our results of operations Pioneer is obligated to pay certain employee retirement benefit costs and obligations to qualified employees upon their retirement. The amount of such employee retirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on assumptions used in the relevant actuarial calculations. These assumptions include discount rates, future compensation levels, return on assets, retirement rates and mortality rates, which are based upon current statistical data, as well as long-term returns on pension plan assets and other factors. If actual results differ from the assumptions or assumptions are changed, the resulting effects are accumulated and systematically recognized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect recognized expense and recorded obligations in future periods. Our pension benefit costs have been increasing in recent fiscal years due to declining discount rates and negative returns on pension plan assets, and further declines of discount rates and lower returns on pension plan assets may adversely affect our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents 