1A. Risk Factors,” elsewhere in this 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Other factors not currently anticipated may also materially and adversely affect First Financial’s results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. There can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations. While First Financial believes that the forward-looking statements in this report are reasonable, the reader should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. In addition, these statements speak only as of the date made. First Financial does not undertake, and expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter any statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. General First Financial Holdings, Inc. (which may also be referred to in this document as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a Delaware corporation which was incorporated in 1987, with the principal executive office located in Charleston, South Carolina. First Financial’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “FFCH.” First Financial offers integrated financial solutions, including personal, business, and wealth management services. First Financial operates principally through its wholly-owned subsidiary, First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Charleston (“First Federal”), a federally chartered stock savings and loan association founded in 1934. First Federal provides residential, commercial and consumer loan products, consumer and business deposit products, ATM and debit cards, cash management services, safe deposit boxes, trust and fiduciary services, and reinsurance of private mortgage insurance and premium financing activities. Other subsidiaries of First Financial include First Southeast Investor Services, Inc. (“First Southeast Investors”), which is a registered broker-dealer and First Southeast 401(k) Fiduciaries, Inc. (“First Southeast 401(k)”), which provides retirement plan consulting and administrative services as a registered investment advisor (“RIA”). Information as of September 30, 2011 for First Financial’s subsidiaries follows: 3 Subsidiary Principal Office Number of Offices Total Assets (in millions) Date Acquired/ Established First Federal(1) Charleston, SC 65 $3,206.3 1934 First Southeast Investors Charleston, SC 25 (2) (3) 1998 First Southeast 401(k) Charleston, SC (4) (4) 2010 (1) Consolidated totals include its non-financial institution subsidiaries. Total trust and 401(k) retirement assets under management were $421.7 million at September 30, 2011. (2) Includes offices located in a First Federal financial center. (3) Revenue for fiscal 2011 was $2.4 million and total assets under administration were $457.0 million at September 30, 2011. (4) Conducts business at a First Federal location providing services as an RIA with no designated assets under management and nominal assets or revenues. Principal Sources of Revenue and Lines of Business First Financial’s primary source of revenue is interest income on loans, interest and dividend payments from investment securities, and noninterest income, primarily service charges and fees on deposit accounts and mortgage and other loan income. The revenue tends to be influenced by overall economic factors, including market interest rates, business spending, and consumer confidence, as well as competitive conditions and residential and commercial real estate conditions within the local markets. Banking activities, which constitute First Financial’s only business segment, are provided by First Federal, the largest financial institution headquartered in the Charleston, South Carolina metropolitan area and the third largest financial institution headquartered in South Carolina, based on asset size. Prior to June 30, 2011, First Financial had two principal operating segments, banking and insurance, which were evaluated regularly by management and First Financial’s Board of Directors in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. During fiscal 2011, First Financial sold its insurance agency subsidiary, First Southeast Insurance Services, Inc. (“First Southeast”) and its managing general insurance agency, Kimbrell Insurance Group, Inc. (“Kimbrell”), and their results of operations are now segregated from continuing operations and displayed as (loss) income from discontinued operations on a net basis. First Financial continues to monitor the revenue streams of its various financial products and services but now manages its operations and evaluates its financial performance on a consolidated basis. As of September 30, 2011, First Financial considers its former Banking and Other business segments to not be independent and determined that they are one operating segment. Banking activities involve interest rate and credit risk, both of which are monitored against established policies. Additional information regarding interest rate risk and credit risk is incorporated herein by reference from “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, - Asset Quality, – Allowance for Loan Losses, and – Interest Rate Risk” as well as Notes 1, 3, and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant Recent Developments On October 26, 2011, First Financial announced it entered into a definitive agreement to sell certain performing loans and classified assets with an aggregate contractual principal balance of $197.9 million to affiliates of Värde Partners, Inc. On October 27, 2011, First Financial announced that it completed the sale of the bulk loan pool with an aggregate contractual principal balance of $194.8 million for a cash settlement that did not require First Financial to provide financing to facilitate the close. A second closing occurred on November 18, 2011 for eight other real estate owned (“OREO”) properties with contractual principal balances totaling $3.1 million. The second closing completed the disposition of the loans transferred to the held for sale loan pool at June 30, 2011. First Financial will record a gain on the sale of the bulk loan pool totaling approximately $20 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The strategy was announced on July 18, 2011, when First Financial determined that it would reclassify $155.3 million (book value) of certain nonperforming and performing loans to loans held for sale, effective June 30, 2011, and that it was pursuing loan sale alternatives with the intent of disposing of these assets. The loans transferred to the bulk sale pool had an aggregate contractual principal balance of $202.2 million at June 30, 2011 and were written-down to an estimated fair value of $60.3 million at that time. On September 30, 2011, First Financial completed the sale of its managing general insurance agency subsidiary, Kimbrell to Burns & Wilcox, Ltd., a Kaufman Financial Group company (“Burns & Wilcox”). Burns & Wilcox acquired substantially all of the assets of Kimbrell in exchange for cash. In addition, there is a provision for a potential earn-out payable over two years based on specific annual growth goals. On May 26, 2011, First Financial entered into a definitive agreement with Hub International, LLC. (“Hub”) whereby Hub agreed to acquire all of the stock of First Southeast. On June 1, 2011, First Financial completed the stock sale in exchange for $38.0 million in cash. First Financial will receive no additional consideration from the sale of First Southeast. 4 Geographic Locations and Employees At September 30, 2011, First Financial’s primary subsidiary, First Federal, operated through 65 financial centerslocated throughout coastal South Carolina as well as in the Florence, South Carolina and Wilmington, North Carolina markets. First Southeast Investors operated from 25 locations, of which 20 are located in First Federal financial centers, and the other offices are predominantly in the upstate region of South Carolina. In aggregate, First Financial subsidiaries employ 876 full-time equivalent employees. Full-time employees and certain part-time employees are eligible to participate in a comprehensive benefits program and are not represented by a collective bargaining agreement. First Financial considers its employee relations to be excellent. Competition The financial services industry is highly competitive. First Federal faces competition in attracting deposits and originating loans based upon a variety of factors including: • interest rates offered on deposit accounts; • interest rates charged on loans; • credit and service charges; • the quality of services rendered; • the convenience of banking facilities and other delivery channels; and • in the case of loans to large commercial borrowers, relative lending limits. Direct competition for deposits and loans principally comes from commercial banks, community banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, brokerage firms, insurance companies, finance companies, mortgage-banking companies and other financial institutions that may not have a physical presence in First Financial’s market areas but solicit business via the Internet and other means. The banking industry continues to consolidate, which presents opportunities for First Financial to gain new business. However, consolidation may further intensify competition if additional financial services companies enter the market areas. Asset size as well as a greater geographic footprint gives larger banks certain advantages in competing for business from large corporate customers. These advantages include higher lending limits and the ability to offer services in other areas of South Carolina and North Carolina. As a result, First Financial concentratesits efforts on small to medium-sized businesses and individuals. First Financial believesit competes effectively in this market segment by offering quality and personalized service. Charter Conversion In July 2011, First Federal filed an application with the South Carolina State Board of Financial Institutions (the “State Board”) to convert from a federal savings and loan association to a South Carolina chartered commercial bank. The decision to convert charters was made in light of statutory changes contained in the Dodd-Frank Act, which removed most of the advantages of a federal savings and loan charter. First Federal has received approval from the State Board, subject to First Financial converting from a savings and loan holding company to a bank holding company. As part of the charter conversion, First Financial will file an application in December 2011 with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Available Information All of First Financial’s electronic filings with the SEC, including its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible at no cost on First Financial’s web site, www.firstfinancialholdings.com. First Financial’s filings are also available through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, First Financial makes available its Corporate Governance Principles, its Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy, its Luxury Expenditure Policy, and the charters for the Nominating and Corporate Governance, Audit, Compensation Benefits and Executive Committees of the Board of Directors on its website. The information on First Financial’s website does not constitute a part of this report. Regulation and Supervision General First Financial is a savings and loan holding company which, effective July 21, 2011, is required by federal law to report to, and otherwise comply with the rules and regulations of, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) as successor to the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”). First Federal, is a federal savings and loan association which, effective July 21, 2011, is subject to the supervision of and regular inspection by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, (“OCC”) as successor to the OTS, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), as its insurer of deposits. Both entities are subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by their respective banking regulators. First Federal must file periodic reports with the OCC and the FDIC concerning its activities and financial condition in addition to obtaining regulatory approvals prior to 5 entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other financial institutions. In addition, effective March 31, 2012, First Financial will be required to file reports concerning holding company activities with the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC conduct periodic examinations to test safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory requirements. This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which a federal savings association and a savings and loan holding company can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives federal banking regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. The Federal Reserve and OCC have extensive enforcement authority including, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties; issue consent, cease-and-desist, or removal orders; and initiate injunctive actions. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations, and unsafe or unsound practices. Other actions or inaction may provide the basis for enforcement action, including misleading or untimely reports filed with regulators. Public disclosure of final enforcement actions is required. Federal law provides that savings institutions are generally subject to the national bank limit on loans to one borrower. A savings institution may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be lent, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if secured by specified readily marketable collateral. At September 30, 2011, First Federal’s limit on loans to one borrower and the borrower’s related entities under applicable regulations was $47.4 million, and there were no borrowing relationships with outstanding balances in excess of this amount. Additionally, all savings institutions are required to pay assessments to the OCC, and prior to July 21, 2011 to the OTS, to fund operations of the agency. The general assessments, paid on a semi-annual basis, are determined based on the savings institution’s total assets, including consolidated subsidiaries, and other factors. First Federal’s annual regulatory assessment for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 was $603 thousand. Dodd-Frank Act On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in dramatic changes across the financial regulatory system, some of which became effective immediately and some of which will not become effective until various future dates. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will require many new rules to be made by federal banking regulatory agencies over the next several years. Uncertainty remains until final rule making is complete as to the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act, which could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole or on First Financial’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The following provisions have been implemented since the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted: • On July 21, 2010 the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance was made permanent and in November 2010 unlimited federal deposit insurance for noninterest-bearing demand transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions was extended through December 31, 2012. • In June 2011, Regulation Q was repealed, and beginning July 21, 2011 depository institutions are now permitted to pay interest on business demand deposits. • On July 21, 2011, the responsibility for supervising federal savings associations, including First Federal, was transferred from the OTS to the OCC and supervision of all savings and loan holding companies, including First Financial, was transferred to the Federal Reserve. • Effective with the June 30, 2011 measurement period, the assessment base for federal deposit insurance was changed from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated assets less tangible capital. Additionally, changes were made to the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) to increase the floor and eliminate the ceiling on the fund, which will generally require an increase in the level of assessments for institutions with assets in excess of $10 billion. • The Electronic Fund Transfer Act (“EFTA”) was amended by the Durbin Amendmentto, among other things, give the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers having assets over $10 billion and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. The new caps on interchange fees were effective on October 1, 2011. The following provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are still awaiting final implementation: • Centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, responsible for implementing, examining, and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws. • Create the Financial Stability Oversight Council that will recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity. • Provide mortgage reform provisions regarding a customer’s ability to repay, restricting variable-rate lending by requiring that the ability to repay variable-rate loans be determined by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions. • Implement corporate governance revisions, including with regard to executive compensation and proxy access by shareholders, which apply to all public companies, not just financial institutions. 6 Change in Control Federal law generally prohibits a savings and loan holding company, without prior approval from its federal banking regulators, from acquiring control of another savings association or its subsidiary, or acquiring more than 10% of the voting stock of any other savings institution or savings and loan holding company or controlling the assets thereof. Regulations also prohibit, among other things, any director or officer of a savings and loan holding company, or any individual who owns or controls more than 25% of the voting shares of such holding company, from acquiring control of any savings institution not a subsidiary of such savings and loan holding company, unless the Federal Reserve approves the acquisition. Activities Restrictions First Financial and its non-savings institution subsidiaries are subject to statutory and regulatory restrictions on their business activities specified by federal regulations, which include performing services and holding properties used by a savings institution subsidiary, activities authorized for savings and loan holding companies as of March 5, 1987, and non-banking activities permissible for bank holding companies pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 or authorized for financial holding companies pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (“Gramm-Leach Bliley”). If First Federal fails the qualified thrift lender test, First Financial may be required to register as a bank holding company and become subject to the significant activity restrictions and capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies (see “Qualified Thrift Lender Test” below). Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley) was signed into law on July 30, 2002 in response to public concerns regarding corporate accountability in connection with certain accounting scandals. The stated goals of Sarbanes-Oxley are to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the securities laws. Sarbanes-Oxley generally applies to all companies, both U.S. and non-U.S., that file or are required to file periodic reports with the SEC, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, such as First Financial. Sarbanes-Oxley includes very specific additional disclosure requirements and new corporate governance rules. It requires the SEC and securities exchanges to adopt extensive additional disclosures, corporate governance and related rules and mandates. Sarbanes-Oxley represents significant federal involvement in matters traditionally left to state regulatory systems, such as the regulation of the accounting profession, and to state corporate law, the relationship between a board of directors and management and between a board of directors and its committees. EESA and TARP In response to the financial crises affecting the financial markets and the banking system, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2009 (“EESA”) was signed into law on October 3, 2008 and authorized the United States Department of Treasury (“Treasury”) to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced the establishment of the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under TARP to encourage U.S. financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and to support the U.S. economy. Under the CPP, the Treasury made $250 billion of capital available to U.S. financial institutions in the form of senior preferred stock and warrants which qualify as Tier 1 capital. CPP participants are subject to a number of employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans in general and others which impose restrictions on executive compensation. On December 5, 2008, pursuant to the Treasury’s TARP CPP, First Financial issued and sold $65.0 million of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (“Series A”) and a warrant to purchase shares of its common stock to the Treasury. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The Treasury has been given authority to promulgate regulations under EESA and any new regulations implemented by the Treasury under EESA may be applied retrospectively to recipients of TARP funding under the CPP. In addition, the U.S. government could in the future pass new legislation which may have a similar effect. In either case, any new regulations or legislation may have the effect of imposing additional economic restrictions or obligations on First Financial under the TARP CPP, at least for as long as any of First Financial’s obligations under the CPP remain outstanding. FDIC Insurance Assessments The FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by FDIC-insured institutions, such as First Federal. It also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the insurance fund. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against savings institutions and may terminate the deposit insurance of individual institutions if it determines that the institution engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or is in an unsafe or unsound condition. First Federal does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of its deposit insurance. Deposit insurance premium assessments are based upon a classification system and are collected on a quarterly basis. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the prior assessment structure, which was based on insured domestic deposits, to one based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. The FDIC issued a final rule on February 7, 2011 that implemented this 7 change to the calculation but has said that the new assessment rate schedule should result in the collection of assessment revenue that is approximately revenue neutral, as the assessment rates have been lowered in consideration of the higher assessment base. The new assessment rates range from 2.5 basis points to 45 basis points and there is a separate insurance assessment for larger institutions (i.e., institutions with at least $10 billion in assets). At September 30, 2011, First Federal’s risk category assignment required a payment of nine cents per $100 of assessable capital. Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”) requires federal banking regulators to take prompt corrective action against any undercapitalized institution. FDICIA establishes five capital categories: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. Regulatory capital requirements for bank holding companies are evaluated using three capital measures: (i) leverage capital expressed as a percentage of total assets, (ii) risk-based capital expressed as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets, and (iii) Tier 1 risk-based capital expressed as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets. The following table presents the regulatory capital requirements for each of the five categories. Well Capitalized Adequately Capitalized Under Capitalized Significantly Under Capitalized Critically Under Capitalized Total Capital to risk-weighted assets1 >10% >8% <8% <6% Tier 1 Capital to risk-weighted assets1 >6 >4 <4 <3 Tier 1 Leverage2 >5 >4 <4 <3 Tangible equity to total assets N/A N/A N/A N/A <2% 1 Total Capital is comprised of Tier 1 Capital, a portion of the allowance for loan losses and qualifying subordinated debt. Tier 1 Capital is calculated as follows: total shareholders’ equity + trust preferred securities - goodwill - accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) - other intangible assets 2 Tier 1 Capital to quarterly average assets If the FDIC determines that an institution is in unsafe or unsound condition or that the institution has not corrected a less than satisfactory rating received in its last examination for asset quality, management, earnings or liquidity, an institution may be treated as if it were in the next lower capital category. A depository institution is generally prohibited from making capital distributions, including paying dividends, or paying management fees to a holding company if the institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Institutions that are adequately but not well-capitalized cannot accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits except with a waiver from the FDIC and are subject to restrictions on the interest rates that can be paid on such deposits. Undercapitalized institutions may not accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits. The federal banking regulatory agencies are permitted or, in certain cases, required to take certain actions with respect to institutions failing within one of the three undercapitalized categories. Depending on the level of an institution’s capital, the agencies’ corrective powers include, among other things: • prohibiting the payment of principal and interest on subordinated debt; • prohibiting the holding company from making distributions without prior regulatory approval; • placing limits on asset growth and restrictions on activities; • placing additional restrictions on transactions with affiliates; • restricting the interest rate the institution may pay on deposits; • prohibiting the institution from accepting deposits from correspondent banks; and • in the most severe cases, appointing a conservator or receiver for the institution. A banking institution that is in any of the three undercapitalized categories is required to submit a capital restriction plan, and such a plan will not be accepted unless, among other things, the banking institution’s holding company guarantees the plan up to a certain specified amount. Any such guarantee for a depository institution’s holding company is entitled to a priority of payment in bankruptcy. FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect First Federal’s operations, including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate banking, “truth in savings” provisions, and the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch. At September 30, 2011 and 2010, First Federal’s regulatory capital ratios were above “well-capitalized” standards. In accordance with the provisions of Dodd-Frank, effective March 31, 2012, First Financial will be required to calculate and report risk-based capital levels. Information concerning current capital adequacy guidelines for First Federal and upcoming guidelines for First Financial including their regulatory capital position at September 30, 2011 and maintenance of minimum average reserve balances by First Federal with the Federal Reserve is incorporated herein by reference from “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and 8 Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Standards for Safety and Soundness The federal banking regulatory agencies have prescribed, by regulation, guidelines for all insured depository institutions relating to: (i) internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; (ii) loan documentation; (iii) credit underwriting; (iv) interest rate risk exposure; (v) asset growth; (vi) asset quality; (vii) earnings; and (viii) compensation, fees and benefits. The guidelines set forth safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the OCC determines that First Federal fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the OCC may require First Federal to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. The OCC regulations establish deadlines for the submission and review of such safety and soundness compliance plans. First Federal is not aware of any conditions relating to these safety and soundness standards that would require it to submit a plan of compliance to the OCC. Qualified Thrift Lender Test All savings institutions are required to meet a qualified thrift lender test to avoid certain restrictions on their operations. This test requires a savings institution to have at least 65% of its total assets, as defined by regulation, in qualified thrift investments on a rolling monthly average for nine out of every 12 months. As an alternative, the savings institution may maintain 60% of its assets in those assets specified in Section 7701(a)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under either test, such assets primarily consist of residential housing-related loans and investments. A savings institution that fails to meet the qualified thrift lender test is subject to certain operating restrictions and may be required to convert to a bank charter. As of September 30, 2011, First Federal met the qualified thrift lender test. Limitations on Capital Distribution First Financial is a legal entity separate and distinct from First Federal, its financial institution subsidiary, and as such is not subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends. Funds for cash distributions from First Financial to its shareholders are derived primarily from dividends received by First Financial from First Federal. However, as a recipient of TARP funds, First Financial is limited to paying quarterly common stock dividend payments to a maximum of $0.255 per share unless a higher amount is approved by the Treasury and the Federal Reserve. This restriction will remain in effect until such time as the Treasury no longer holds its preferred shares. First Federal is subject to various general regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends. Any restrictions on the ability of First Federal to pay dividends will indirectly restrict the ability of First Financial to pay dividends. First Federal generally may make capital distributions during any calendar year in an amount up to 100% of net income for the year-to-date plus retained net income for the two preceding years, so long as it is well-capitalized after the distribution. If First Federal proposes to make a capital distribution when it does not meet the requirements to be adequately capitalized (or will not following the proposed capital distribution) or that will exceed these net income limitations, it must obtain OCC approval prior to making such distribution. The OCC may object to any distribution based on safety and soundness concerns. Transactions with Related Parties First Federal’s authority to engage in transactions with affiliates (i.e., any company that controls or is under common control with First Federal, including First Financial and its non-savings institution subsidiaries) is limited by federal law. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with any individual affiliate is limited to 10% of the capital and surplus of the savings institution. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates is limited to 20% of a savings institution’s capital and surplus. Certain transactions with affiliates are required to be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type described in federal law. The purchase of low quality assets from affiliates is generally prohibited. The transactions with affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances that are at least as favorable to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. In addition, savings institutions are prohibited from lending to any affiliate that is engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies, and no savings institution may purchase the securities of any affiliate other than a subsidiary. Sarbanes-Oxley generally prohibits loans by public companies to their executive officers and directors. However, it contains a specific exception for loans by financial institutions, such as First Federal, to its executive officers and directors when made in compliance with federal banking laws. Under such laws, First Federal’s authority to extend credit to executive officers, directors, and 10% shareholders (“insiders”), as well as entities such persons control, is limited. The law limits both the individual and aggregate amount of loans First Federal may make to insiders based, in part, on First Federal’s capital position and requires certain board approval procedures to be followed. Such loans are required to be made on terms substantially the same as those offered to unaffiliated individuals and cannot involve more than the normal risk of repayment. There is an exception for loans made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to all employees of the institution and does not give preference to insiders over other employees. 9 Community Reinvestment Act First Federal is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to encourage financial institutions to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operations of the financial institutions. These regulations also provide for regulatory assessment of an institution’s record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering applications to establish branches, merger applications, applications to engage in new activities and applications to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of another institution. The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 requires federal banking agencies to make public a rating of an institution’s performance under the CRA. In the case of a holding company involved in a proposed transaction, the CRA performance records of the banks involved are reviewed by federal banking agencies in connection with the filing of an application to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a bank or thrift or to merge with any other bank holding company. An unsatisfactory record can substantially delay or block the transaction. First Federal has a CRA rating of Outstanding. Consumer Laws and Regulations In addition to the laws and regulations discussed herein, First Federal is also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. While the list set forth herein is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, among others. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits from, making loans to, or engaging in other types of transactions with, such customers. Privacy Standards Gramm-Leach-Bliley modernized the financial services industry by establishing a comprehensive framework to permit affiliations among commercial banks, insurance companies, securities firms and other financial service providers. First Federal is subject to federal regulations implementing the privacy protection provisions of this Act. These regulations require First Federal to disclose its privacy policy, including informing consumers of its information sharing practices and informing consumers of their rights to opt out of certain practices. Anti-Money Laundering and Customer Identification Congress enacted the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (“USA Patriot Act”) on October 26, 2001 in response to the terrorist events of September 11, 2001. The USA Patriot Act gives the federal government powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing, and broadened anti-money laundering requirements. In February 2010, Congress re-enacted certain expiring provisions of the USA Patriot Act. Federal Home Loan Bank System First Federal is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Atlanta and Boston, which are two of twelve regional FHLBs that administer home financing credit for depository institutions. Each FHLB serves as a reserve or central bank for its members within its assigned region. It is funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB System. It makes loans or advances to members in accordance with policies and procedures established by the Board of Directors of the FHLB, which are subject to the oversight of the Federal Housing Finance Board. All advances from the FHLB are required to be fully secured by sufficient collateral as determined by the FHLB. At September 30, 2011, First Federal had $558 million of outstanding advances from the FHLB under an available credit facility of $1.3 billion, which is limited to available collateral. First Federal had the capacity to borrow an additional $254.5 million from the FHLB of Atlanta based on its available collateral as of September 30, 2011 and maintaining a sufficient ownership interest in the FHLB of Atlanta. As a FHLB member, First Federal is required to purchase and maintain stock in the FHLB of Atlanta and Boston. At September 30, 2011, First Federal had $35.8 million in FHLB of Atlanta and Boston stock, which was in compliance with this requirement. First Federal has received dividends on its FHLB stock and the average dividend yield for fiscal 2011and 2010 was 0.78% and 0.24%, respectively. There can be no guarantee of the payment of future dividends by the FHLB of Atlanta and Boston. Federal Reserve System The Federal Reserve regulations require savings institutions to maintain noninterest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). The regulations generally provide that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows: a 3% reserve ratio is assessed on net transaction accounts up to and including $71.0million; then a 10% reserve ratio is applied above $71.0 million. The first $11.5 million of otherwise reservable balances (subject to annual adjustments by the Federal Reserve) are exempted from the reserve requirements. First Federal complies with the foregoing requirements. 10 Other Regulatory Matters First Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous examinations by federal banking regulators, as well as the SEC, NASDAQ and various state securities regulators. First Financial and its subsidiaries have from time to time received requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning their business practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. Legislation is introduced from time to time in the U.S. Congress that may affect the operations of First Financial and First Federal. In addition, governing regulations may be amended from time to time by the respective regulators. Any such legislation or regulatory changes in the future could adversely affect both entities and they cannot predict whether any such changes may occur. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks, including those described below, which could affect the value of your investment in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described in this section, as well as any cautionary language in this report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our operating results and financial condition. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. A large portion of our loan portfolio is secured by residential and commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in residential and commercial real estate values could lead to additional losses, which may cause our net losses to increase and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial condition and results of operations. At September 30, 2011, $1.9 billion or 80.2% of our loan portfolio was secured by residential and commercial real estate properties. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations. The decline in residential and commercial real estate values due to the downturn in the housing market and weakness in the economy has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these loans and has increased the risk that we will incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. We originate commercial real estate loans for various purposes which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans and, if non-owner occupied, repayment may be dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial real estate loans may expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential mortgages because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. If we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral may be longer than for a residential mortgage loan because there may be fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As of September 30, 2011, our commercial real estate loans totaled $471.3 million or 20.0% of our loan portfolio and approximately 39% of these loans are owner-occupied. Construction and land loans totaled $139.6 million or 5.9% of our loan portfolio at September 30, 2011. Land loans include raw land, residential lot financing primarily for individuals, land acquisition and development loans and loans secured by land used for business purposes. Construction and land development loans are based on estimates of costs and value associated with the completed projects. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to accurately evaluate the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts and repayment is substantially dependent on the success of the finished project as well as the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and may incur a loss. Residential loans with high LTV ratios are more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined LTV ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. On occasion, there have been residential first mortgages originated under specific lending programs that allow borrowers to obtain up to 100% of the appraised value and finance closing costs, resulting in an LTV at origination of 100% or greater. At September 30, 2011, we had $88.3 million of residential mortgage loans originated with LTVs of 100% or greater. We generally require private mortgage insurance in order to reduce our exposure on loans with LTVs greater than 80% at origination. Our exposure is also reduced for loans guaranteed under Veterans Administration or Federal Housing Administration programs. Residential mortgage loans with an original LTV of 100% or greater, which were not guaranteed or did not have private mortgage insurance, totaled $55.1million at September 30, 2011. There was an 11 additional $167.3 million of loans with original LTVs between 80% and 100%that were not guaranteed or did not have private mortgage insurance as of September 30, 2011. At September 30, 2011, $369.2 million or 15.7% of our loan portfolio, consisted of home equity loans, and the risks associated with these loans, including the risk of higher rates of delinquency and defaults, will continue to increase if housing prices continue to decline. Certain borrowers currently having little or no equity remaining in their properties due to declining valuations. In addition, as of September 30, 2011, manufactured housing loans totaled $276.0 million or 11.7% of our loan portfolio. Manufactured housing lending involves additional risks as a result of higher LTVs usually associated with these types of loans. The values of manufactured homes decline over time and higher levels of inventories of repossessed and used manufactured homes may affect the values of collateral and result in higher charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our commercial business loans are originated primarily based on the identified cash flow and general liquidity of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower and/or repayment capacity of any guarantor. The borrowers’ cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use. In addition, business assets may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise, and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral value provided by the borrower and liquidity of the guarantor. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Additions to the allowance for loan losses may be required by increasing our provision for loan losses, which would cause our net income to decline and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial positions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; and • our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of impaired loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of real estate in our market area has been substantially affected by the current economic environment, increased levels of inventories of unsold homes, and higher foreclosure rates. As a result, property values have declined substantially and market appraisal assumptions continue to trend downward significantly. Slow housing conditions have affected some borrowers’ ability to sell completed development projects in a timely manner. If current trends in unemployment, housing and real estate market declines, and weaknesses in the economy continue, we may experience increases in delinquent loans, nonperforming assets, and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to record a higher provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If real estate values continue to decline, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The higher levels of delinquent and nonperforming loans and charge-offs resulted in increases in our provision for loan losses over the last three fiscal years. For fiscal 2011, the provision was $109.9 million, as compared with $125.2 million for fiscal 2010 and $66.9 million for fiscal 2009. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we will be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans, which could further adversely affect our results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will not sustain credit losses requiring additions to the provision for loan losses in excess of present levels The recent negative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets and the economy in general may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolios. 12 Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 and that have continued through 2011 in the global credit and securitization market shave resulted in unprecedented volatility and disruption in the financial markets and a general economic downturn. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have shown deterioration at our bank and at many other institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets, and financial institution and financial institution holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of financial institutions and their holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, significant new federal laws and regulations relating to financial institutions, including, without limitation, EESA and TARP CPP, have been adopted. Furthermore, the potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding, among other matters, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets, and the economy in general and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. Our business is predominately conducted throughout coastal South Carolina, as well as in the Florence, South Carolina and Wilmington, North Carolina markets; continuation of the economic downturn in our primary market area could negatively impact our results of operations and our financial condition. Because of our geographic concentration in Charleston, Florence, Hilton Head, and Myrtle Beach, South Carolina and Wilmington, North Carolina, as well as other areas in the southeast, continuation of the economic downturn in these markets could make it more difficult to attract deposits and could cause higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans were more geographically diversified. Adverse economic conditions in our primary market areas, including, without limitation, declining real estate values, could cause our levels of nonperforming assets and loan losses to increase. If the economic downturn continues or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. A continued economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. Our net interest income may decline based on the interest rate environment. Our profitability is dependent on our net interest income. Differences in volume, yields or interest rates and differences in income earning products such as interest-earningassets and interest-bearing liabilities determine our net interest income. We are exposed to changes in general interest rate levels and other economic factors beyond our control. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. Net interest income may decline in a particular period if: • In a declining interest rate environment, more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature, or • In a rising interest rate environment, more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets re-price or mature. Our net interest income may decline based on our exposure to a difference in short-term and long-term interest rates. If the difference between the interest rates shrinks or disappears, the difference between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly resulting in a decrease in net interest income. In addition to these factors, if market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable rate loans, thus reducing our net interest income. Also, certain adjustable rate loans re-price based on lagging interest rate indices. This lagging effect may also negatively impact our net interest income when general interest rates continue to rise periodically. We may not be able to adequately anticipate and respond to changes in market interest rates. We may be unable to anticipate changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control including but not limited to inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, monetary policy, and other changes that affect financial markets both domestic and foreign. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences, and the timing of changes in these variables. In the event rates increase, our interest costs on liabilities may increase more rapidly than our income on interest earning assets, resulting in a deterioration of net interest margins. As such, fluctuations in interest rates could have significant adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our mortgage operations provide a portion of our noninterest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of residential mortgage loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Ginnie Mae or Freddie Macand retain the servicing of sold loans. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors, which would decrease mortgage revenues in noninterest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of noninterest expenses associated with mortgage activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, other loan expense, and other costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, 13 our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. Further economic downturns may adversely affect our investment securities portfolio and profitability. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, we recognized $879 thousand in other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) charges associated with our investment securities portfolio, which was down from $2.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2010. These OTTI charges were determined based on anticipated adverse changes to the projected cash flows for each of the underlying securities caused by, among other things constant default rates, severity of losses, geographic property value reductions, projected collateral losses, a change in historical prepayment speeds, and a deterioration in the current level of subordination. We closely monitor these and our other investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities and the determination of any OTTI with respect to such securities is highly complex and involves a comprehensive process, including quantitative modeling and significant judgment. The valuation of our investment securities will also continue to be influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of SEC and and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, and default rates for specific collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMOs”) and collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”), rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in our CMOs and CDOs by selling them. Accordingly, if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of these or other investment securities have additional OTTI, our future earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. If we are unable to continue to attract or retain core deposits, to obtain third party borrowings on favorable terms, or to have access to interbank or other liquidity sources, our cost of funds will increase, adversely affecting our ability to generate funds necessary for lending operations, reducing net interest margin and negatively affecting results of operations. We derive liquidity primarily through core deposit (checking, savings, and money market accounts) growth and through the maturity, sale, and cash flows from both investment securities and loans. Additionally, we have access to borrowing sources on an unsecured and a collateralized basis for both short-term and long-term purposes including, but not limited to, the Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Reserve, and other correspondent banks. If these funding sources are not sufficient or available, we may have to acquire funds through higher-cost sources and our liquidity position could be significantly constrained. Although we currently have the ability to borrow funds on both a short-term and long-term basis as an additional source of liquidity, our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates may be negatively impacted if our ratings were downgraded from their current level, and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to us. If we have to issue shares of stock, they will dilute the percentage ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock and adversely affect the terms on which we may obtain additional capital. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments or to strengthen our capital position. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control and our financial performance. We cannot provide assurance that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, or if we do raise additional capital that it will not be dilutive to existing shareholders. If we determine, for any reason, that we need to raise capital, subject to applicable NASDAQ rules, our board generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of stock for any corporate purpose, including issuance of equity-based incentives under or outside of our equity compensation plans. Additionally, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or from the perception that such sales could occur. If we issue preferred stock that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Any issuance of additional shares of stock will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Shares we issue in connection with any such offering will increase the total number of shares and may dilute the economic and voting ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Our participation in the TARP CPP and other government regulations impose restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to pay or increase dividends, repurchase shares of preferred or common stock, and access the equity capital markets even if we desire to do so. First Financial is an entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from its subsidiaries. Accordingly, First Financial is and will be dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock. 14 The subsidiaries’ abilities to pay dividends are subject to their ability to earn net income and, in the case of First Federal, to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the subsidiaries were unable to pay dividends to First Financial, in particular First Federal, First Financial may not be able to pay dividends on its common or preferred stock. Also, First Financial’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. We entered into a securities purchase agreement with the Treasury in connection with the TARP CPP, which provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 5, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock we issued to the Treasury have been redeemed by us or transferred by the Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock to more than $0.255 per share or (b) redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or any trust preferred securities then outstanding (subject to limited exceptions). We also are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current on our dividend payments to the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant we issued to the Treasury, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Furthermore, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock at any time outstanding or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. In the future we may further reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we are unable or choose not to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock within five years from the issuance date, the cost of this capital to us will increase. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, or if we choose not to redeem the preferred stock at that time, the cost of this capital will increase on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $3.3 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $5.9 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity and our financial results. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities, have an adverse impact on our operations, and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. Effective July 21, 2011, First Financial became subject to Federal Reserve regulation and First Federal, in addition to being regulated by the FDIC as insurer of its deposits, became subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the OCC. Also, as a member of the FHLB, First Federal must comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLB. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareholders. First Federal’s activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit, and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results ofoperations. In addition, we have non-bank operating subsidiaries from which we derive income. First Southeast Investors engages in providing investment management services, which is also heavily regulated at both a state and federal level. Further, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the financial services industry could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in heightened regulatory scrutiny and in sanctions by regulatory agencies (such as a memorandum of understanding, a written supervisory agreement or a cease and desist order), civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. Any of these consequences could restrict our ability to expand our business or could require us to raise additional capital or sell assets on terms that are not advantageous to us or our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, such violations may occur despite our best efforts. Financial reform legislation enacted by the U.S. Congress, and further changes in regulation to which we are exposed, will result in additional new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has and will continue to significantly change bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and gives it broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Additionally, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. 15 Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the Congress of the United States of America. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. It is possible that additional legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, it is expected that such regulatory changes will increase our operating and compliance cost. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. Competition with other financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and grow our client base, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive and includes services offered from other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, other lenders, and institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. The financial services industry has and is experiencing an ongoing trend towards consolidation in which fewer large national and regional banks and other financial institutions are replacing many smaller and more local banks. These larger banks and other financial institutions hold a large accumulation of assets and have significantly greater resources and a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. In some instances, these larger entities operate without the traditional brick and mortar facilities that restrict geographic presence. Some competitors have more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition, and are able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than First Federal. In addition, competition has increased from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect other smaller institutions to try to compete in the markets we serve. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of the loans that we originate and the interest rates we charge on these loans. Additionally, these competitors may offer higher interest rates, which could decrease the deposits we attract or require us to increase rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations which could increase our cost of funds. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge as part of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Technological developments have allowed competitors, including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in the industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer’s audited financial statements conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner, or rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected because we are exposed to conditions or assumptions different from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, included in this document, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered “critical” by us because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future 16 events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, such events or assumptions could have a material impact on our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Our potential inability to integrate companies we may acquire in the future could expose us to financial, execution, and operational risks that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions may be dilutive to common shareholders and FDIC-assisted transactions have additional compliance risk that other acquisitions do not have. On occasion, we may engage in a strategic acquisition when we believe there is an opportunity to strengthen and expand our business. In addition, such acquisitions may involve the issuance of stock, which may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. To fully benefit from such acquisition, however, we must integrate the administrative, financial, sales, lending, collections, and marketing functions of the acquired company. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition, and our financial results may be negatively affected. A completed acquisition may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including our capital requirements and the accounting treatment of the acquisition. Completed acquisitions may also lead to exposure from potential asset quality issues, losses of key employees or customers, difficulty and expense of integrating operations and systems, and significant unexpected liabilities after the consummation of these acquisitions. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in a goodwill impairment charge, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the time frames we expect. In addition, ongoing compliance risk under the loss-share agreement with the FDIC is considerable and the event of noncompliance could result in coverage under the loss-share being disallowed, thus increasing the actual losses to First Federal. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative public opinion regarding our company and the financial institutions industry generally could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion regarding our company and the financial institutions industry generally, is in herentin our business. Negative public opinion can result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we have taken steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business. We are exposed to a possible loss of our senior management team and key employees. If we were to lose key employees, we may experience a disruption in our relationship with certain customers. We are dependent on the continued efforts and abilities of our key employees and our executive officers. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain our current key employees and attract new skilled people. Competition for the best people in most of our business activities can be intense, and we may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Many of our key employees have extensive customer relationships. Loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of customers if they were to follow that employee to a competitor. Also, as we continue to grow operations, our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage, and retain qualified middle management personnel. While we believe that our relationship with our senior management team, other key employees, and key producers is good, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. We are party to various lawsuits incidental to our business. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties such that the expenses and ultimate exposure with respect to many of these matters cannot be ascertained. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action are legitimate or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Our business continuity plans or data security systems could prove to be inadequate, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Our daily operations depend on the operational effectiveness of their technology. We rely on our systems to accurately track and record our assets and liabilities. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of our computer systems or outside technology, due to severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, criminal activity or other factors, could result in failures or disruptions in general ledger, deposit, loan, customer relationship management, and other systems leading to inaccurate financial records. This could materially affect our business operations and financial condition. While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations and financial condition. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors, news reports of trends, irrational exuberance on the part of investors, new federal banking regulations, and other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our normal business. Future sales of our stock by our shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our stock price to decline. Although our common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the relatively low trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Delaware and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy on our Board of Directors, and supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors. Our Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to federal banking regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the regulatory banking agencies. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions 18 could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 