Item 1A Risk Factors Item 2. Description of Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A (T). Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements In addition to historical information, this report contains predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include those listed under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report, and some of which we may not know. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks in this report in greater detail under the heading “Risk Factors.” Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our management’s beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this report. You should read this annual report on Form 10-K and the documents that we have filed as exhibits to this annual report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview We are engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil in Northern China. We have an arrangement with the Jilin Refinery of PetroChina Group to sell our crude oil production for use in the China marketplace. We currently operate 157 producing wells located in four oilfields in Northern China and have plans for additional drilling projects. In particular, through two of our subsidiaries, Song Yuan City Yu Qiao Oil and Gas Development Co. Ltd. (“Yu Qiao”) and Chang Ling Longde Oil and Gas Development Co. Ltd. (“LongDe”), we have entered into binding sales agreements with the PetroChina Group, whereby we sell our crude oil production for use in the China marketplace. We currently operate 4 oilfields located in Northern China, which include: Field Acreage(Gross developed and undeveloped) Producing Oil Wells Proved Reserves (Bbls) Qian’an 112 5,115 133 1,963,319 Daan 34 2,298 7 168,335 Gudian 31 1,779 6 62,533 Hetingbao 301 2,471 11 274,637 Organizational History We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on August 20, 1999 under the name Draco Holding Corporation. On March 29, 2004, we executed an Agreement for Share Exchange with Hong Xiang Petroleum Group Limited, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the British Virgin Islands (“Hong Xiang”), and the individual shareholders owning 100% of the outstanding common shares of Hong Xiang (the “Hong Xiang Shareholders”). Pursuant to the Agreement for Share Exchange, we issued 18,700,000 shares of our common stock to the Hong Xiang Shareholders in exchange for all of the shares of capital stock of Hong Xiang owned by the Hong Xiang Shareholders at closing, and Hong Xiang became our wholly-owned subsidiary. On June 28, 2004, we changed our name to China North East Petroleum Holdings Ltd. During 2004, we acquired a 100% ownership in Song Yuan City Hong Xiang Petroleum Technical Services Co., Ltd. (“Hong Xiang Technical”), and Hong Xiang Technical in turn acquired a 100% interest in Song Yuan City Yu Qiao Qianan Hong Xiang Oil and Gas Development Co., Ltd. (“Hong Xiang Oil Development”), which was engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil in the Jilin region of the PRC. As a result of the Yu Qiao acquisition discussed below, all operations, assets and liabilities of the Company’s subsidiary Hong Xiang Oil Development were transferred to Yu Qiao on March 19, 2007. Since Hong Xiang Oil Development and Hong Xiang Technical were no longer necessary elements of the Company’s corporate structure, and they were liquidated and dissolved. PetroChina Oil Leases Pursuant to a 20-year exclusive Cooperative Oil Lease (the “Oil Lease”), among PetroChina Group, Yu Qiao and the Company, entered into in May 2002, the Company has the right to explore, develop and produce oil at Qian’an 112 Oilfield. Pursuant to the Oil Lease, (i) PetroChina is entitled to 20% of the Company’s oil production for the first ten years of the Oil Lease term and 40% of the Company’s oil production for the remaining ten years of the Oil Lease term; and (ii) Yu Qiao is entitled to 2% of the Company’s oil production as a management fee. LongDe is a party to a 20-year contract with PetroChina Group entered into in May 2003, pursuant to which LongDe has the right to explore, develop and produce oil at the Hetingbao 301 oilfield in the PRC. Pursuant to such between PetroChina and LongDe, PetroChina is entitled to 20% of LongDe’s output in the first ten years and 40% of LongDe’s output thereafter until the end of the contract. As the controlling shareholder of Yu Qiao, the Company has the rights to extract and develop Qian’an 112 and other oil fields under contracts that Yu Qiao has entered into with PetroChina. These oilfields include the Daan 34 oilfield and Gudian 31 oilfield in Jilin Province. Song Yuan Technical Joint Venture On July 26, 2006, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with Wang Hong Jung (“Mr. Wang”), the president and a stockholder of the Company and Ju Guizhi (“Ms. Ju”), mother of Mr. Wang, to contribute to the increased registered capital of Song Yuan North East Petroleum Technical Service Co. Ltd. (“Song Yuan Technical”). The purpose of Song Yuan Technical is to acquire oil and gas properties and to engage in the exploration of crude oil in the PRC. The Company owns a 90% equity interest in Song Yuan Technical, and Ms. Ju owns the remaining 10% equity interest in Song Yuan Technical. Acquisition of LongDe In order to comply with certain PRC laws relating to foreign entities’ ownership of oil and gas company in the PRC, prior to March 17, 2008, Song Yuan Technical directly owned a 70% equity interest in LongDe, while Sun Peng and Ai Chang Shan, respectively, owned 10% and 20% of the equity interests in Long De in trust for Song Yuan Technical. On March 17, 2008, Song Yuan Technical additionally acquired an additional 20% equity interest in LongDe, of which it acquired a 10% of the equity interest in LongDe from Sun Peng, and 10% of the equity interest in LongDe from Ai Chang Shan. Accordingly, Song Yuan Technical now owns directly 90% of the equity interests in LongDe, with Ai Chang Shan holding the remaining 10% in trust for Song Yuan Technical. The acquisition of LongDe was made pursuant to the laws of the PRC. As a 90% owner of Song Yuan Technical, the Company effectively controls LongDe. Acquisition of Yu Qiao On January 26, 2007, the Company, through its 90% owned subsidiary Song Yuan Technical, acquired beneficial ownership of all of the interests in Yu Qiao from Ms. Ju. In consideration for such acquisition, the Company issued to Ms. Ju an aggregate of 10 million shares of its common stock (the “Acquisition Shares”), having a market value of approximately U.S.$3.1 million. However, on June 29, 2007, the Company, Mr. Wang and Ms. Ju entered into an agreement pursuant to which, among other things, all of the Acquisition Shares were contributed to the Company. In order to comply with certain PRC laws relating to foreign entities’ ownership of oil and gas company in the PRC, the former owners of Yu Qiao, Wang Pingwu and Meng Xiangyun, held 10%, and 20% of the equity interests, respectively, in Yu Qiao in trust for the benefit of Song Yuan Technical. The laws of the PRC govern the agreements by which the Company acquired Yu Qiao and by which the former owners of Yu Qiao hold equity interests in trust. See “Regulations Affecting Our Business” under “Risk Factors.” Subsequently, on March 17, 2008, Song Yuan Technical acquired from Meng Xiangyun the 20% equity interest which he had held in Yu Qiao. Accordingly, Song Yuan Technical currently directly holds a 90% equity interest in Yu Qiao, while Wang Pingwu continues to hold a 10% equity interest in Yu Qiao in trust for the benefit of Song Yuan Technical. Thus the Company, through Song Yuan Technical, currently effectively controls 90% of the equity interests in Yu Qiao, while the remaining 10% equity interests in Yu Qiao is effectively controlled by Ms. Ju. Oil and Gas Properties and Activities As at the end of 2007, the Company had a total of 157 producing wells, including 133 producing wells at the Qian’an 112 oilfield, 11 producing wells at the Hetingbao 301 oilfield, 7 producing wells at the Daan 34 oilfield and 6 producing wells at the Gudian 31 oilfield. There were 103 traditional sucker-rod pumping machines in operation. All of the Company’s crude oil production is sold to the Jilin Refinery of PetroChina Group. The approximate distance of each of the Company’s oil fields from the Jilin Refinery is as follows: the Qian’an 112 oilfield is four kilometers away, the Hetingbao 301 oilfield is three kilometers away, the Daan 34 oilfield is fifteen kilometers away and the Gudian Oilfield 31 is thirty kilometers away. PetroChina pays the Company a price per barrel equal to the international crude oil spot market price on the first day of every month. The price is FOB the Jilin Refinery. Sales Volumes and Prices The following table shows the Company’s annual sales volumes of crude oil for the last two fiscal years. 2007 2006 China (Bbls) Crude Oil 267,516 90,520 Proved Reserves As of December 31, 2007, total proven reserve was 2,468,824 barrels of crude oil. The Qian’an 112 Oilfield had proven reserve of 1,963,319 barrels. The Hetingbao 301 Oilfield had proven reserve of 274,637 barrels. The Gudian 31 Oilfield had proven reserve of 62,533 barrels, and the Daan 34 Oilfield had proven reserve of 168,335 barrels. Proved reserve estimates were made as of December 31, 2007 by Ralph E. Davis Associates Inc., an independent worldwide petroleum consultant based in Houston TX. Ralph E. Davis Associates Inc. conducted a study of each of the aforementioned oilfields in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles in conformity with SEC definitions and guidelines. The Company’s estimates of proved reserves, proved developed reserves and proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2007 and 2006 (restated) are contained in the Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Disclosures— Unaudited (Supplemental Information) in the CNEH Consolidated Financial Statements (Consolidated Financial Statements) under Item — 7 of this Form 10-K. Also contained in the Supplemental Information in the Consolidated Financial Statements are the Company’s estimates of future net cash flows and discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves. See Operating Results and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates under Item 7 of this Form 10-K for additional information on the Company’s proved reserves. The following table shows the Company’s annual average sales prices and average production costs. Production costs are costs incurred to operate and maintain the Company’s wells and related equipment and include cost of labor, well service and repair, location maintenance, power and fuel, transportation, cost of product, property taxes, production and severance taxes and production related general and administrative costs. Additional detail of production costs is contained in the Supplemental Information under Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 2007 2006 Qian’an 112 Oilfield Average annual sales price per barrel $ 70.03 $ 64.45 Aggregate annual sales $ 18,466,325 $ 4,686,747 Average annual production cost per barrel equivalent $ 10.5 $ 12.41 Hetingbao 301 Oilfield 2007 2006 Average annual sales price per barrel $ 70.03 $ 64.45 Aggregate annual sales $ 797,696 $ 442,466 Average annual production cost per barrel equivalent $ 16.05 $ 9.32 Daan 34 Oilfield 2007 2006 Average annual sales price per barrel $ 70.03 $ 64.45 Aggregate annual sales $ 177,231 $ 140,777 Average annual production cost per barrel equivalent $ 10.5 $ 13.32 Gudian 31 Oilfield 2007 2006 Average annual sales price per barrel $ 70.03 $ 64.45 Aggregate annual sales $ 40,817 $ 51,915 Average annual production cost per barrel equivalent $ 10.5 $ 13.32 Drilling Programs During 2007, the Company drilled 60 new productive wells at the Qian’an 112 oilfield, 5 new productive wells at the Hetingbao 301oilfield, 1 new productive well at the Daan 34 oilfield, and 1 new productive well at the Gudian 31 oilfield. Drilling Statistics The following table shows the results of the oil and gas wells drilled and tested: Net Exploratory Net Development Productive Dry Holes Total Productive Dry Holes Total Total 2007 0 0 0 157 0 157 157 2006 0 0 0 90 0 90 90 Properties and Leases The following schedule shows the number of developed leases, undeveloped lease and fee mineral acres in which the Company held interests at December 31, 2007: Developed Lease (1) Undeveloped Lease (2) Property Gross Net Gross Net Qian’an 112 2894 2316 1275 1020 Hetingbao 301 475 380 432 346 Daan 34 173 139 497 398 Gudian 31 130 104 238 190 (1) Developed Proved Acres means the acres assigned to each existing well. Total proved producing wells are 157. Each of the Company’s proved developed locations is assigned to approximately 300 square meters or 21.6 acres. (2) Undeveloped Proved Acres means the acres assigned to each proved undeveloped location. Each of the Company’s proved undeveloped locations is assigned to approximately 300 square meters or 21.6 acres. Marketing and Sales Currently, all of the Company’s crude oil production is sold to PetroChina’s Jilin Refinery. We do not expect the Company to have any other customers during the next twelve months. As restricted by contract with PetroChina, we could not sell any crude oil to any other customer. PetroChina pays the Company the International spot price as of the first day of each calendar month. Employees We currently employ 312 people, of which 63 are in management and 249 are site workers. All employees are located in Northern China. Most of them are highly educated, including senior engineers and specialists with bachelors or masters degrees. None of our employees belong to a union nor are any employed pursuant to any collective bargaining agreement or similar agreement. We believe that relationships with our employees are satisfactory. Regulations Restrictions on Foreign Ownership in the Oil and Gas Industry The principal regulation governing foreign ownership of oil and gas companies in China is the “Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by the Foreign Investors” issued by Ministry of Commerce, Foreign Investment Administration, Stock Exchange Committee (September 2006). Currently, qualified foreign investors cannot own 100% of an oil and gas company in China. The foreign investors’ equity holding ratios are subject to the approval of relevant government authorities. As we understand that any foreign investment in China should be subject to the approval of the Ministry of Commerce and approvals of other authorities (if applicable). As a result of the rules and regulations described above, we conduct our businesses in China through Yu Qiao and Wang Pingwu, who holds the equity interests of Yu Qiao in trust for the Company and LongDe and Ai ChangShan, who holds the equity interests of LongDe in trust for the Company. We have entered into contractual arrangements with Wang Pingwu and Ai ChangShan pursuant to which we believe, based on the advice of PRC legal counsel, that: • we are able to exert effective control over Yu Qiao and LongDe; • substantially all of the economic benefits of Yu Qiao and LongDe will be transferred to us; and • our 90% owned joint venture, Song Yuan Technical, has an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in Yu Qiao and LongDe to the extent permitted by PRC law. The Company further believes, based on the advice of PRC legal counsel, that: • the ownership structure of Yu Qiao and LongDe are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations; • the contractual arrangements among Song Yuan Technical, Yu Qiao, Wang Pingwu, LongDe and Ai ChangShan are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect; and • the PRC business operations of Song Yuan Technical and Yu Qiao and LongDe as described in this annual report, are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations in all material respects. We have been further advised, however, that there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not in the future take a view that is contrary to the above opinion of our PRC legal counsel. Environmental Regulations We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we carry on our business. Existing or future laws and regulations could have a significant impact on the exploration and development of natural resources by us. However, to date, we have not been required to spend any material amounts for environmental control facilities. The Chinese government strictly monitors compliance with these laws but compliance therewith has not had any adverse impact on our operations or our financial resources. Special Oil Fees In June 2006, the PRC government imposed a new regulation on all oil and gas producers. Under this new regulation, all oil and gas producers are subject to a mandatory special oil fee. The fee is calculated based on the per barrel selling price of crude oil received by the producer. If the selling price of crude oil received by the producer exceeds $40 per barrel, the special oil fee is 20% of that portion of the selling price that exceeds $40 per barrel. If the selling price of the crude oil exceeds $60 per barrel, the special oil fee is 40% of the portion of the selling price that exceeds $60 per barrel. As a result of this new regulation, the Company paid additional special oil fees of $2,857,376 to the PRC government during 2007. The Company will be required to continue to pay these special oil fees to the PRC government if the selling price of crude oil remains above $40 per barrel and these special oil fees will increase to the extent that crude oil prices continue to rise. Competition By virtue of our binding contractual agreements with PetroChina Group as described above, we have no competitor with respect to the extraction and production of crude oil from the oilfields where we operate. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks, and we want you to review these risks while you are evaluating our business and our historical results. Please keep in mind that any of the following risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report could materially and adversely affect us, our operating results, our financial condition and our projections and beliefs as to our future performance. As such, our results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business. Risks Related To Our Business Oil prices fluctuate significantly, and lower prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for crude oil. We sell to one customer, PetroChina, and we are paid a price per barrel equal to the international crude oil spot market price on the first day of every month. These prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The lower prices may reduce the amount of crude oil that we can economically produce. Among the factors that can cause fluctuations are: • The price and availability of alternative fuels; • disruptions in supply and changes in demand caused by weather conditions; • changes in demand as a result of changes in price; • political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and • domestic governmental regulations. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves. To maintain production levels, we must locate and develop or acquire new crude oil reserves to replace those depleted by production. Without successful exploration or acquisition activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline rapidly. We may be unable to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost. In addition, substantial capital is required to replace and grow reserves. If lower crude oil price or operating constraints or production difficulties result in our cash flow from operations being less than expected, we may be unable to expend the capital necessary to locate and develop or acquire new crude oil reserves. We may need to raise substantial additional capital, which may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. Although the Company currently has no plans to raise additional capital, the Company may need to raise additional capital to fully deploy wells onto its oilfields or to make acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient capital at all or on terms favorable to our stockholders or us. If we issue equity securities in order to raise additional capital in the amounts currently contemplated, the stockholders will experience immediate and substantial dilution in their ownership percentage of the combined company. In addition, to raise the capital we need, we may need to issue additional shares at a discount to the current market price. If the terms of such financing are unfavorable to us or our stockholders, the stockholders may experience substantial dilution in the net tangible book value of their stock. In addition, any new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fully develop or exploit our existing oil reserves, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Environmental and regulatory factors The oil drilling industry in China to date has not been subject to the type and scope of regulation seen in Europe and the United States. However, the possibility exists that new legislation or regulations may be adopted or that the enforcement of existing laws could become more stringent, either of which may have a significant impact on our mining operations or our customers’ ability to use oil and may require us or our customers to significantly change operations or to incur substantial costs. We believe that our operations in China are in compliance with China’s applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that China’s central or local governments will not impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures. Reserve degradation and depletion Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to exploit our oil reserves at competitive costs. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being drilled at costs comparable to those characteristics of the depleting oil field. We may in the future acquire oil reserves from third parties. We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we acquire, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Exhaustion of reserves at our existing oil fields and at oil fields that we may acquire in the future can also have an adverse effect on operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. Reserves – title; leasehold interests Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or assumptions underlying our reserve estimates could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control that could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated. The reserve information included or incorporated by reference in this report represents estimates prepared by our internal engineers and examined by independent petroleum consultants. Estimation of reserves is not an exact science. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, any of which may cause these estimates to vary considerably from actual results, such as: • historical production from an area compared with production from similar producing areas; • assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs and capital expenditures; and • estimates of future severance and excise taxes, workover and remedial costs. Estimates of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of expected future net cash flows prepared or audited by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and the variance may be material. The net present values referred to in this report should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil reserves attributable to our properties. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Acquisitions We are seeking to expand our operations and oil reserves in the regions in which we operate through acquisitions of businesses and assets, including leases of oil reserves. Acquisition transactions involve inherent risks, such as: • uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; • the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; • problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; • unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition or other transaction rationale; and • Unexpected development costs, that adversely affect our profitability. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of businesses or assets. Risks Related To Doing Business In China Our operations are primarily located in China and may be adversely affected by changes in the policies of the Chinese government. The political environment in the PRC may adversely affect the Company’s business operations. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since 1949 and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. In recent years, however, the government has introduced reforms aimed at creating a “socialist market economy” and policies have been implemented to allow business enterprises greater autonomy in their operations. Changes in the political leadership of the PRC may have a significant effect on laws and policies related to the current economic reforms program, other policies affecting business and the general political, economic and social environment in the PRC, including the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad, and foreign investment. These effects could substantially impair the Company’s business, profits or prospects in China. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increases of such disparities could affect the political or social stability of the PRC. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as governmental policies, could affect the financial markets in China and our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth over the past, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Since late 2003, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as raising bank reserves against deposit rates to place additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans and raise interest rates, in order to slow down specific segments of China’s economy which it believed to be overheating. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which the Company must conduct its business activities. The PRC only recently has permitted greater provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions thereof, and could require the Company to divest the interests it then holds in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, financial condition and prospects of the Company. Future inflation in China may inhibit economic activity and adversely affect the Company’s operations. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and within which some years with high rates of inflation and deflation, which have led to the adoption by the PRC government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has moderated since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the PRC government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby adversely affect the Company’s business operations and prospects in the PRC. We may be restricted from freely converting the Renminbi to other currencies in a timely manner. The Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency at present. The Company receives all of its revenue in Renminbi, which may need to be converted to other currencies, primarily U.S. dollars, and remitted outside of the PRC. Effective July 1, 1996, foreign currency “current account” transactions by foreign investment enterprises, including Sino-foreign joint ventures, are no longer subject to the approval of State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE,” formerly, “State Administration of Exchange Control”), but need only a ministerial review, according to the Administration of the Settlement, Sale and Payment of Foreign Exchange Provisions promulgated in 1996 (the “FX regulations”). “Current account” items include international commercial transactions, which occur on a regular basis, such as those relating to trade and provision of services. Distributions to joint venture parties also are considered a “current account transaction.” Other non-current account items, known as “capital account” items, remain subject to SAFE approval. Under current regulations, the Company can obtain foreign currency in exchange for Renminbi from swap centers authorized by the government. The Company does not anticipate problems in obtaining foreign currency to satisfy its requirements; however, there is no assurance that foreign currency shortages or changes in currency exchange laws and regulations by the Chinese government will not restrict the Company from freely converting Renminbi in a timely manner. If such shortages or change in laws and regulations occur, the Company may accept Renminbi, which can be held or re-invested in other projects. We may suffer from exchange rate risks that could result in foreign currency exchange loss. Because our business transactions are denominated in RMB and our funding and result of operations will be denominated in USD, fluctuations in exchange rates between USD and RMB will affect our balance sheet and financial results. Since July 2005, RMB is no longer solely pegged with USD but is pegged against a basket of currencies as a whole in order to keep a more stable exchange rate for international trading. With the very strong economic growth in China in the last few years, RMB is facing a very high pressure to appreciate against USD. Such pressure would result more fluctuations in exchange rates and in turn our business would be suffered from higher exchange rate risk. There are very limited hedging tools available in China to hedge our exposure in exchange rate fluctuations. They are also ineffective in the sense that these hedges cannot be freely preformed in the PRC financial market, and more important, the frequent changes in PRC exchange control regulations would limit our hedging ability for RMB. We may be unable to enforce our rights due to policies regarding the regulation of foreign investments in China. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation, and may be subject to influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. China’s regulations and policies with respect to foreign investments are evolving. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published. Statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation and discretion and to be modified, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. The uncertainties regarding such regulations and policies present risks that the Company will not be able to achieve its business objectives. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to enforce any legal rights it may have under its contracts or otherwise. Because our assets are located overseas, stockholders may not receive distributions that they would otherwise be entitled to if we were declared bankrupt or insolvent. Our assets are, for the most part, located in the PRC. Because the Company’s assets are located overseas, the assets of the Company may be outside of the jurisdiction of U.S. courts to administer if the Company was the subject of an insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding. As a result, if the Company was declared bankrupt or insolvent, the Company’s stockholders may not receive the distributions on liquidation that they are otherwise entitled to under U.S. bankruptcy law. Our acquisitions of LongDe and Yu Qiao were structured to attempt to fully comply with PRC rules and regulations. However, such arrangements may be adjudicated by relevant PRC government agencies as not being in compliance with PRC governmental regulations on foreign investment in oil and gas industries and such structures may limit our control with respect to such entities. PRC rules and regulations do not allow foreign investors to directly own 100% of a domestic oil and gas business. As such, we are ineligible to own directly 100% a domestic oil and gas business in China. We acquired Hong Xiang Oil Development through Hong Xiang Technical, our 100% owned subsidiary. We acquired a majority interest of LongDe and Yu Qiao through Song Yuan Technical, our 90% owned joint venture incorporated in the PRC. Our acquisition of Yu Qiao is currently provided through a trust arrangement with a PRC citizen designated by PetroChina, a government owned entity; pursuant to which they agree to hold 10% securities of Yu Qiao for the benefit of Song Yuan Technical in compliance with the applicable law of the PRC. However, pursuant to the trust agreement, they agree, among other things, to (i) vote the securities as directed by Song Yuan technical, (ii) deliver all payments, distributions and other economic benefits received with respect to the securities to Song Yuan Technical, (iii) not transfer or encumber the securities without the consent of Song Yuan Technical and (iv) to transfer the securities to Song Yuan Technical as soon as permissible under the laws of the PRC. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel that our arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities are valid under current PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will not be required to restructure our organization structure and operations in China to comply with changing and new PRC laws and regulations. Restructuring of our operations may result in disruption of our business, diversion of management attention and the incurrence of substantial costs. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. The PRC National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, and SAFE recently promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to file with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest over the assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any registrations or approvals required under these regulations or other related legislation. Furthermore, as the regulations are relatively new, the PRC government has yet to publish implementing rules, and much uncertainty remains concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements. It is unclear how these regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with these regulations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our ability to inject additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make distributions or pay dividends, or materially and adversely affect our ownership structure. If any of the foregoing events occur, our acquisition strategy, business operations and ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from raising finance to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated PRC affiliated entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated PRC affiliated entities are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. We may also determine to finance Song Yuan Technical, by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions to Song Yuan Technical must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our operating subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations would be negatively affected which would adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to expand our business. Risks Related To Corporate And Stock Matters Our authorized preferred stock exposes stockholders to certain risks. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.001 per share. To date, no shares of preferred stock have been issued. The authorized preferred stock constitutes what is commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock. This type of preferred stock allows the Board of Directors to divide the preferred stock into series, to designate each series, to fix and determine separately for each series any one or more relative rights and preferences and to issue shares of any series without further stockholder approval. Preferred stock authorized in series allows our Board of Directors to hinder or discourage an attempt to gain control of us by a merger, tender offer at a control premium price, proxy contest or otherwise. Consequently, the preferred stock could entrench our management. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected by the existence of the preferred stock. The market for the Company’s common stock is illiquid. The Company’s common stock is traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. It is thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies in its industry. Thinly traded common stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. The Company cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for its common stock will develop or be sustained. Our stock is a penny stock. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. Our stock is a penny stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”. The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. NASD sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules described above, the NASD has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the NASD believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The NASD requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. Stockholders should have no expectation of any dividends. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, as and if declared by the board of directors out of funds legally available therefore. To date, we have not declared nor paid any cash dividends. The board of directors does not intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future, but instead intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. All of our directors and officers are outside the United States, with the result that it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or any of our directors or officers. All of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons’ assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on our directors or officers, or enforce within the United States or Canada any judgments obtained against us or our officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Consequently, you may be effectively prevented from pursuing remedies under U.S. federal securities laws against them. In addition, investors may not be able to commence an action in a Canadian court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. If we or our independent registered public accountants cannot attest our adequacy in the internal control measures over our financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we may be adversely affected. As a public company, we are subject to report our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-K, as a requirement of Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The report must contain an assessment by management about the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, the independent registered public accountants of our company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the same. Even if our management attests to our internal control measure to be effective, our independent registered public accountants may not satisfy with our internal control structure and procedures. We cannot assure possible outcomes about the conclusion of the report and it could result in an adverse impact on us in the financial marketplace due to the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact to our stock market price. ITEM 