Item 1A. Risk Factors. The company is highly dependent on its key suppliers and supplier programs. The company depends on a small number of key suppliers. During fiscal 2006, products purchased from IBM and HP, the company’s two largest suppliers, accounted for 71% and 15%, respectively, of the company’s sales volume. The loss of either of these suppliers or a combination of certain other suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, a supplier may terminate the company’s right to sell some or all of a supplier’s products or change the terms and conditions of the supplier relationship or reduce or discontinue the incentives or programs offered. Any such termination or implementation of such changes could have a material negative impact on the company’s results of operations. Risks associated with the indirect distribution of the company’s products and services may materially adversely affect the company’s financial results. In addition to direct sales, the company markets and sells products and services indirectly through systems integrators, resellers and original equipment manufacturers. The company may, from time to time, derive a significant percentage of its revenues from sales through these reseller partners. The company’s financial results could be materially adversely affected if the company’s agreements with its reseller partners were terminated, if the company’s relationships with its reseller partners were to deteriorate or if the financial condition of its reseller partners were to weaken. In addition, as the company’s market opportunities change, the company may have an increased reliance on its reseller partners, which may negatively impact the company’s gross margins. There can be no assurance that the company will be successful in maintaining or expanding the sales revenue generated by the indirect distribution of its products and services. If the company is not successful, the company may lose sales opportunities, customers and market share. In addition, there can be no assurance that the company’s reseller partners will not develop, market or sell products or services in competition with the company in the future. The market for the company’s products and services is affected by rapidly changing technology and inventory obsolescence and if the company fails to anticipate and adapt to such changes and protect against inventory obsolescence, the company’s results of operations may suffer. The markets in which the company competes are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing needs of customers. The company’s future success will depend on its ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards. In addition, because the company maintains certain levels of inventory in order to ensure that the lead times to customers remain competitive, the company is subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence. If the company fails to successfully manage the challenges of rapidly changing technology and inventory obsolescence risks, the company’s results of operations may suffer. Market factors could cause a decline in spending for information technology, adversely affecting our financial results. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in information technology by end users could materially adversely affect the demand for our products and services. If the markets for our products and services soften or continue to soften, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents The company’s business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. As part of the company’s business strategy, the company seeks acquisition prospects that could accelerate the growth of its business by expanding its customer base, extending its reach into new markets and/or broadening the range of solutions it offers. However, acquisitions always present risks and uncertainties. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 