Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we cannot successfully implement changes to our information technology to support a changed business. Our current information systems environment was principally designed for the distribution business. We are in the process of converting legacy business information systems to a single Enterprise Resource Planning system. We committed significant resources to this conversion, which began in fiscal 2009 and is expected to be completed in fiscal 2010. This conversion is complex and while we are using a controlled project plan, we may not be able to successfully implement changes to and manage our internal systems, procedures and controls. If we are unable to successfully complete this implementation in an efficient or timely manner, it could materially adversely affect our business. Our profitability is partly dependent upon restructuring and executing planned cost savings. Recently, we initiated actions intended to reduce our cost structure and improve profitability. Specifically, we implemented the following restructuring actions over the past year: — restructured the go-to-market strategy for TSG’s professional services offering; — exited Asian operations of TSG; — reduced corporate overhead and realigned executive management; — closed corporate offices in Boca Raton, Florida and relocated corporate headquarters back to Solon, Ohio; and — realigned certain operational and administrative departments and streamlined certain processes to reduce costs and drive efficiencies. If our cost reduction efforts are ineffective or our estimates of cost savings are inaccurate, our revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted. We may not be successful in achieving the operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions expected from these 4 Table of Contents efforts, and may experience business disruptions associated with the restructuring and cost reduction activities. These efforts may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits that we expect. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. We are dependent on a single customer for a significant portion of our revenues. In 2009 and 2008 more than 10% of our revenues were derived from Verizon Communications, Inc. (“Verizon”). If we were to lose Verizon as a customer, or if Verizon was to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or was to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A further or extended economic downturn could reduce profitability and cash flow. We are highly dependent on key suppliers and supplier programs. We presently depend on a small number of key suppliers, including IBM, HP and Sun Microsystems. Our contracts with these suppliers vary in duration and are generally terminable by either party at will upon notice. The loss of any of these suppliers or a combination of certain other suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, a supplier may terminate the company’s right to sell some or all of a supplier’s products or change the terms and conditions of the supplier relationship or reduce or discontinue the incentives or programs offered. Any termination or the implementation of these changes could have a material negative impact on the company’s results of operations. We are dependent on a long-term product procurement agreement with Arrow Electronics, Inc. We have entered into a long-term product procurement agreement to purchase a wide variety of products totaling a minimum of $330 million per year until 2012 from Arrow Electronics, Inc. Our success will be dependent on competitive pricing, the availability of products on a timely basis and maintenance of certain service levels by Arrow. Prolonged economic weakness causes a decline in spending for information technology, adversely affecting our financial results. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services and continued growth in the use of technology in business by our customers, their customers, and suppliers. In challenging economic environments, our customers may reduce or defer their spending on new technologies. At the same time, many companies have already invested substantial resources in their current technological resources, and they may be reluctant or slow to adopt new approaches that could disrupt existing personnel, processes and infrastructures. Delays or reductions in demand for information technology by end users could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and services. In the last year, we have experienced weakening in the demand for our products and services. If the markets for our products and services continue to soften, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe that our plans to remediate our 2009 material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting, discussed in Item 9A of this report, will return us to the status of having adequate internal controls over financial reporting, we continue to be exposed to risks that those internal controls may be inadequate and we may have difficulty accurately reporting our financial results on a timely basis. An effective internal control environment is necessary for the company to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of its effort to prevent financial fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements and to remediate internal control deficiencies and material weaknesses. While management evaluates the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or NASDAQ. Any such actions could affect investor perceptions of the company and result in an adverse reaction in the 5 Table of Contents financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our access to capital. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In connection with the preparation of the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report and we describe other significant accounting policies in Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements titled, Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which are included in Part II, Item 15 of this Annual Report. In addition, as discussed in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements titled, Commitments and Contingencies, we make certain estimates under the provisions of SFAS No. 5 “Accounting for Contingencies,” including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to be incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The market for our products and services is affected by changing technology and if we fail to anticipate and adapt to such changes, our results of operations may suffer. The markets in which the company competes are characterized by ongoing technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing needs of customers. Our competitive position and future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards. If we fail to successfully manage the challenges of rapidly changing technology, the company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain favorable pricing. Our profitability is dependent on the rates we are able to charge for our services. If we are not able to maintain favorable pricing for our services, our profit margin and our profitability could suffer. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: — our customers’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; — competition; — introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors; — our competitors’ pricing policies; — our ability to charge higher prices where market demand or the value of our services justifies it; — our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain contract revenues, margins and cash flows over long contract periods; — procurement practices of our customers; and — general economic and political conditions. Capital markets are currently experiencing a period of dislocation and instability, which has had and could continue to have a negative impact on our business and operations. The general disruption in the U.S. capital markets has impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. These conditions could persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. Any such developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Credit market developments may adversely affect our business and results of operations by reducing availability under our credit agreement. In the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. On May 5, 2009, we entered into a new credit facility, as discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report titled, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the subsection titled, “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and in Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements titled, Financing Arrangements. Although we do not intend to borrow in the near term, if our lender fails to honor its legal commitments under our credit facility, it could be difficult in 6 Table of Contents the current environment to replace this facility on similar terms. The failure of the lender under the company’s credit facility may impact the company’s ability to borrow money to finance its operating activities. Disruptions in the financial and credit markets may adversely impact the spending of our customers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for our products and services depends in large part upon the level of capital of our customers. Decreased customer spending could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services and our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the disruptions in the financial markets may also have an adverse impact on regional economies or the world economy, which could negatively impact the capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions on the financial markets will restore confidence, stabilize markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. These conditions may reduce the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our products and services, or their ability to pay for our products and services after purchase. When we make acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate them or attain the anticipated benefits. As part of our operating history and growth strategy, we have acquired other businesses. In the future, we may continue to seek acquisition candidates in selected markets and from time to time engage in exploratory discussions with suitable candidates. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire targeted businesses or obtain financing for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. In particular, the integration of acquired technologies with our existing products could cause delays in the introduction of new products. In connection with future acquisitions, we may incur significant charges to earnings as a result of, among other things, the write-off of purchased research and development. Future acquisitions may be financed through the issuance of common stock, which may dilute the ownership of our shareholders, or through the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that competition for acquisition candidates will not escalate, thereby increasing the costs of making acquisitions or making suitable acquisitions unattainable. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: — problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; — unanticipated costs or liabilities; — diversion of management’s attention; — adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; — risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and — potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. For example, until we actually assume operating control of the business assets and operations, it is difficult to ascertain with precision the actual value or the potential liabilities of our acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions, or if the integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business or the acquisition. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business. Customers that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our current customers combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these customers. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. If two or more of our suppliers merge or consolidate operations, the increased market power of the larger company could also increase our product costs and place competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. We May Incur Additional Goodwill and Intangible Asset Impairment Charges that Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We review goodwill for impairment annually and more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired and that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business, significant negative 7 Table of Contents industry or economic trends, a significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period, and decreases in our market capitalization below the recorded amount of our net assets for a sustained period. As a result of significant declines in macroeconomic conditions, there has been a decline in global equity valuations since April 2008 that impacted our market capitalization. Based upon the results of impairment tests performed during fiscal 2009, we concluded that a portion of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were impaired. As such, we recognized total non-cash impairment charges in the first, second, and fourth quarters of 2009 for goodwill and intangible assets of $231.9 million, not including $20.6 million that related to the CTS business acquired in May 2005 that was classified as restructuring charges, as of March 31, 2009. The impairment charge did not impact our consolidated cash flows, liquidity, or capital resources. See Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements titled, Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and the subsection titled, “Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates & Assumptions” in Item 7 titled, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) for further discussion of the impairment testing of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. A continued decline in general economic conditions or global equity valuations, could impact the judgments and assumptions about the fair value of our businesses and we could be required to record additional impairment charges in the future, which would impact our consolidated balance sheet, as well as our consolidated statement of operations. If we were required to recognize an additional impairment charge in the future, the charge would not impact our consolidated cash flows, current liquidity, or capital resources. We are subject to litigation, which may be costly. As a company that does business with many customers, employees and suppliers, we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions, including, but not limited to, claims made by or against us relating to taxes, health and safety, employee benefit plans, employment discrimination, contract compliance, intellectual property rights, and intellectual property licenses. The results of such legal and regulatory actions are difficult to predict. Although we are not aware of any instances of non-compliance with laws, regulations, contracts, or agreements and we do not believe that any of our products and services infringe any property rights or licenses, we may incur significant legal expenses if any such claim were filed. If we are unsuccessful in defending a claim, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations and the operations of our significant suppliers could be subject to power shortages, telecommunications failures, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. While we maintain disaster recovery plans and insurance with coverages we believe to be adequate, claims may exceed insurance coverage limits, may not be covered by insurance, or insurance may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms. We may be unable to hire enough qualified employees or we may lose key employees. We rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the technology services industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled personnel. We also may experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. Members of our senior management team have left the company recently, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. Part of our total compensation program includes share-based compensation. Share-based compensation is an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. If the market price of our stock declines or remains low, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. In addition, because we expense all share-based compensation, we may in the future change our share-based and other compensation practices. Some of the changes we consider from time to time include the reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of share-based compensation. Any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. As a publicly traded company, our stock price is subject to certain market trends that are out of our control and that may not reflect our actual intrinsic value. We can experience short-term increases and declines in our stock price due to factors other than those specific to our business, such as economic news or other events generally affecting the trading markets. These fluctuations could favorably or unfavorably impact our 8 Table of Contents business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our ownership base has been and may continue to be concentrated in a few shareholders, which could increase the volatility of our stock price over time. We may be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The ultimate adoption of such standards could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although not yet required, we could be required to adopt IFRS which is different from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for our accounting and reporting standards. The implementation and adoption of new standards could favorably or unfavorably impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 