Item 1A. Risk Factors. In order to achieve our stated objectives, we need to engage in a substantial acquisition program that will require successful execution and efficient integration of such acquisitions. Following the divestiture of the assets and operations of the KeyLink Systems Distribution Business, our acquisition strategy will be potentially larger in scope and size than our previous acquisition strategy. We cannot assure you that we will successfully manage the challenges of a more aggressive acquisition program. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully and satisfactorily negotiate the terms of the acquisition. Our management may not be able to effectively implement our acquisition program and internal growth strategy simultaneously. Our failure to identify, consummate or integrate suitable acquisitions could lead to a reduced rate of revenue growth, operating income and net earnings in the future. We cannot readily predict the timing, size or success of our future acquisitions. We may not successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions. The integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. We may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating management and personnel from these acquired entities with our management and personnel. Failure to successfully integrate recent acquisitions or future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of information technology risks inherent in supporting a changing business. We may not be able to successfully manage the increased scope of our operations or a significantly larger and more geographically diverse workforce as we expand. Additionally, growth increases the demands on our management, our internal systems, procedures and controls. Our current information systems environment is principally designed for the distribution business. We may be unable to successfully support and implement improvements to our information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner as we now operate solely within the IT solutions business. Initially our profitability will be dependent upon restructuring and executing planned cost savings. If our cost reduction efforts are ineffective or our estimates of costs available to be saved are inaccurate, our revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted. We may not be successful in achieving the operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions expected from these efforts, and may experience business disruptions associated with the restructuring and cost reduction activities. These efforts may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits that we expect. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these efforts are not successful, we intend to undertake additional cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. We will be dependent on a long-term product procurement agreement with Arrow Electronics, Inc. We have entered into a long-term product procurement agreement to purchase a wide variety of products from Arrow Electronics, Inc. Our success will be dependent on competitive pricing and availability of products on a timely basis. We are highly dependent on key suppliers and supplier programs. We presently depend on a small number of key suppliers, including IBM and HP. The loss of either of these suppliers or a combination of certain other suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, a supplier may terminate the company’s right to sell some or all of a supplier’s products or change the terms and conditions of 4 Table of Contents the supplier relationship or reduce or discontinue the incentives or programs offered. Any such termination or implementation of such changes could have a material negative impact on the company’s results of operations. The market for our products and services is affected by changing technology and if we fail to anticipate and adapt to such changes, our results of operations may suffer. The markets in which the company competes are characterized by technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing needs of customers. The company’s future success will depend on its ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards. If the company fails to successfully manage the challenges of rapidly changing technology, the company’s results of operations may suffer. Market factors could cause a decline in spending for information technology, adversely affecting our financial results. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in demand for information technology by end users could materially adversely affect the demand for our products and services. If the markets for our products and services soften, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 