Item 1A. Risk Factors. Failure to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC could result in the delisting of our common shares by Nasdaq. Our common shares are subject to potential delisting from The Nasdaq Stock Market as a result of our failure to timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. On July 3, 2008, we received a Nasdaq Staff determination letter indicating that, as a result of our failure to file with the SEC our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2008, we failed to comply with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) which requires us to make, on a timely basis, all filings with the SEC required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We subsequently received an additional Staff determination regarding our failure to timely file with the SEC our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. On August 28, 2008, we attended a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (“Panel”), at which we presented our plan to regain compliance with Nasdaq’s filing requirement. The Panel subsequently determined to grant our request for continued listing, provided the Company file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2008 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 with the SEC, on or before December 30, 2008. We subsequently received an additional notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that our failure to timely file with the SEC our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending September 30, 2008 potentially serves as an additional basis for delisting. Upon the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filing of the two delayed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, we expect the Panel to determine that the Company has evidenced compliance with its decision and to grant the Company’s request for continued listing, however, there can be no assurance that it will do so. If we are unable to continue to maintain our listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market, it may become more difficult for our shareholders to sell our common shares in the public market, and the price of our common shares may be adversely affected due to the likelihood of decreased liquidity resulting from delisting. In addition, our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity financing, and attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation, would be greatly impaired. Furthermore, we would expect decreases in 4 Table of Contents institutional and other investor demand, analyst interest, market making activity and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers would be willing to execute trades with respect to our common shares. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we cannot successfully implement changes to our information technology to support a changed business. We may not be able to successfully implement changes to and manage our internal systems, procedures and controls. Our current information systems environment was principally designed for the distribution business and, although we are in the process of implementing a new information system, we may be unable to successfully support the implementation in an efficient or timely manner. When we make acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate them or attain the anticipated benefits. If we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business or the acquisition. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Our profitability will be partly dependent upon restructuring and executing planned cost savings. If our cost reduction efforts are ineffective or our estimates of costs available to be saved are inaccurate, our revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted. We may not be successful in achieving the operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions expected from these efforts, and may experience business disruptions associated with the restructuring and cost reduction activities. These efforts may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits that we expect. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. We are dependent on a long-term product procurement agreement with Arrow Electronics, Inc. We have entered into a long-term product procurement agreement to purchase a wide variety of products from Arrow Electronics, Inc. Our success will be dependent on competitive pricing, the availability of products on a timely basis and maintenance of certain service levels by Arrow. We are highly dependent on key suppliers and supplier programs. We presently depend on a small number of key suppliers, including IBM, HP and Sun Microsystems. The loss of any of these suppliers or a combination of certain other suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, a supplier may terminate the company’s right to sell some or all of a supplier’s products or change the terms and conditions of the supplier relationship or reduce or discontinue the incentives or programs offered. Any such termination or implementation of such changes could have a material negative impact on the company’s results of operations. The market for our products and services is affected by changing technology and if we fail to anticipate and adapt to such changes, our results of operations may suffer. The markets in which the company competes are characterized by technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing needs of customers. The company’s future success will depend on its ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards. If the company fails to successfully manage the challenges of rapidly changing technology, the company’s results of operations may suffer. Prolonged economic weakness could cause a decline in spending for information technology, adversely affecting our financial results. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in demand for information technology by end users could materially adversely affect the demand for our products and services. If the markets for our products and services continue to soften, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents While we believe that our plans to remediate our 2008 material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting, discussed in Item 9A of this report, will return us to the status of having adequate internal controls over financial reporting, we continue to be exposed to risks that those internal controls may be inadequate and we may have difficulty accurately reporting our financial results on a timely basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to remediate internal control deficiencies and material weaknesses and perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. As a result, we expect to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 remediation and compliance. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of the company may be adversely effected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We may be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The ultimate adoption of such standards could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although not yet required, we could be required to adopt IFRS which is different than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for our accounting and reporting standards. The implementation and adoption of new standards could favorably or unfavorably impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Capital markets are currently experiencing a period of dislocation and instability, which has had and could continue to have a negative impact on our business and operations. The general disruption in the U.S. capital markets has impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. These conditions could persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. Any such developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Credit market developments may adversely affect our business and results of operations by reducing availability under our credit agreement. In the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. If our lender(s) fail to honor their legal commitments under our credit facility, it could be difficult in the current environment to replace our credit facility on similar terms. The failure of any of the lenders under the company’s credit facility may impact the company’s ability to borrow money to finance its operating activities. Disruptions in the financial and credit markets may adversely impact the spending of our customers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for our products and services depends in large part upon the level of capital of our customers. Decreased customer spending could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services and our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the disruptions in the financial markets may also have an adverse impact on regional economies or the world economy, which could negatively impact the capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions on the financial markets will restore confidence, stabilize markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. These conditions may reduce the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our products and services, or their ability to pay for our products and services after purchase. Delays in filing periodic reports and financial restatements may adversely affect the Company’s stock price and ability to raise capital. We did not file our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 and this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2008 within the time periods required by SEC regulations. The delays in filing our periodic reports and related financial statements may harm investor confidence and negatively affect our stock price. In addition, the failure to 6 Table of Contents timely file such reports results in restrictions placed on us by the SEC to use certain registration statements, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 