Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain favorable pricing. Our profitability is dependent on the rates we are able to charge for our products and services. If we are not able to maintain favorable pricing for our products and services, our profit margin and our profitability could suffer. The rates we are able to charge for our products and services are affected by a number of factors, including: — our customers’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; — competition; — introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors; — our competitors’ pricing policies; — our ability to charge higher prices where market demand or the value of our services justifies it; — our ability to accurately estimate, attain, and sustain contract revenues, margins, and cash flows over long contract periods; — procurement practices of our customers; and — general economic and political conditions. Our profitability is partly dependent upon restructuring and executing planned cost savings. During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, we initiated actions intended to reduce our cost structure and improve profitability, including the following restructuring actions: — restructured the go-to-market strategy for TSG’s professional services offering; — exited Asian operations of TSG; — reduced corporate overhead and realigned executive management; — closed corporate offices in Boca Raton, Florida and relocated and consolidated our corporate headquarters with our existing facilities in Solon, Ohio; — realigned certain operational and administrative departments: — streamlined processes to reduce costs and drive efficiencies; and — implemented a new Oracle ERP software system for North American operations on April 1, 2010 to further improve operating efficiencies and reduce costs, replacing a legacy distribution IT system that required significant manual processes to meet its regulatory, management, and customer reporting requirements. If our cost reduction efforts are ineffective or our estimates of cost savings are inaccurate, our profitability could be negatively impacted. We may not be successful in achieving the operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions expected from these efforts, and may experience business disruptions associated with the restructuring and cost reduction activities. These efforts may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits that we expect. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from a single customer. In fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, 27%, 23%, and 12%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from Verizon. If we were to lose Verizon as a customer, or if pricing offered by our OEMs to Agilysys on sales to Verizon changed such that the gross margin earned on sales to Verizon was materially reduced, or if Verizon was to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or was to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, 4 Table of Contents results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. A further or extended economic downturn could also reduce profitability and cash flow. We contract with a small number of key OEMs and changes in their incentive programs could have a material impact on our results. We presently have contracts with a small number of key OEMs, including IBM, HP, EMC2, Hitachi Data Systems, and Sun Microsystems, Inc. (now owned by Oracle). Our contracts with these OEMs vary in duration and are generally terminable by either party at will upon notice. The loss of any of these OEMs or a combination of certain other OEMs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. From time to time, an OEM may terminate the Company’s right to sell some or all of its products and services or change the terms and conditions of the relationship or reduce or discontinue the incentives or programs offered. Any termination or the implementation of these changes could have a material negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The loss of the right to sell the products and services of any of the top three OEMs or a combination of certain other OEMs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition unless alternative products manufactured by other OEMs are available to the Company. In addition, although the Company believes that its relationships with its OEMs are good, there can be no assurance that the Company’s OEMs will continue to supply products on terms acceptable to the Company. Through agreements with its OEMs, Agilysys is authorized to sell all or some of the OEMs’ products. The authorization with each OEM is subject to specific terms and conditions regarding such items as purchase discounts and supplier incentive programs including sales volume incentives and cooperative advertising reimbursements. A substantial portion of the Company’s profitability results from incentive programs with the OEMs. These incentive programs are at the discretion of the OEM. From time to time, OEMs may terminate the right of the Company to sell some or all of their products or change these terms and conditions or reduce or discontinue the incentives or programs offered. Any such termination or implementation of such changes could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business. Customers that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our current customers combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these customers. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. If two or more of our suppliers merge or consolidate operations, the increased market power of the larger company could also increase our product costs and place competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. For example, in early calendar 2010, Oracle completed its acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (“Sun”), and we are Sun’s largest commercial reseller in the U.S. We are unaware of the totality of changes Oracle may make to Sun’s hardware business, and such changes may adversely affect us. The market for our products and services is affected by changing technology and if we fail to anticipate and adapt to such changes, our results of operations may suffer. The markets in which the Company competes are characterized by ongoing technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards, and changing needs of customers. Our competitive position and future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards. If we fail to successfully manage the challenges of rapidly changing technology, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to hire enough qualified employees or we may lose key employees. We rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, members of our executive team, and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the technology services industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled personnel. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. We also may experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. With rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment agreements with our employees and only our key employees are subject to non-competition agreements. The loss of key employees and members of our senior management team may be disruptive to our operations. 5 Table of Contents Part of our total compensation program includes share-based compensation. Share-based compensation is an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. If the market price of our common shares declines or remains low, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. In addition, because we expense all share-based compensation, we may in the future change our share-based and other compensation practices. Any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we cannot successfully implement changes to our information technology to support a changed business. Our legacy information systems were principally designed for a distribution business. We converted our legacy business information systems for our North American operations to a single Oracle ERP system on April 1, 2010. We committed significant resources to this conversion. This conversion is complex and while we used a controlled project plan, we may not be able to successfully implement changes and manage our internal systems, procedures, and controls. If we are unable to successfully complete this implementation in an efficient or timely manner, it could materially adversely affect our business. Prolonged economic weakness may cause a further decline in spending for information technology, adversely affecting our financial results. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services and continued growth in the use of technology in our customers’ businesses. In challenging economic environments, our customers may reduce or defer their spending on new technologies. At the same time, many companies have already invested substantial resources in their current technological resources, and they may be reluctant or slow to adopt new approaches that could disrupt existing personnel, processes, and infrastructures. Delays or reductions in demand for information technology by end users could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and services. In the last two years, we have experienced weakening in the demand for our products and services. If the markets for our products and services continue to soften, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In recent years, capital markets experienced periods of dislocation and instability, which have had and could continue to have a negative impact on our business and operations. The recent disruption in the U.S. and global capital markets has impacted, and in the future could impact, the broader financial and credit markets and reduce the availability and increase the price of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. If these conditions persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets, and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. Any such developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Credit market developments may adversely affect our business and results of operations by reducing availability under our credit agreement. On May 5, 2009, we entered into a new credit facility, as discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report titled, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources and in Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements titled, Financing Arrangements. Although we do not intend to borrow in the near term, if our lender fails to honor its legal commitments under our credit facility, it could be difficult in the current environment to replace this facility on similar terms. In the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that any lender, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features, and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. The failure of the lender under the Company’s credit facility may impact our ability to borrow money to finance our operating activities. Disruptions in the financial and credit markets may adversely impact the spending of our customers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Demand for our products and services depends in large part upon the level of capital available to our customers. Decreased customer capital spending could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services and our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, the disruptions in the financial markets may also have an adverse impact on regional economies or the world economy, which could negatively impact the capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers. There can be no assurance that 6 Table of Contents government responses to the disruptions on the financial markets will restore confidence, stabilize markets, or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. These conditions may reduce the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our products and services, or their ability to pay for our products and services after purchase. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An effective internal control environment is necessary for the Company to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of its effort to prevent financial fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements and to continuously improve and remediate internal controls over financial reporting. While management evaluates the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or NASDAQ. Any such actions could affect investor perceptions of the Company and result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline or limit our access to capital. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In connection with the preparation of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in Item 7 of this annual Report titled, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and we describe other significant accounting policies in Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements titled, Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. In addition, as discussed in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements titled, Commitments and Contingencies, we record a liability for commitments and contingencies when the outcome is probable and estimable, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to be incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we acquire new businesses, we may not be able to successfully integrate them or attain the anticipated benefits. As part of our operating history and growth strategy, we have acquired other businesses. In the future, we may continue to seek acquisitions. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire targeted businesses or obtain financing for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. In particular, the integration of acquired technologies with our existing products could cause delays in the introduction of new products. In connection with future acquisitions, we may incur significant charges to earnings as a result of, among other things, the write-off of purchased research and development. If we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions, or if the integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business or the acquisition. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Future acquisitions may be financed through the issuance of common shares, which may dilute the ownership of our shareholders, or through the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that competition for acquisition candidates will not escalate, thereby increasing the costs of making acquisitions or making suitable acquisitions unattainable. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: — problems combining the acquired operations, technologies, or products; 7 Table of Contents — unanticipated costs or liabilities; — diversion of management’s attention; — adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; — risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and — potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. We may incur additional goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges that adversely affect our operating results. We review goodwill for impairment annually and more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired and that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business, significant negative industry or economic trends, a significant decline in our common share price for a sustained period, and decreases in our market capitalization below the recorded amount of our net assets for a sustained period. We performed our annual goodwill and intangible asset impairment test as of February 1, 2010 and concluded that no impairment existed. Accordingly, we did not recognize any non-cash goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in fiscal 2010. However, as a result of a significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, there was a decline in global equity valuations during fiscal 2009 that impacted our market capitalization. Based upon the results of impairment tests performed during fiscal 2009, we concluded that a portion of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were impaired. As such, we recognized non-cash impairment charges in the first, second, and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 for goodwill and intangible assets totaling $231.9 million. This total did not include $20.6 million in goodwill and intangible asset impairment that related to the CTS Corporations (“CTS”), a business acquired in May 2005, that was classified as restructuring charges in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. These impairment charges did not impact our consolidated cash flows, liquidity, or capital resources. See Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements titled, Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Item 7 of this annual Report, titled, Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates & Assumptions in Item 7 titled, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — for further discussion of the impairment testing of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. A continued decline in general economic conditions or global equity valuations could impact the judgments and assumptions about the fair value of our businesses and we could be required to record additional impairment charges in the future, which would impact our consolidated balance sheet, as well as our consolidated statement of operations. If we were required to recognize an additional impairment charge in the future, the charge would not impact our consolidated cash flows, current liquidity, or capital resources. We are subject to litigation, which may be costly. As a company that does business with many customers, employees, and suppliers, we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions, including, but not limited to, claims made by or against us relating to taxes, health and safety, employee benefit plans, employment discrimination, contract compliance, intellectual property rights, and intellectual property licenses. The results of such legal and regulatory actions are difficult to predict. Although we are not aware of any instances of non-compliance with laws, regulations, contracts, or agreements and we do not believe that any of our products and services infringes any property rights or licenses, we may incur significant legal expenses if any such claim were filed. If we are unsuccessful in defending a claim, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations and the operations of our significant suppliers could be subject to power shortages, telecommunications failures, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. While we maintain disaster recovery plans and insurance with coverages we believe to be adequate, claims may exceed insurance coverage limits, may not be covered by insurance, or insurance may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms. 8 Table of Contents As a publicly traded company, our common share price is subject to many factors, including certain market trends that are out of our control and that may not reflect our actual intrinsic value. We can experience short-term increases and declines in the price of our common shares and such fluctuations may be due to factors other than those specific to our business, such as economic news or other events generally affecting the trading markets. These fluctuations could favorably or unfavorably impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our ownership base has been and may continue to be concentrated in a few shareholders, which could increase the volatility of our common share price over time. We continue to maintain a long-term product procurement commitment with Arrow. We entered into a long-term product procurement agreement with Arrow, which sets forth certain pricing and rebates, subject to certain terms and conditions. In addition, the agreement requires us to purchase a wide variety of products totaling a minimum of $330 million per year through fiscal 2012. If we do not meet the minimum purchase requirements of this product procurement agreement, other than for certain reasons that are not within our control, we will be required to pay Arrow an amount equal to 1.25% of the shortfall in annual purchases, which could materially impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If this agreement is terminated, adequate alternative supply sources exist and, therefore, it would not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our largest shareholder, MAK Capital, received shareholder approval to acquire up to one-third of our common shares, which could impact corporate policy and strategy, and MAK Capital’s interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Pursuant to the approval by shareholders of a control share acquisition proposal, MAK Capital has the right to acquire in the aggregate one-fifth or more, but less than one-third, of our outstanding common shares. What a significant shareholder might do in response to a particular decision of the Board could potentially affect the interests of the Company and the other shareholders, making this a legitimate inquiry for the Board in considering the range of possible corporate policies and strategies in the future and potentially influencing corporate policy and strategic planning. If MAK Capital increases its ownership as permitted, and the Voting Trust Agreement it entered into with Computershare were to terminate for any reason, MAK Capital would have a level of control that would enable it to effectively block transactions requiring under Ohio law the approval of two-thirds of the outstanding common shares, such as a business combination, or majority share acquisition involving the issuance of common shares entitling the holders to exercise one-sixth or more of the voting power of the Company, each of which requires approval by two-thirds of the outstanding common shares. MAK Capital might also be able to initiate or substantially assist any such transaction. Even with the limitations on MAK Capital’s voting power imposed by the Voting Trust Agreement, it would be more difficult for the other shareholders to approve such a transaction if MAK Capital opposed it, and MAK Capital’s interests may differ from those of other shareholders. We may be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The ultimate adoption of such standards could negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Although not yet required, we could be required to adopt IFRS for our accounting standards, which is different from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The implementation and adoption of new standards could favorably or unfavorably impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 