Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of certain significant risk factors that could potentially negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to continue to grow our business, which may adversely impact our results of operations. During the last five years, our total assets have grown from $2.23 billion at December 31, 2002 to $2.62 billion at December 31, 2006. Our business strategy calls for continued expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to open new branch locations, successfully attract deposits to existing and new branches, and identify favorable loan and acquisition opportunities. In the event that we do not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may not be able to manage our growth, which may adversely impact our financial results. As part of our expansion strategy, we plan to open new branches in our existing and target markets. However, we may be unable to identify attractive locations on terms favorable to us, obtain regulatory approvals or hire qualified management to operate new branches. In addition, the organizational and overhead costs may be greater than we anticipated. New branches may take longer than expected to reach profitability, and we cannot assure that they will become profitable. The additional costs of starting new branches may adversely impact our financial results. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on whether we can continue to fund our growth while maintaining cost controls and asset quality, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, such growth could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. The Company may require additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. The Company is required by Federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Company may at some point need to raise additional capital to comply with regulatory requirements, including requirements under the Bank’s agreement with the OCC, or to support continued growth. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside the Company’s control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure you of its ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, the ability to further expand its operations could be materially impaired. 10 Future issuances of blank check preferred stock may reduce voting power of common stock and may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights, powers and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors, including such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, powers and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board of directors without further shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the authorized shares of preferred stock and common stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Our exposure to credit risk, because we focus on commercial lending, could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. There are certain risks inherent in making loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks inherent in dealing with borrowers and, in the case of a loan backed by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Commercial loans are generally viewed as having a higher credit risk than residential real estate or consumer loans because they usually involve larger loan balances to a single borrower and are more susceptible to a risk of default during an economic downturn. Commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, which comprise our commercial loan portfolio, were 82.6% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2006. Construction and development loans, which are included as part of our commercial real estate loans, were 12.4% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2006. Construction financing typically involves a higher degree of credit risk than commercial mortgage lending. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely on the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction compared to the estimated cost (including interest) of construction. If the estimated property value proves to be inaccurate, the loan may be undersecured. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could cause an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge offs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Proxy contests and shareholder litigation may adversely effect our results of operations. An insurgent shareholder group conducted a proxy contest against our board of directors’ nominees in 2006 and we have reason to believe will do so again in 2007. Members of the same shareholder group commenced litigation against us in 2006 and 2007. These contests and litigation cause us to use resources, both in expense and in the time and attention of our management, which could otherwise be used in operating our business. Accordingly, our results of operations may be adversely effected. Adverse economic and business conditions in our market area may have an adverse effect on our earnings. Substantially all of our business is with customers located within Mercer County and contiguous counties. Generally, we make loans to small to mid-sized businesses, most of which depend on the health of the regional economy for their success. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Adverse economic and business conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and, consequently, adversely affect our 11 financial condition and performance. Further, we place substantial reliance on real estate as collateral for our loan portfolio. A sharp downturn in real estate values in our market area could leave many of our loans undersecured. If we are required to liquidate real estate collateral to satisfy loans during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings could be adversely affected. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease. In an attempt to mitigate any loan losses we may incur, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, and historical loss experience and delinquency trends among loan types. However, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty and we cannot assure you that charge offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. In addition, regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Factors that require an increase in our allowance for loan losses could reduce our earnings. Loss of our key personnel or an inability to hire and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. The loss of key personnel could have a negative impact on our banking operations because of the loss of their business development skills, lending expertise and community involvement, among other things. Our success also depends on the experience of our branch managers and our lending officers and on their relationships with the communities they serve. Although we have employment agreements with certain key personnel, our employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key personnel or attract the qualified personnel necessary for the management of our business. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred on deposits and borrowed funds. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience gaps in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. The gap is based on the maturity and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities for selected time periods. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce our net interest income. We are unable to accurately predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquisitions, which may adversely affect our business. We intend to consider future strategic acquisitions, some of which could be material to us and which may include companies that are substantially equivalent or larger in size compared to us. We continually explore and conduct discussions with third parties regarding possible acquisitions. As of the date of this report, we have not entered into any definitive agreement and we do not have any definitive plans relating to any specific acquisitions. 12 We will have to integrate any acquisitions into our business. The difficulties of combining the operations, technologies and personnel of companies we acquire include coordinating and integrating geographically separated organizations and integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds. We may not be able to effectively manage or integrate the acquired companies. Further, we may not be successful in implementing appropriate operational, financial and management systems and controls to achieve the benefits expected to result from these acquisitions. Our efforts to integrate these businesses could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as regulatory developments, general economic conditions and increased competition. In addition, the process of integrating these businesses could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our existing business and the loss of key personnel and customers. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the transition and integration of these businesses could negatively impact our business and results of operations if any of the above adverse effects were to occur. Further, the benefits that we anticipate from any acquisitions may not be obtained. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans and attracting deposits may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that we originate and the interest rates we may charge on these loans. In attracting deposits, we face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations and increase our cost of funds. We also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over us in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Government regulation significantly affects our business. The banking industry is extensively regulated. Banking regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors and the FDIC deposit insurance funds, not the shareholders of the Company. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB. The Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC and, as discussed under the heading “Regulatory Matters” in Part I, Item 3, is party to a formal agreement with the OCC. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The bank regulatory agencies possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements, which involve both quantitative measures of our assets and liabilities and qualitative judgments by regulators regarding risks and other factors. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements or comply with other regulations could result 13 in actions by regulators that could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or otherwise adversely impact operations. Such actions may include requiring us to increase our allowance for loan losses, requiring us to divest our interest in certain loans and limiting our ability to open new branches. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. Such changes may adversely affect us, including our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory spreads and impose additional costs on us. The Bank is also subject to a number of Federal laws which, among other things, require it to lend to various sectors of the economy and population, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. The Bank’s compliance with these laws will be considered by the Federal banking regulators when reviewing bank merger and bank holding company acquisitions or commence new activities or make new investment in reliance on the GLB Act. As a public company, we are also subject to the corporate governance standards set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and NASDAQ. Our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not achieve their intended objectives. Our system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance, and not absolute assurance, that the objectives of the internal control system will be met. The design of any control system is based, in part, upon the benefits of the control system relative to its costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of controls. In addition, over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. The design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of inherent limitation in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. In connection with management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2006, management identified a material weakness related to the risk rating process and the resultant determination of the allowance for loan losses and the provision for loan losses. You should see Item 9A, “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,” for additional information. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete. Our information systems are vulnerable to damage that could harm our business. We rely upon our existing information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including deposit and loan information, as well as various internal management functions. These 14 systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, network failure, improper operation by our employees, security breaches, computer viruses or intentional attacks by third parties. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems could adversely impact our operations, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 