ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only risks the Company faces. Additional risks that the Company does not yet know of or that the Company currently thinks are immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of the Company's common stock could decline. The Company's net sales and profitability depend on its ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in the Company's industry and to its growth strategy. The Company's business depends on its ability to continue to conceive, design, manufacture and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of its product offering. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for the Company's existing products will continue or what new products will be successful. The Company's current products may not continue to be popular or new products that the Company may introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for the Company to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for the Company's products, its failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of the Company's new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce the Company's net sales and profitability. Competition in the Company's markets could reduce its net sales and profitability. The Company operates in highly competitive markets. It competes with several large domestic and foreign companies such as Brunswick, Lowrance, Confluence and Aqualung, with private label products sold by many of the Company's retail customers and with other producers of outdoor recreation products. Some of the Company's competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company. In addition, the Company may face competition from new participants in its markets because the outdoor recreation product industries have limited barriers to entry. The Company experiences price competition for its products, and competition for shelf space at retailers, all of which may increase in the future. If the Company cannot compete successfully in the future, its net sales and profitability will likely decline. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to the Company's products could increase its costs. The Company's industry is susceptible to litigation regarding trademark and patent infringement and other intellectual property rights. The Company could be either a plaintiff or defendant in trademark and patent infringement claims and claims of breach of license from time to time. The prosecution or defense of intellectual property litigation is both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of the Company's management even if the claim against the Company is without merit. The Company could also be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. 5 Sales of the Company's products are seasonal, which causes its operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Sales of the Company's products are seasonal. Historically, the Company's net sales and profitability have peaked in the second and third fiscal quarters due to the buying patterns of its customers. Seasonal variations in operating results may cause the Company’s results to fluctuate significantly in the first and fourth quarters and may tend to depress the Company's stock price during the first and fourth quarters. The trading price of the Company's common stock fluctuates and investors in the Company's common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of the Company's common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of the Company's common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: · changes in financial estimates of the Company's net sales and operating results or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; · the timing of announcements by the Company or its competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions or financial performance; · fluctuation in the Company's quarterly operating results; · substantial sales of the Company's common stock; · general stock market conditions; or · other economic or external factors. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. A limited number of the Company's shareholders can exert significant influence over the Company. As of November 1, 2005, Helen P. Johnson-Leipold, members of her family and related entities (hereinafter the Johnson Family) held approximately 77% of the voting power of both classes of common stock taken as a whole This voting power would permit these shareholders, if they chose to act together, to exert significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. The Company may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of the Company's growth strategy, it intends to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with its mission and that will enable it to leverage its competitive strengths. The Company acquired Techsonic Industries, Inc. effective May 5, 2004, including, without limitation certain intellectual property used in its business, and on October 3, 2005, the Company acquired certain assets from Computrol, Inc. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into the Company's operations involves a number of risks including: · the acquired business may experience losses which could adversely affect the Company's profitability; · unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase the Company's expenses; · possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company; · possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; · difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase the Company's expenses; · diversion of management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage the Company's business operations; and · unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect the Company's profitability and financial condition. 6 The Company is dependent upon certain key members of management. The Company's success will depend to a significant degree on the abilities and efforts of its senior management. The Company's success will depend on its ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, marketing, technical and sales personnel. These people are in high demand and often have competing employment opportunities. The labor market for skilled employees is highly competitive due to limited supply, and the Company may lose key employees or be forced to increase their compensation. Employee turnover could significantly increase the Company's training and other related employee costs. The loss of key personnel, or the failure to attract additional personnel, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations and on the value of its securities. Sources of and fluctuations in market prices of raw materials can affect the Company's operating results. The primary raw materials used by the Company are metals, resins and packaging materials. These materials are generally available from a number of suppliers, but the Company has chosen to concentrate its sourcing with a limited number of vendors for each commodity or purchased component. The Company believes its sources of raw materials are reliable and adequate for its needs. However, the development of future sourcing issues related to the availability of these materials as well as significant fluctuations in the market prices of these materials may have an adverse affect on the Company’s financial results. The Company is subject to environmental and safety regulations. The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and other legal requirements related to the generation, storage, transport, treatment and disposal of materials as a result of its manufacturing and assembly operations. These laws include the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (as amended), the Clean Air Act (as amended) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (as amended). The Company believes that its existing environmental management system is adequate and it has no current plans for substantial capital expenditures in the environmental area. The Company does not currently anticipate any material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of compliance with federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws or other legal requirements. However, risk of environmental liability and changes associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of the Company’s business and there is no assurance that material liabilities or changes could not arise. The Company's debt covenants may limit its ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. The Company's credit agreement includes provisions that place limitations on a number of the Company's activities, including its ability to: · incur additional debt; · create liens on its assets or make guarantees; · make certain investments or loans; · pay dividends; or · dispose of or sell assets or enter into a merger or similar transaction. These debt covenants could restrict the Company's ability to pursue opportunities to expand its business operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 