ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our future business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to our consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design, manufacture and market new products and upon continued market acceptance of our product offering. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or what new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we may introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. 5 Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with several large domestic and foreign companies such as Brunswick, Lowrance, Confluence and Aqualung/U.S. Divers, with private label products sold by many of our retail customers and with other producers of outdoor recreation products. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, stronger brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the outdoor recreation product industries have limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products, and competition for shelf space at retailers, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. General economic conditions affect the Company’s results. Our revenues are affected by economic conditions and consumer confidence worldwide, but especially in the United States and Europe. In times of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to defer expenditures for discretionary items, which affects demand for our products. Moreover, our businesses are cyclical in nature, and their success is dependent upon favorable economic conditions, the overall level of consumer confidence and discretionary income levels. Any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions that diminish consumer confidence or discretionary income can reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial results including the potential for future impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets. The impact of weak consumer credit markets; corporate restructurings; layoffs; declines in the value of investments and residential real estate; higher fuel prices and increases in federal and state taxation all can negatively affect our operating results. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. Our industry is susceptible to litigation regarding trademark and patent infringement and other intellectual property rights. We could be either a plaintiff or defendant in trademark and patent infringement claims and claims of breach of license from time to time. The prosecution or defense of intellectual property litigation is both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management even if the claim or defense against us is without merit. We could also be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. Furthermore, we may rely on trade secret law to protect technologies and proprietary information that we cannot or have chosen not to patent. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. Although we attempt to maintain protection through confidentiality agreements with necessary personnel, contractors and consultants, we cannot guarantee that such contracts will not be breached. Further, confidentiality agreements may conflict with other agreements which personnel, contractors and consultants signed with prior employers or clients. In the event of a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our trade secret protection. Litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management’s attention away from business. 6 Impairment charges could reduce our profitability. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. Various uncertainties, including changes in consumer preferences, deterioration in the political environment, continued adverse conditions in the capital markets or changes in general economic conditions could impact the expected cash flows to be generated by an intangible asset or group of intangible assets, and may result in an impairment of those assets. Although any such impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, any impairment of our intangible assets could materially increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. Sales of our products are seasonal, which causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Sales of our products are seasonal. Historically, our net sales and profitability have peaked in the second and third fiscal quarters due to the buying patterns of our customers. Seasonal variations in operating results may cause our results to fluctuate significantly in the first and fourth quarters and may depress our stock price during the first and fourth quarters. The trading price of shares of our common stock fluctuates and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: ● the timing of our announcements or those of our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions or financial performance; ● fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; ● substantial sales of our common stock; ● general stock market conditions; or ● other economic or external factors. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. A limited number of our shareholders can exert significant influence over the Company. As of December 1, 2009, Helen P. Johnson-Leipold, members of her family and related entities (hereinafter the Johnson Family), held approximately 78% of the voting power of both classes of our common stock taken as a whole. This voting power would permit these shareholders, if they chose to act together, to exert significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. Moreover, certain members of the Johnson Family have entered into a voting trust agreement covering approximately 85% of outstanding class B shares. This voting trust agreement would permit these shareholders, if they continue to choose to act together, to exert significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and that will enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. Over the past three fiscal years we have acquired: ● Seemann Sub GmbH & Co. KG on April 2, 2007, including, without limitation, certain intellectual property used in its business; ● Geonav S.r.l. on November 16, 2007, including, without limitation, certain intellectual property used in its business; and 7 ● Navicontrol S.r.l. on February 6, 2009, including, without limitation, certain intellectual property used in its business. Risks associated with integrating strategic acquisitions include: ● the acquired business may experience losses which could adversely affect our profitability; ● unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; ● possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company; ● possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; ● difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses; ● diversion of our management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our other business operations; and ● unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. We are dependent upon certain key members of management. Our success will depend to a significant degree on the abilities and efforts of our senior management. Moreover, our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, marketing, technical and sales personnel. These people are in high demand and often have competing employment opportunities. The labor market for skilled employees is highly competitive and we may lose key employees or be forced to increase their compensation to retain these people. Employee turnover could significantly increase our training and other related employee costs. The loss of key personnel, or the failure to attract qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Sources of and fluctuations in market prices of raw materials can affect our operating results. The primary raw materials we use are metals, resins and packaging materials. These materials are generally available from a number of suppliers, but we have chosen to concentrate our sourcing with a limited number of vendors for each commodity or purchased component. We believe our sources of raw materials are reliable and adequate for our needs. However, the development of future sourcing issues related to the availability of these materials as well as significant fluctuations in the market prices of these materials may have an adverse affect on our financial results. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. We have significant foreign operations, for which the functional currencies are denominated primarily in euros, Swiss francs, Japanese yen and Canadian dollars. As the values of the currencies of the foreign countries in which we have operations increase or decrease relative to the U.S. dollar, the sales, expenses, profits, losses, assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, as reported in our consolidated financial statements, increase or decrease, accordingly. Approximately 27% of our revenues for the year ended October 2, 2009 were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Approximately 16% were denominated in euros, with the remaining 11% denominated in various other foreign currencies. We may mitigate a portion of the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies through the purchase of foreign currency swaps, forward contracts and options to hedge known commitments, primarily for purchases of inventory and other assets denominated in foreign currencies or to reduce the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on foreign currency borrowings. We are subject to environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and other legal requirements related to the generation, storage, transport, treatment and disposal of materials as a result of our manufacturing and assembly operations. These laws include the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (as amended), the Clean Air Act (as amended) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (as amended). We believe that our existing environmental management system is adequate and we have no current plans for substantial capital expenditures in the environmental area. We do not currently anticipate any material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of compliance with federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws or other legal requirements. However, risk of environmental liability and changes associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business and there is no assurance that material liabilities or changes would not arise. 8 We rely on our credit facility to provide us with sufficient working capital to operate our business. Historically, we have relied upon our existing credit facilities to provide us with adequate working capital to operate our business. The availability of borrowing amounts under our credit facilities are dependent upon our compliance with the debt covenants set forth in the facilities. Violation of those covenants, whether as a result of incurring operating losses or otherwise, could result in our lenders restricting or terminating our borrowing ability under our credit facilities. The availability of borrowing amounts under our revolving credit facility is dependent upon the amount and quality of the accounts receivable and inventory collateralizing the revolving credit facility. The bankruptcy of a major customer could have a significant negative impact on the availability of borrowing amounts under our revolving credit facility. If our lenders reduce or terminate our access to amounts under our credit facilities, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our working capital needs and/or we may need to secure additional capital or financing to fund our working capital requirements or to repay outstanding debt under our credit facilities. We can make no assurance that we will be successful in ensuring our availability to amounts under our credit facilities or in connection with raising additional capital and that any amount, if raised, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements. If we are not able to maintain our borrowing availability under our credit facilities and/or raise additional capital when needed, we may be forced to sharply curtail our efforts to manufacture and promote the sale of our products or to curtail our operations. Ultimately, we may be forced to cease operations. Our debt covenants may limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Our credit facilities and certain other of our debt instruments include limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: ● incur additional debt; ● create liens on our assets or make guarantees; ● make certain investments or loans; ● pay dividends; or ● dispose of or sell assets or enter into a merger or similar transaction. These debt covenants could restrict our ability to pursue opportunities to expand our business operations, including engaging in strategic acquisitions. Our shares of common stock are thinly traded and our stock price may be more volatile. Because our common stock is thinly traded, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market in general or the stock prices of similar companies, which are exchanged, listed or quoted on NASDAQ. We believe there are 4,466,961 shares of our Class A common stock held by nonaffiliates as of December 8, 2009. Thus, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our shares of common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 9 ITEM 