Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are various risks involved in investing in our Company, some of which are described below. Investors should carefully consider each of the following factors and all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information that is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Merger Agreement with the City of Nashua Consummation of the merger with the City is subject to the satisfaction of various closing conditions which may or may not occur. As a result, there can be no assurance that the closing conditions will be satisfied or that the Merger will be successfully completed. As discussed previously, the Merger Agreement contains various conditions precedent and contingencies which could cause the merger not to be completed, including, among others, approval of the Merger by holders of not less than two-thirds of our Company’s outstanding shares of common stock and approval by the NHPUC of the transaction as being in the public interest. The City’s obligation to complete the transaction is also subject to, (i) there being no burdensome conditions imposed by the NHPUC in approving the merger transaction that would materially adversely affect the City’s expected economic benefits from the transaction, (ii) the City’s ability to obtain appropriate financing after all the conditions precedent (including those specified above and other customary closing conditions) have been met, and (iii) there being no occurrence of any events that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The financing contingency shall be deemed waived by the City if it could reasonably have raised $160 million through the issuance of 30-year general obligation bonds, with optional redemption after ten years, and a true taxable interest rate no greater than 6.50%. Furthermore, whether or not the merger is completed: • Management’s attention to ongoing business concerns may be diverted; • We may experience difficulties in employee retention or customer relationships; • We will incur significant additional costs and fees related to the pending merger; and • Acquisitions and other operational plans and initiatives that we would have undertaken in the absence of the pending merger may be delayed. In addition, the current market price of our common stock reflects a market expectation that the Merger will occur, and the failure to complete the merger would likely result in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. With respect to the joint motion filed by the Company and the City requesting NHPUC approval of the proposed merger, a finding that the “final determination of the price to be paid for the plant and property” occurred (in accordance with New Hampshire utility municipalization statute RSA 38, Section 38:13) as of the effective date of the New Hampshire Supreme Court decision affirming the NHPUC Order or as of some other date prior to the November 11, 2010 effective date of the Merger Agreement, could by operation of law, cause a two-year delay in any consensual settlement process between the parties. Such a two-year delay could make it difficult to restart the settlement process, possibly to the point of permanent impairment. RSA 38:13 provides that “within 90 days of the final determination of the price to be paid (emphasis added) for the plant and property to be acquired under the provisions of RSA 38:8 [agreed sale under threat of condemnation]...or 38:10 [condemnation taking]...the municipality shall decide whether or not to acquire the plant and property... by a vote to issue bonds...” RSA 38:13 further provides that “If the ratifying vote...shall be in the negative, no other action under this chapter shall be had during the ensuing period of 2 years.” It is the contention of the Company and the City that with respect to events occurring prior to the November 11, 2010 effective date of the Merger Agreement, including the March 2010 decision of the New Hampshire Supreme Court affirming the NHPUC’s July 25, 2008 order, there was no final determination of the price and, therefore, the 90-day period was not triggered. If this is ultimately determined to be incorrect, the Company and the City may be precluded, by operation of state law, from entering into a consensual settlement agreement for a period of two years and then only after obtaining a new majority public vote. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Water Utilities We are subject to federal, state and local regulations that may impose significant limitations and restrictions on the way we do business. Various federal, state and local authorities regulate many aspects of our business. Among the most important of these regulations are those relating to the quality of water we supply our customers. These laws require us to obtain various environmental permits from environmental regulatory agencies for our operations and to perform water quality tests that are monitored by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, or DES, for the detection of certain chemicals and compounds in our water. We could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators for non-compliance with these laws, regulations and permits. In addition, government authorities continually review these regulations, particularly the drinking water quality regulations and may propose new or more restrictive requirements in the future. If new or more restrictive limitations on permissible levels of substances and contaminants in our water are imposed, we may not be able to adequately predict the costs necessary to meet regulatory standards. If we are unable to recover the cost of implementing new water treatment procedures in response to more restrictive water quality regulations through the rates we charge our customers, or if we fail to comply with such regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water systems. Any pending or future acquisition we decide to undertake will involve risks. The terms of the Merger Agreement provide that we may not invest in any new acquisition without the City’s prior written approval. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, we expect that the acquisition and integration of water systems would be an important element in our growth strategy. This strategy depends on identifying suitable acquisition opportunities and reaching mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could require us to expend significant resources. Further, acquisitions may result in our incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and fluctuations in quarterly results. In addition, the businesses and other assets we acquire may not achieve the financial results that we expected. The current concentration of our business in southern and central New Hampshire makes us susceptible to any adverse development in local regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and weather conditions. Our core service area comprises Pennichuck Water’s franchise in the City of Nashua, New Hampshire and portions of the surrounding towns of Amherst, Hollis and Merrimack. Pennichuck East serves a similar area in southern and central New Hampshire, east of the Merrimack River and Pennichuck Water’s core service area. Our revenues and operating results are therefore subject to local regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and weather conditions in these areas. A change in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business. In addition, any such change would have a disproportionate effect on us, compared to water utility companies that do not have such a geographic concentration. 13 Table of Contents The loss of a significant commercial or industrial customer could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Our revenues will decrease, and such decrease may be material, if one or more significant commercial or industrial customers terminate, or materially reduce, their use of our water. If any large commercial or industrial customer reduces or ceases its consumption of our water, we may seek NHPUC approval to increase the rates of our remaining customers to recover any lost revenues. There can be no assurance, however, that the NHPUC would approve such a rate relief request, and even if it did approve such a request, it would not apply retroactively to the date of the reduction in consumption. The delay between such date and the effective date of the rate relief may be significant and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Weather conditions and overuse may interfere with our sources of water, demand for water services and our ability to supply water to our customers. We depend primarily on surface water from the Pennichuck Brook and, to a lesser extent, the Merrimack River in Nashua, New Hampshire to meet the present and future water demands of our customers. Unexpected conditions may interfere with our water supply sources. Drought and overuse may limit the availability of surface water. These factors might adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. Additionally, cool and wet weather, as well as drought restrictions and our customers’ conservation efforts, may reduce consumption demand, also adversely affecting our revenues and operating results. Furthermore, freezing weather may also contribute to water transmission interruptions caused by pipe and main breakage. If we experience an interruption in our water supply, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Contamination of our water supply may cause disruption in our services and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our water supply is subject to contamination from the migration of naturally occurring substances in groundwater and surface systems, as well as pollution resulting from man-made sources. In the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source through our interconnected transmission and distribution facilities. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities or development of new treatment methods. Our inability to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost effective or timely manner, may have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Non-performance by our commodity suppliers including water treatment chemicals and electricity, could cause disruption in our services and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. To the extent these suppliers are sole source suppliers (electricity) or are one of a limited number of suppliers (certain chemicals certified for use in the production of potable drinking water under the Safe Drinking Water Act), we could be unable to produce water or appropriate quantities of water in compliance with the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or we could experience unfavorable cost increases related to the direct costs of producing potable water. The result of any non-performance or unfavorable cost increases by these suppliers would result in reduced net operating income and cash from operations and eventually could adversely affect our overall financial position. The necessity for increased security has and may continue to result in increased operating costs. In the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the ensuing attention to threats to the nation’s health and security, we have expended resources to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. We have also incurred expenses to tighten our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business. We will continue to bear increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies. We are not aware of any specific threats to our facilities, operations or supplies. However, it is possible that we would not be in a position to control the outcome of such events should they occur. Damage to any of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition, revenues, operating results and cash flows. Pennichuck Water owns seven dams, including four impounding dams which are situated on the Nashua and Merrimack border. While we regularly inspect and maintain the dams to comply with existing standards, a failure of any of those dams could result in injuries and property damage downstream for which we may be liable above our insurance limits and which may adversely affect our financial condition, revenues and operating results. The failure of a dam would also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition, revenues, operating results and cash flows. We may not be able to maintain our existing indebtedness or to incur additional indebtedness under our existing long-term and revolving debt facilities, if our future credit ratios do not satisfy the requirements under those facilities. Our ability to issue long-term debt is subject to us satisfying certain financial ratios at the time of such borrowing (i.e., debt incurrence tests) and is subject to obtaining prior written approval from the City. Similarly, our ability to access funds under our revolving credit facilities is subject to maintaining certain financial ratios (i.e., maintenance tests). These ratios limit the amount of long-term debt relative to net plant and the amount of total debt to total capitalization and also specify minimum amounts of earnings and cash flow available to pay interest and fixed charges as a percentage of such interest and fixed charge amounts. We were in compliance with such tests as of December 31, 2010. Our ability to incur additional long-term debt and to continue to satisfy these tests depends, among other factors, on receipt of timely and adequate rate relief. 15 Table of Contents Should we be unable to issue long-term debt, to borrow under our revolving credit facilities or otherwise to access traditional sources of funds at reasonable costs and terms, our ability to finance our future capital expenditures program on a timely basis could be materially impaired. In such event, we might need to seek other forms of capital at less favorable costs and terms or defer or reduce some of our capital expenditures. Any delay in implementing or completing capital improvements could adversely affect our ability to request and receive rate relief from the NHPUC relating to capital expenditures incurred by us and could give rise to contractual penalties. If we are unable to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due or we default under certain other provisions of our loan documents, our indebtedness could be accelerated and our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our ability to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due will depend upon our current and future performance. Our performance is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We believe that our cash flow from operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our existing revolving credit facilities, will be sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments as they become due. If, however, we do not generate sufficient cash, we may be required to refinance our obligations or sell additional equity, which may be on terms that are not favorable to us. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or sale of equity will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our failure to comply with certain provisions contained in our trust indentures and loan agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness could lead to a default under these documents, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. We may be restricted by one or more debt agreements from paying dividends in amounts similar to dividends that our Company has paid in recent periods, or, in more unlikely circumstances, from continuing to pay any dividend. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to dividends that our Company has paid in recent periods. It is our current intention, however, to continue to pay comparable cash dividends in the future, subject to the terms of our Company’s debt agreements and the terms of the Merger Agreement with the City. Certain bond and note agreements as well as our revolving credit facilities impose restrictions on the payment or declaration of dividends under certain circumstances. 16 Table of Contents The success of our business strategies depends significantly on the services of the members of our senior management team and the departure of any of those persons could cause our operating results to suffer. The success of our business strategies depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our senior management team. If we lose the services of any member of our senior management or are unable to hire and retain experienced management personnel, it could harm our operating results. Risks Related to Our Water Service Business Our water service subsidiary’s revenue growth depends on its ability to enter into new operating contracts and maintain its existing contracts with municipalities, communities and non-transient, non-community water systems. In our target market of New Hampshire and nearby portions of Maine, Massachusetts and Vermont, municipalities and communities own and operate the majority of water systems. A significant portion of Service Corporation’s marketing and sales efforts is spent demonstrating the benefits of contract operations to elected officials and municipal authorities. Employee unions and certain “public interest” groups generally oppose the principle of outsourcing these services to companies like us and are active opponents in this process. The political environment means that decisions are made based on many factors, not just economic factors. There can be no assurance that we can maintain or expand our water service business. Our water management subsidiary’s business depends on trained, qualified employees. State regulations set the staff training, experience and staff qualification standards required for Service Corporation’s employees to operate specific water facilities. We must recruit, retain and develop qualified employees, maintain training programs and support employee advancement. We must provide the proper management and operational staff of state-certified and qualified employees to support the operation of water facilities. Failure to do so could put us at risk for, among other things, operational errors at the facilities, which could have an adverse effect on our water management business. Our water management subsidiary’s business is subject to environmental and water quality risks. Clients of Service Corporation are owners of the facilities that we operate under contract. The facilities must be operated in accordance with various federal and state water quality standards. We also handle certain hazardous materials at these facilities, for example, sodium hydroxide. Any failure of our operation of the facilities, including noncompliance with water quality standards, hazardous material leaks and spills, and similar events, could expose us to environmental liabilities, claims and litigation costs. There can be no assurance that we will successfully manage these issues, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Other Risks There is a limited trading market for our common stock; you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than many other companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence in turn depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. As a consequence of the limited volume of trading in our common stock, a sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the open market could cause our stock price to decline. We are subject to anti-takeover measures that may be used by existing management to discourage, delay or prevent changes of control that might benefit non-management shareholders. • Classified Board of Directors We have a classified Board of Directors, which means only three or four of our eleven total directors are elected each year. A classified board can make it harder for an acquirer to gain control by voting its candidates onto the Board of Directors and may also deter merger proposals and tender offers. At least two annual meetings of shareholders, instead of one, would generally be required to effect a change in a majority of the board. • Authorized Shares Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 11,500,000 shares of common stock and 115,000 shares of preferred stock. The shares of common stock and preferred stock were authorized in an amount greater than intended to be issued to provide our Board of Directors with flexibility to effect, among other transactions, financings, acquisitions, stock dividends, stock splits and employee stock option grants. However, these additional authorized shares may also be used by the Board of Directors to deter future attempts to gain control of our Company. The Board of Directors has sole authority to determine the terms of any one or more series of preferred stock, including voting rights, conversion rates and liquidation preferences. As a result of the ability to fix voting rights for a series of preferred stock, the board has the power to issue a series of preferred stock that would have the effect of discouraging or blocking a post-tender offer merger or other transaction by a third party. Notwithstanding these rights, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, we are prohibited from issuing any additional shares of stock or stock options while the Merger Agreement is in effect. 18 Table of Contents • Shareholder Rights Plan Our Board of Directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan. Any rights under this plan will expire on May 5, 2011 unless previously redeemed or extended. The rights plan is intended to improve the bargaining position of our Board of Directors in the event of an unsolicited offer to acquire our Company’s outstanding common stock. Under the terms of the rights plan, a preferred stock purchase right is attached to each share of our common stock that is currently outstanding or becomes outstanding before the rights become exercisable, are redeemed or expire. The rights will become exercisable only if an individual or group has acquired or obtained the right to acquire or announced a tender or exchange offer that if consummated would result in such individual or group acquiring, beneficial ownership of more than 15% (or up to 20% with the prior approval of the Board of Directors) of our outstanding common stock. Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, the rights will entitle every holder of our common stock, other than the acquirer, to purchase our stock or stock of our successor on terms that would likely be economically dilutive to the acquirer. Our Board of Directors, however, has the power to amend the rights plan so that it does not apply to a particular acquisition proposal or to redeem the rights for a nominal amount before they become exercisable. Effective March 18, 2009, our Company and its largest shareholder GAMCO Investors, Inc. (“GAMCO”), and the other affiliated Gabelli group of companies and funds (collectively the “Gabelli Group”), entered into a letter agreement, pursuant to which GAMCO and the Gabelli Group have been granted an exemption to collectively purchase up to, but less than, 20% of our Company’s outstanding shares of common stock, subject to terms set forth in the letter agreement. Effective November 11, 2010, we amended the rights plan pursuant to which the execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement, the consummation of the merger, and the consummation of any other transaction contemplated in the Merger Agreement will be deemed not to result in events that authorize the exercise of the rights under the rights plan. • Supermajority Shareholder Approval May be Required for Fundamental Transactions with an “Interested Shareholder” Our Articles of Incorporation require that certain fundamental transactions must be approved by the holders of two-thirds of each class of stock entitled to vote and two-thirds of the total number of shares entitled to vote, unless a majority of “disinterested directors” has approved the transaction and other specified conditions are satisfied, in which case the required shareholder approval will be the minimum approval required by applicable law. The transactions that are subject to this provision are various fundamental transactions between us and an “interested shareholder” or an affiliate of that shareholder. These transactions include certain sales or other dispositions of our assets, certain issuances of our capital stock, certain transactions involving our merger, consolidation, division, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation or winding up or certain amendments of our Articles of Incorporation or bylaws. We believe that the interested shareholder provision will likely encourage an acquirer to negotiate with the Board of Directors before commencing a tender offer. Approval by the NHPUC would be required for any acquisition of the Company and the NHPUC would consider factors other than what is in the best interest of our shareholders. Our water utility subsidiaries are regulated by the NHPUC. The NHPUC takes the position that under New Hampshire law, water utility holding companies may not be acquired unless and until there is an order of the NHPUC approving the acquisition. In practice, companies acquiring water utility holding companies in New Hampshire have typically sought NHPUC approval as a condition of any transaction. The NHPUC may approve an acquisition only if it determines that the acquisition will not result in net harm to customers and is lawful, proper and in the public interest. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 