Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are various risks involved in investing in our Company, some of which are described below. Investors should carefully consider each of the following factors and all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information that is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Water Utilities The City of Nashua’s use of the power of eminent domain to acquire a significant portion of our water utility assets creates uncertainty and may result in material adverse consequences for us and our shareholders. We are involved in ongoing proceedings with the City of Nashua (the “City”) regarding the City’s desire to acquire all or a significant portion of the water utility assets of Pennichuck Water, our principal subsidiary. The City is pursuing such acquisition pursuant to its power of eminent domain under New Hampshire law. On July 25, 2008, the NHPUC issued an order that the taking of the assets of Pennichuck Water is in the public interest provided certain conditions are met, and that the price to be paid to Pennichuck Water for such assets is $203 million determined as of December 31, 2008. The conditions include a requirement that the City place an additional $40 million into a mitigation fund to protect the interests of the customers of Pennichuck East and Pittsfield Aqueduct. Another condition is that the City submit to the NHPUC, for its advance approval, the final operating contracts between the City and its planned contractors. The remaining conditions cover various aspects of the operation and oversight of the water system under City ownership. A taking of assets by eminent domain as per the NHPUC order would result in a significant taxable gain and related income tax liability based on the difference between the price paid to Pennichuck Water for the assets taken and Pennichuck Water’s underlying cost or tax basis in such assets. The tax liability would be due currently unless the proceeds of the taking were reinvested in other water utility assets in accordance with certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. For a further discussion, see Note 9, “Commitments and Contingencies” in Part II, Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Under New Hampshire law, all parties to the proceeding and persons directly affected by the order had 30 days to seek reconsideration or a rehearing before the NHPUC. Our Company and the City were the only parties to submit such motions or objections thereto. The NHPUC’s ruling on any request for reconsideration or a rehearing may be appealed to the New Hampshire Supreme Court. We cannot predict when the NHPUC will rule on the pending motions from the City and our Company, but we expect that a full rehearing and appeal process would likely take a year or more. If the City ultimately is successful in obtaining a final determination that it can take some or all of Pennichuck Water’s assets, the City is not required under NHRSA Ch. 38 to complete the taking and could choose not to proceed with the purchase of the assets. Our Board of Directors and our shareholders would not have the right to approve a forced sale of Pennichuck Water assets to the City in an eminent domain proceeding or the amount of damages that the City would have to pay to Pennichuck Water as a consequence of such a taking. Furthermore, such compensation could give rise to material income tax liabilities at the corporate level, thereby effectively reducing our remaining net assets. Given the highly integrated nature of our businesses, a forced sale of a significant portion of Pennichuck Water’s assets may result in increased costs and operating inefficiencies borne by our remaining water utilities. Additionally, Service Corporation’s ability to service its existing contracts, as well as pursue additional operating contracts, could be materially impaired. The existence of a pending eminent domain proceeding also could adversely affect our future prospects and result in the loss of key employees. 15 Table of Contents It is likely that our Company would not have the opportunity to contract to operate for the City all or any portion of the Pennichuck Water system that the City could acquire in an eminent domain proceeding. According to the City’s filings with the NHPUC, if the City acquires all or any portion of the Pennichuck Water system in an eminent domain proceeding, the City intends to enter into an Operation, Maintenance and Management Agreement with Veolia Water North America — Northeast LLC to operate that water system. According to the City’s filings, Veolia is a wholly owned subsidiary of Veolia Environment (a French company, formerly known as Vivendi Environment). Our vigorous opposition to the City’s efforts to acquire our assets by eminent domain has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our operating results and has been, and may continue to be, a significant distraction to our management. We have vigorously opposed the City’s efforts to acquire Pennichuck Water’s assets by eminent domain and intend to continue to do so. Our eminent domain-related expenses have been significant until recently and these expenses will now likely increase substantially as a result of the July 2008 NHPUC order. For 2008, these expenses were approximately $0.2 million, versus $0.9 million in 2007 and $2.4 million in each of 2006 and 2005. A substantial portion of our senior management’s attention has been and will continue to be devoted to coordinating various aspects of our response to the City’s eminent domain initiative. We cannot assure you that management’s attention to the City’s eminent domain initiative will not adversely affect their oversight of other aspects of our business. On February 13, 2009 we announced that we engaged an investment banking firm to advise us regarding a possible comprehensive settlement of the ongoing eminent domain dispute with the City of Nashua, New Hampshire. A settlement could involve Nashua’s acquisition of some or all of the assets of Pennichuck or one or more of its subsidiaries or, alternatively, the shares of Pennichuck stock. On November 18, 2008, the City of Nashua announced that it was hiring an investment banking firm to assist it in exploring all possible ways that it might acquire Pennichuck Water Works by means other than eminent domain. Commenting on this development, Duane C. Montopoli, Pennichuck’s President and Chief Executive, said, “As previously publicly stated, we are open to engaging in settlement discussions with the City of Nashua aimed at resolving our dispute outside of eminent domain. Nevertheless, I must caution Pennichuck stakeholders that a comprehensive settlement would require the negotiation and resolution of many complex issues and, therefore, no assurance can be given that Nashua and Pennichuck would ultimately be able to reach a settlement agreement. Moreover, in addition to the approval of two-thirds of Nashua’s Board of Aldermen, a definitive settlement agreement could also be subject to approval by the New Hampshire Public Utilities Commission and, depending on the terms of any settlement, Pennichuck shareholders.” We have also previously disclosed that we generally do not intend to comment further on the status or substance of any settlement discussions with the City of Nashua unless and until a definitive settlement agreement is entered into. 16 Table of Contents Our liquidity may be reduced and our cost of debt financing may be increased while the eminent domain controversy remains unresolved, because, while such controversy is ongoing, we may be unable to, or elect not to, issue or remarket debt securities for which Pennichuck may be liable. Given the highly uncertain ultimate outcome of the eminent domain proceeding, we may find that we are unable to, or elect not to, issue or remarket certain debt securities pending a definitive resolution of the City’s eminent domain petition or we may find that the cost that we incur in connection with the issuance or remarketing of such debt increases materially. If we are unable to, or elect not to, issue or remarket such debt, we would expect to rely primarily on our available cash and short-term investment balances and, thereafter, on our bank revolving credit facility to finance our capital projects. Our borrowing costs under that credit facility would likely be materially higher than tax-exempt bond financing costs. Borrowings under the credit facility would also reduce our liquidity to meet other obligations. For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our water utility business requires significant capital expenditures and the rates we charge our customers are subject to regulation. If we are unable to obtain government approval of our requests for rate relief, or if approved rate relief is untimely or inadequate to cover our investments, our operating results would suffer. Our ability to maintain and meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the rates we charge our customers. These rates are subject to approval by the NHPUC. We file rate relief requests, from time to time, to recover our operating expenses and to recover the cost of and earn a return on our investments in utility plant. The water utility business is capital intensive. We typically spend significant sums each year for additions to or replacement of property, plant and equipment. Once we file a rate relief petition with the NHPUC, the ensuing administrative and hearing process may be lengthy and costly. We can provide no assurances that any future rate relief request will be approved by the NHPUC; and, if approved, we cannot guarantee that the rate relief granted will be in a timely or sufficient manner to cover the investments and expenses for which we initially sought such rate relief. The relatively large magnitude of rate relief that we have currently requested in order to obtain recovery of and a return on recent capital expenditures may adversely affect our ability to obtain timely and adequate rate relief and, therefore, could adversely affect our ability to service the debt that we have incurred. During 2007 and 2008, our capital expenditures were particularly large due to investments in those years to (a) complete major portions of the upgrade to our water treatment plant to meet more stringent federally mandated water quality standards, (b) complete various water distribution, storage, supply, maintenance, rehabilitation and replacement projects, and (c) implement a proposed radio-based meter reading system. As a result of the magnitude of our current construction program, our current rate relief requests are significant. There can be no assurance that the NHPUC will approve these rate relief requests in a timely or sufficient manner to cover our investments to date and current expense levels. Our ability to service the debt that we have incurred to finance our construction program would be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain timely and adequate rate relief relating to the capital expenditures incurred to date. 17 Table of Contents Our financial flexibility may be limited during the next several years, as our long-term debt and our ratio of total debt to total capitalization has increased significantly as a consequence of our debt funding of our capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2008, our total common equity and total debt were $47.8 million and $66.3 million, respectively, resulting in a total debt to total capitalization ratio of 58.1%. We project that toward the end of our projected 2008-2010 capital expenditures program, our total debt (net of mandatory and discretionary debt re-financings) and our total debt to total capitalization ratio (net of cash balances, if any) will increase further. The increases in our total debt and in our ratio of total debt to total capitalization may limit our ability to fund our operations, to pay dividends on our common stock and to pursue acquisitions. These increases may also limit our ability to renew or replace our maturing credit facilities or may otherwise adversely affect our access to long-term debt at reasonable costs and terms. Changes in the U.S. debt markets, including especially adverse changes to the municipal bond market in general and to the financial condition of our bond insurer, has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the interest expense we incur for certain tax-exempt financings and in the future may require Pennichuck to accept less advantageous terms and conditions on its tax-exempt financings. Pennichuck Water’s tax-exempt bonds are insured pursuant to bond insurance policies provided by American Municipal Bond Assurance Corporation (“AMBAC”). Historically, utilizing AMBAC bond insurance has had the effect of achieving a Moody’s credit rating of Aaa, resulting in a lower interest rate than would have been the case had Pennichuck Water borrowed on its stand-alone Moody’s credit rating of Baa3. Historically, such interest rate savings were greater than the cost of bond insurance, resulting in lower net borrowing costs with bond insurance. The major independent credit rating service providers (i.e., Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Investors Service) have conducted detailed reviews of the credit ratings of AMBAC and several other monoline bond insurers. Such reviews resulted in AMBAC’s ratings having been downgraded. Currently, AMBAC’s Moody’s rating is Baa1 with a developing outlook and its rating from Standard & Poor’s Rating Services is A with a negative outlook. These recent downgrades and the prospect of additional future downgrades may have the effect of diminishing, and in certain instances eliminating, the net benefit to borrowers, including the Company, of utilizing AMBAC bond insurance. On October 1, 2008 Pennichuck Water repurchased its $6 million Series B-1 Bonds rather that remarketing them and deposited them as treasury bonds with the escrow agent. Pennichuck Water reached this decision in part because the interest rate that it would have had to pay on the Series B-1 Bonds would likely have been significantly higher than the rates paid on similar Pennichuck Water bonds. The increase in indicative rates for the Series B-1 Bonds was due to a variety of factors, including AMBAC’s downgraded ratings and the general credit market conditions at the time. The Company’s decision to repurchase the Series B-1 Bonds was also based in part on its liquidity at the time. If, in the future, the Company has less liquidity at the time of a tax-exempt financing or remarketing and the offered interest rates on its bonds remain high or increase, including increases due to a future AMBAC downgrade, the Company may be forced to accept interest rates on Pennichuck Water bonds that are higher than those previously available to it which could in turn have a material adverse effect on how and whether the Company chooses to conduct tax-exempt financings and remarketings in the future. 18 Table of Contents No assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome of the continuing credit reviews of AMBAC’s credit ratings nor can any assurance be given as to the impact of such reviews on interest rates for new issues or remarketings of Pennichuck Water bonds that are insured by AMBAC. Furthermore, no assurance can be given as to the net benefit, if any, to Pennichuck Water of its utilization of AMBAC bond insurance. In the absence of any net benefit, Pennichuck Water may seek alternate forms of third party credit enhancement (for example, bank letters of credit) or may seek to borrow on a stand-alone basis. No assurance can be given as to availability, terms and conditions and net benefit, if any, through the utilization of alternate third party credit enhancement. Furthermore, should Pennichuck Water seek to borrow on a stand-alone basis, its cost of borrowing is likely to be higher than, and its borrowing terms and conditions are likely to be less flexible than, comparable results for borrowings supported by the Aaa bond insurance policy anticipated at the October 2005 implementation of the tax-exempt bond financing program for funding its water treatment plant upgrade project and other capital improvements. We may not be able to maintain our existing indebtedness or to incur additional indebtedness under our existing long-term and revolving debt facilities, if our future credit ratios do not satisfy the requirements under those facilities. Our ability to issue long-term debt is subject to us satisfying certain financial ratios at the time of such borrowing (i.e., debt incurrence tests). Similarly, our ability to access funds under our revolving credit facility is subject to maintaining certain financial ratios (i.e., maintenance tests). These ratios limit the amount of long-term debt relative to net plant and the amount of total debt to total capitalization and also specify minimum amounts of earnings and cash flow available to pay interest and fixed charges as a percentage of such interest and fixed charge amounts. We were in compliance with such tests as of December 31, 2008. Our ability to incur significant additional long-term debt and to continue to satisfy these tests depends, among other factors, on receipt of timely and adequate rate relief. Should we be unable to issue long-term debt, to borrow under our revolving credit facility or otherwise to access traditional sources of funds at reasonable costs and terms, our ability to finance our future capital expenditures program on a timely basis could be materially impaired. In such event, we may need to seek other forms of capital at less favorable costs and terms or defer or reduce some of our capital expenditures. Any delay in implementing or completing capital improvements could adversely affect our ability to request and receive rate relief from the NHPUC relating to capital expenditures incurred by us and could give rise to contractual penalties. If we are unable to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due or we default under certain other provisions of our loan documents, our indebtedness could be accelerated and our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our ability to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due will depend upon our current and future performance. Our performance is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We believe that our cash flow from operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments as they become due. If, however, we do not generate sufficient cash, we may be required to refinance our obligations or sell additional equity, which may be on terms that are not favorable to us. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or sale of equity will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our failure to comply with certain provisions contained in our trust indentures and loan agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness could lead to a default under these documents, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. 19 Table of Contents We expect that all or substantially all of our then outstanding indebtedness would be accelerated if the City were to acquire a significant portion of our assets; such acceleration could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. An eminent domain taking or temporary use by any governmental body of all or substantially all of the tangible property of Pennichuck Water used or useful in its business as a water company would result in a mandatory redemption of our long-term debt. We expect that any taking of Pennichuck Water’s assets by the City in the eminent domain matter now pending before the NHPUC (or a bona fide sale in lieu of such taking has occurred) would represent the taking of substantially all of Pennichuck Water’s tangible property used or useful in its business as a water company and would therefore trigger mandatory redemption of our long-term debt. Similarly, our revolving credit facility with Bank of America provides that any indebtedness outstanding under the facility would be due upon the City acquiring all or a material portion of Pennichuck Water’s assets in an eminent domain proceeding. Also, no new borrowings would be permitted under such facility. Such acceleration could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results if we are unable to repay such indebtedness at that time or to refinance the indebtedness on equally favorable terms and conditions or to incur new borrowings. We may be restricted by one or more debt agreements from paying dividends in amounts similar to dividends that our Company has paid in recent periods, or, in more unlikely circumstances, from continuing to pay any dividend. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to dividends that our Company has paid in recent periods. It is our current intention, however, to continue to pay comparable cash dividends in the future, subject to the terms of our Company’s debt agreements. Certain bond and note agreements as well as our revolving credit facility impose restrictions on the payment or declaration of dividends. The loss of a significant commercial or industrial customer can and has adversely affected our operating results and cash flows. Our revenues will decrease, and such decrease may be material, if one or more significant commercial or industrial customers terminate, or materially reduce, their use of our water. If any large commercial or industrial customer reduces or ceases its consumption of our water, we may seek NHPUC approval to increase the rates of our remaining customers to recover any lost revenues. There can be no assurance, however, that the NHPUC would approve such a rate relief request, and even if it did approve such a request, it would not apply retroactively to the date of the reduction in consumption. The delay between such date and the effective date of the rate relief may be significant and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to federal, state and local regulation that may impose significant limitations and restrictions on the way we do business. Various federal, state and local authorities regulate many aspects of our business. Among the most important of these regulations are those relating to the quality of water we supply our customers. These laws require us to obtain various environmental permits from environmental regulatory agencies for our operations and to perform water quality tests that are monitored by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, or DES, for the detection of certain chemicals and compounds in our water. We could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators for non-compliance with these laws, regulations and permits. In addition, government authorities continually review these regulations, particularly the drinking water quality regulations and may propose new or more restrictive requirements in the future. If new or more restrictive limitations on permissible levels of substances and contaminants in our water are imposed, we may not be able to adequately predict the costs necessary to meet regulatory standards. If we are unable to recover the cost of implementing new water treatment procedures in response to more restrictive water quality regulations through the rates we charge our customers, or if we fail to comply with such regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water systems. Any pending or future acquisition we decide to undertake will involve risks. The acquisition and integration of water systems is an important element in our growth strategy. This strategy depends on identifying suitable acquisition opportunities and reaching mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could require us to expend significant costs and resources. Further, acquisitions may result in dilution for the owners of our common stock, our incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and fluctuations in quarterly results. In addition, the businesses and other assets we acquire may not achieve the financial results that we expected. The current concentration of our business in southern and central New Hampshire makes us susceptible to any adverse development in local regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and weather conditions. Our core service area comprises Pennichuck Water’s franchise in the City of Nashua, New Hampshire and portions of the surrounding towns of Amherst, Hollis and Merrimack. Pennichuck East serves a similar area in southern and central New Hampshire, east of the Merrimack River and Pennichuck Water’s core service area. Our revenues and operating results are therefore subject to local regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and weather conditions in these areas. A change in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business. In addition, any such change would have a disproportionate effect on us, compared to water utility companies that do not have such a geographic concentration. Weather conditions and overuse may interfere with our sources of water, demand for water services and our ability to supply water to our customers. We depend primarily on surface water from the Pennichuck Brook and, to a lesser extent, the Merrimack River in Nashua, New Hampshire to meet the present and future water demands of our customers. Unexpected conditions may interfere with our water supply sources. Drought and overuse may limit the availability of surface water. These factors might adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. Additionally, cool and wet weather, as well as drought restrictions and our customers’ conservation efforts, may reduce consumption demands, also adversely affecting our revenues and operating results. Furthermore, freezing weather may also contribute to water transmission interruptions caused by pipe and main breakage. If we experience an interruption in our water supply, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Contamination of our water supply may cause disruption in our services and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our water supply is subject to contamination from the migration of naturally occurring substances in groundwater and surface systems, as well as pollution resulting from man-made sources. In the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source through our interconnected transmission and distribution facilities. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities or development of new treatment methods. Our inability to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost effective or timely manner, may have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The necessity for increased security has and may continue to result in increased operating costs. In the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the ensuing attention to threats to the nation’s health and security, we have expended resources to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. We have also incurred expenses to tighten our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business. We will continue to bear increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies. We are not aware of any specific threats to our facilities, operations or supplies. However, it is possible that we would not be in a position to control the outcome of such events should they occur. Damage to any of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition, revenues, operating results and cash flows. Pennichuck Water owns seven dams, including four impounding dams which are situated on the Nashua and Merrimack border. A failure of any of those dams could result in injuries and property damage downstream for which we may be liable and which may adversely affect our financial condition, revenues and operating results. The failure of a dam would also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition, revenues, operating results and cash flows. The success of our acquisition strategy depends significantly on the services of the members of our senior management team and the departure of any of those persons could cause our operating results to suffer. The success of our acquisition strategy depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our senior management team. If we lose the services of any member of our senior management or are unable to hire and retain experienced management personnel, it could harm our operating results. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Water Management Business Our water management subsidiary’s revenue growth depends on its ability to enter into new operating contracts and maintain its existing contracts with municipalities, communities and non-transient, non-community water systems. In our target market of New Hampshire and nearby portions of Maine, Massachusetts and Vermont, municipalities and communities own and operate the majority of water systems. A significant portion of Service Corporation’s marketing and sales efforts is spent demonstrating the benefits of contract operations to elected officials and municipal authorities. Employee unions and certain “public interest” groups generally oppose the principle of outsourcing these services to companies like us and are active opponents in this process. The political environment means that decisions are made based on many factors, not just economic factors. There can be no assurance that we can maintain or expand our water management business. Our water management subsidiary’s business depends on trained, qualified employees. State regulations set the staff training, experience and staff qualification standards required for Service Corporation’s employees to operate specific water facilities. We must recruit, retain and develop qualified employees, maintain training programs and support employee advancement. We must provide the proper management and operational staff of state-certified and qualified employees to support the operation of water facilities. Failure to do so could put us at risk, among other things, for operational errors at the facilities, which could have an adverse effect on our water management business. Our water management subsidiary’s business is subject to environmental and water quality risks. Clients of Service Corporation are owners of the facilities that we operate under contract. The facilities must be operated in accordance with various federal and state water quality standards. We also handle certain hazardous materials at these facilities, for example, sodium hydroxide. Any failure of our operation of the facilities, including noncompliance with water quality standards, hazardous material leaks and spills, and similar events, could expose us to environmental liabilities, claims and litigation costs. There is no assurance that we will successfully manage these issues and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Activities The cost of obtaining development permits and other land use approvals, as well as fluctuations in interest rates, construction costs and economic conditions prevailing in the Nashua/Merrimack area and the supply of investment capital for commercial real estate and related assets, could adversely affect the value of our undeveloped land. Primarily through our Southwood subsidiary, we own or control several parcels of non-utility undeveloped land in Nashua and Merrimack, New Hampshire, comprising approximately 450 acres. During the next several years, if and to the extent that opportunities arise, we expect to pursue, directly or indirectly, the permitting and other land use approvals necessary to realize some or all of the value of those parcels. We may undertake those efforts either alone or in concert with others. The value we realize for our undeveloped land will depend primarily on whether development permits and other land use approvals can be obtained in a timely, cost effective manner. The process of obtaining such permits and approvals is inherently uncertain, lengthy and expensive. The value of our undeveloped land may also be affected by fluctuations in interest rates, construction costs and economic conditions prevailing in the Nashua/Merrimack area and the supply of investment capital for commercial real estate and related assets. 23 Table of Contents Other Risks There is a limited trading market for our common stock; you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than many other companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence in turn depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. As a consequence of the limited volume of trading in our common stock, a sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the open market could cause our stock price to decline. We are subject to anti-takeover measures that may be used by existing management to discourage, delay or prevent changes of control that might benefit non-management shareholders. • Classified Board of Directors We have a classified Board of Directors, which means only one-third of the directors are elected each year. A classified board can make it harder for an acquirer to gain control by voting its candidates onto the Board of Directors and may also deter merger proposals and tender offers. At least two annual meetings of shareholders, instead of one, will generally be required to effect a change in a majority of the board. • Authorized Shares Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 11,500,000 shares of common stock and 115,000 shares of preferred stock. The shares of common stock and preferred stock were authorized in an amount greater than intended to be issued to provide our Board of Directors with as much flexibility as possible to effect, among other transactions, financings, acquisitions, stock dividends, stock splits and employee stock option grants. However, these additional authorized shares may also be used by the Board of Directors to deter future attempts to gain control of the Company. The Board of Directors has sole authority to determine the terms of any one or more series of preferred stock, including voting rights, conversion rates and liquidation preferences. As a result of the ability to fix voting rights for a series of preferred stock, the board has the power to issue a series of preferred stock that would have the effect of discouraging or blocking a post-tender offer merger or other transaction by a third party. 24 Table of Contents • Shareholder Rights Plan Our Board of Directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan. The rights plan is intended to improve the bargaining position of our Board of Directors in the event of an unsolicited offer to acquire the Company’s outstanding common stock. Under the terms of the rights plan, a preferred stock purchase right is attached to each share of our common stock that is currently outstanding or becomes outstanding before the rights become exercisable, are redeemed or expire. The rights will become exercisable only if an individual or group has acquired or obtained the right to acquire or announced a tender or exchange offer that if consummated would result in such individual or group acquiring beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, the rights will entitle every holder of our common stock, other than the acquirer, to purchase our stock or stock of our successor on terms that would likely be economically dilutive to the acquirer. Our Board of Directors, however, has the power to amend the rights plan so that it does not apply to a particular acquisition proposal or to redeem the rights for a nominal value before they become exercisable. We believe these features will likely encourage an acquirer to negotiate with our Board of Directors before commencing a tender offer or to condition a tender offer on the board taking action to prevent the rights from becoming exercisable. Effective March 2, 2009, the Rights Agreement was amended to give the Board of Directors the right, in its sole discretion, to determine if any individual or group (including all of their affiliates and associates) should be exempted from being the beneficial owner and/or acquiring beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock of the Company subject to certain terms and conditions (if any) that the Board of Directors may establish for said exemption. • Supermajority Shareholder Approval May be Required for Fundamental Transactions with an “Interested Shareholder” Our Articles of Incorporation require that certain fundamental transactions must be approved by the holders of two-thirds of each class of stock entitled to vote and two-thirds of the total number of shares entitled to vote, unless a majority of “disinterested directors” has approved the transaction and other specified conditions are satisfied, in which case the required shareholder approval will be the minimum approval required by applicable law. The transactions that are subject to this provision are various fundamental transactions between us and an “interested shareholder” or an affiliate of that shareholder. These transactions include certain sales or other dispositions of our assets, certain issuances of our capital stock, certain transactions involving our merger, consolidation, division, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation or winding up or certain amendments of our Articles of Incorporation or bylaws. We believe that the interested shareholder provision will likely encourage an acquirer to negotiate with the Board of Directors before commencing a tender offer. Approval of the NHPUC would be required for any acquisition of the Company and the NHPUC would consider factors other than what is in the best interest of our shareholders. Our water utility subsidiaries are regulated by the NHPUC. The NHPUC takes the position that under New Hampshire law, water utility holding companies may not be acquired unless and until there is an order of the NHPUC approving the acquisition. In practice, companies acquiring water utility holding companies in New Hampshire have typically sought NHPUC approval as a condition of any transaction. The NHPUC may approve an acquisition only if it determines that the acquisition will not have an adverse effect on rates, terms, service or operation of the utilities and is lawful, proper and in the public interest. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 