Item 1A. RISK FACTORS A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers such that if we were to lose one, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In fiscal year 2012, our top 20 customers accounted for 88% of our sales, with our two largest customers accounting for 39% and 32% of our sales, respectively. Our largest customer, whose name is prohibited from being disclosed by a confidentiality agreement (the “Customer”), informed us in December 2009 that it was in the process of developing, and planned to eventually manufacture, its own surgical devices which were functionally comparable to the products the Company provided to the Customer at that time. Pro-Dex had been the Customer’s exclusive manufacturer of these products since they were developed. Through May 2012, we provided the Customer with two products (“Product A” and “Product B”) and repair services for both products. Sales for each of these categories for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows: Sales 2012 2011 Amount % of Total Amount % of Total Product A $ 3,276,000 49 % $ 6,701,000 55 % Product B 1,734,000 26 % 4,299,000 35 % Repairs 1,700,000 25 % 1,289,000 10 % Total $ 6,710,000 100 % $ 12,289,000 100 % - 7 - Table of Contents In June 2011, the Customer informed us that its product development had progressed to the point where, it did not plan to place any new orders with us for these products beyond those orders already placed with delivery dates through May 2012, and we have received no such new orders. In addition, the Customer indicated that it planned to limit repair requests from us to those Products A and B that are covered by our product warranty. Although we continue to receive repair orders from the Customer, there is no assurance that the Customer will continue to place repair orders with us, in which case repair revenue (for out-of-warranty products) would decline to zero or a negligible amount, adversely affecting our future results of operations. The loss of one or more additional large customers could severely impact us, including having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. Our failure to manage changing sales levels could harm us by having a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. During this current period of sales contraction, we are continuing to implement the steps of a strategic plan, the objectives of which are to identify and capture additional revenue opportunities and concurrently reduce operating costs not critical to revenue growth. There can be no assurance, however, as to either the timing or success of achieving these objectives, which, during any period not achieved, will cause us to experience a prolonged material and adverse impact on our business. Even if we are successful in identifying and capturing additional revenue opportunities, we might be required to expand our overall production, development, marketing, sales, management and training capacity. In the event we are unable to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals in such capacities within a reasonable timeframe, such failure could have a material adverse effect on us. We have terminated our bank credit facility agreements and intend to repay in full our bank term loan by September 30, 2012. An inability to achieve anticipated cash flows from operations over the next twelve months could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and could require additional financing, which may not be available. Our bank credit facility agreements contain various covenants, including certain covenants measured annually based on fiscal year results, concerning our financial performance. At June 30, 2012, we were in violation of profitability-based covenants, for which the bank had the right to declare us in default of the bank credit facility agreements and the entire amount owing under the facility, consisting of a term loan, to become immediately due and payable. We have historically not made any borrowings against our bank lines of credit, and believe that existing cash balances and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund operations for the next twelve months and to fully repay the term loan. Accordingly, on August 30, 2012, we notified the bank of our intent to terminate the credit facility agreements and repay the term loan in full on or before September 30, 2012. By letter to us dated September 4, 2012, the bank waived, through October 1, 2012, the rights it otherwise would have had pursuant to the covenant violations described above. An inability to achieve anticipated cash flows from operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund operations for the next twelve months and require us to obtain new financing. However, there is no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A substantial portion of our business is derived from our two core business areas that, if not serviced properly, may result in a material adverse impact upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently derive a substantial part of our net revenues from sales of our medical device and motion control products and related services. We believe that a primary factor in the market acceptance of our products and services is the value that is created for our customers by those products and related services. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on our ability to continue to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers through the timely development, successful introduction and implementation of new and enhanced products and services. We have historically expended a significant percentage of our net revenues on product development and believe that significant continued product development efforts will be required to sustain our growth. Continued investment in our sales and marketing efforts will also be required to support future growth. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product development efforts, that the market will continue to accept our existing products, or that new products or product enhancements will be developed and implemented in a timely manner, meet the requirements of our customers, or achieve market acceptance. If new products or product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition from a number of different sources, which could negatively impact our results of operations and business conditions. The markets for products in the industries served by our customers are intensely competitive, and we face significant competition from a number of different sources. Several of our competitors have significantly greater name recognition, as well as substantially greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources, than us. We compete in all of our markets with other major surgical device and motion control related companies. As a provider of outsourced products and services, we also compete with our customers’ own internal development groups. Competitive pressures and other factors, such as new product or new technology introductions by us, our customers’ internal development and manufacturing departments, or our competitors may result in price or market share erosion that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, there can be no assurance that our products and services will achieve broad market acceptance or will successfully compete with other products. - 8 - Table of Contents Our quarterly results can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may negatively impact the price of our shares and/or cause significant variances in the prices at which such shares trade. Our sales have fluctuated in the past, and may fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and period to period, as a result of a number of factors including, without limitation: the size and timing of orders from customers; the length of new product development cycles; market acceptance of new technologies; changes in pricing policies or price reductions by us or our competitors; the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us or our competitors; the financial stability of major customers; our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs; acceleration, deferral, or cancellation of customer orders and deliveries; changes in our strategy; personnel changes; and general market and economic factors. Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of sales can cause significant fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that interim period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period. In addition, it is possible that our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such an event, the price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Our operations are subject to a number of complex government regulations, the violation of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The manufacture and distribution of medical and dental devices are subject to state and federal requirements set forth by various agencies including the FDA and EPA. The statutes, regulations, administrative orders, and advisories that affect our businesses are complex and subject to diverse, often conflicting, interpretations. While we make every effort to maintain full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, we are unable to eliminate an ongoing risk that one or more of our activities may at some point be determined to have been non-compliant. The penalties for non-compliance could range from an administrative warning to termination of a portion of our business. Furthermore, even if we are subsequently determined to have fully complied with applicable laws or regulations, the costs to achieve such a determination and the intervening loss of business could adversely affect or result in the cessation of a portion of our business. A change in such laws or regulations at any time may have an adverse effect on our operations. Notwithstanding the risks inherent in our business, management believes that our operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The FDA regulates all medical devices into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the level of control necessary to assure the safety and effectiveness of the device. The FDA has broad enforcement powers to recall and prohibit the sale of products that do not comply with federal regulations, and to order the cessation of non-compliant processes. No claim has been made to date by the FDA regarding any of our products or processes. Nevertheless, as is common in the industry, certain of our products and processes are from time to time subject to routine governmental reviews and investigations. While management believes that our products and processes fully comply with applicable laws and regulations, we are unable to predict the outcome of any such future review or investigation. We believe that our business is conducted in a manner consistent with EPA and other agency regulations governing disposition of industrial waste materials. In February 2011, we became aware of a report entitled “Site Discovery Report, Southeast Santa Ana Project DTSC – Cypress Region,” dated February 2010 (the “Report”), that was prepared by the Cypress regional office of the Cal/EPA Department of Toxic Substances Control (“DTSC”) for Region 9 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) under an agreement between the two agencies. The purpose of the Report was to identify sites within an area of southeast Santa Ana, California that may be sources of groundwater contamination - 9 - Table of Contents previously detected in that area. The Report identified 25 sites, including our former Santa Ana site, for further screening by DTSC staff over the next two years. DTSC has informed us that no further evaluation of our former site took place during either fiscal year 2011 or 2012. It is uncertain whether future developments, if any, from DTSC’s screening process would have any application to our former site. In addition, we are unable to predict the outcome of any investigation or review which may be undertaken in the future with respect to our disposition of industrial waste materials. If any of our products, processes or other operations were to be found in violation of government regulations, it could expose us to claims, liabilities and remedial obligations that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Healthcare Act”) signed into law in March 2010 enacted sweeping reforms to the U.S. healthcare industry, including mandatory health insurance, reforms to Medicare and Medicaid, the creation of large insurance purchasing groups, new taxes on medical equipment manufacturers and other significant modifications to the healthcare delivery system. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of the new federal legislation and its implementation, we cannot predict what impact the Healthcare Act may have on us, our customers or our industry. We rely heavily on our proprietary technology, which if not properly protected or if deemed invalid, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the maintenance and protection of our proprietary technology and rely on exclusive development and supply agreements, confidentiality procedures, and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect it. There can be no assurance that the legal protections and precautions taken by us will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that competitors will not independently develop technologies equivalent or superior to ours. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and are often not enforced as vigorously as those in the United States. We do not believe that our operations or products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement or trade secret claims against us with respect to our current or future products. Successful assertions or claims by others could require us to enter into a license agreement or royalty arrangement with the party asserting the claim or to cease our use of the infringing technology, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global economic environment may impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Changes in the global economic environment have caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition should they cause, for example, current or potential customers to become unable to fund purchases of our products, in turn resulting in delays, decreases or cancellations of purchases of our products and services, or causing the customer to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. In addition, financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities (including the timing and amount of any repurchases of our common stock or repayment of debt we may make in the future). Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. The industry in which we operate is subject to significant technological change and any failure or delay in addressing such change could adversely affect our competitive position or could make our current products obsolete. The medical device and motion control markets are generally characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards. New product development requires significant research and development expenditures that we have historically funded through sales growth. Any significant decrease in revenues or research funding could impair our ability to respond to technological advances in the marketplace and to remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. - 10 - Table of Contents Although we target new markets for access, develop new products and update existing products, there can be no assurance that we will do so successfully or that even if we are successful, such efforts will be completed concurrently with or prior to the introduction of competing products. Any such failure or delay could adversely affect our competitive position or could make our current products obsolete. We face risks and uncertainties associated with potential litigation by or against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We continually face the possibility of litigation as either a plaintiff or a defendant. It is not reasonably possible to estimate the awards or damages, or the range of awards or damages, if any, that we might incur in connection with such litigation. Many of our products are complex and technologically advanced. Such products may, from time to time, be the subject of claims concerning product performance and construction, including warranty claims. While we are committed to correcting such problems as soon as possible, there is no assurance that solutions will be found on a timely basis, if at all, to satisfy customer demands and avoid potential claims or litigation. Also, due to the location of our facilities, as well as the nature of our business activities, there is a risk that we could be subject to litigation related to environmental remediation claims. The uncertainty associated with potential litigation may have an adverse impact on our business. In particular, litigation could impair our relationships with existing customers and our ability to obtain new customers. Defending or prosecuting litigation could result in a diversion of management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that litigation would not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Our products may be subject to product liability legal claims which may cost us significant amounts in money, and management time and resources. We maintain insurance to protect against claims associated with the use of our products, but there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will adequately cover any claim asserted against us. Our products are complex and used in industries (including, but not limited to, aircraft [with respect to fractional horsepower motors manufactured prior to our sale of this product line in February 2012], medical and dental) where the malfunction of one of our products could subject us to claims regarding death or serious bodily injury. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant expenditures of funds in litigation, and of management time and resources. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to product liability claims, that such claims will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Such claims or the unavailability of appropriate insurance could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are dependent upon our key personnel. If such personnel were to leave unexpectedly, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom have been with us for a significant period of time. Because we have a relatively small number of employees when compared to other leading companies in the same industry, our dependence on maintaining our relationship with key employees is particularly significant. We are also dependent on our ability to attract and retain high quality personnel, particularly in the areas of product development, operations management, marketing and finance. A high level of employee mobility and the aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel characterize the medical device and motion control industries. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us. Loss of services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may need to grant additional stock options to key employees and provide other forms of incentive compensation to attract and retain such key personnel. - 11 - Table of Contents The failure to maintain the market price of our common stock may affect our ability to remain a publicly-traded company on the NASDAQ exchange. The minimum bid price for our publicly traded common stock was below $1.00 for a significant period of time throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, ultimately resulting in us effecting a one-for-three reverse split of our common stock on June 17, 2010 to increase our stock price to satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price listing requirement of the Nasdaq Capital Market. Notwithstanding the increased price of our common stock that resulted from the reverse split, our future performance, general market conditions and other factors could result in us failing to satisfy the listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future. If our common stock were to be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our shareholders may find it difficult to either dispose, or obtain quotations for the price, of our common stock. Two of our shareholders, acting jointly, have announced their intent to nominate candidates for election to our Board of Directors in opposition to the candidates they anticipate to be nominated by our Board of Directors. In the event of a contested election for directors, we could incur increased costs, significant management distraction, loss of key employees and delays in our customers entering into contracts with us that would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Two of our shareholders, acting jointly, have announced their intent to nominate three individuals, none of whom currently serve on our Board of Directors, as candidates for election to our Board of Directors at our next annual meeting of shareholders in opposition to the director candidates they anticipate will be nominated by our Board of Directors. Should these two shareholders proceed with their stated intent, it is possible that a contested election for directors will result, which could significantly distract management from its normal operational duties and cause us to incur materially increased costs related to proxy solicitation, legal advice, and litigation. In addition, the election of all three of their nominees could trigger a change of control (a) as defined in Change of Control Agreements we have entered into with members our management group, thus requiring payments as set forth in the Change of Control Agreements in the event of the termination, as defined therein, of any members of our management group; (b) as defined in our stock option plans, thus allowing for the acceleration of vesting of all stock options and shares of restricted stock outstanding on the date of such election; and (c) as defined in certain of our contacts with customers, thus allowing for the termination of those contracts. The possibility of management distraction, increased costs and change of control as described above could adversely affect our results of operations and make it difficult for us to retain our management, employees, and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance, compliance with which could be costly and time consuming. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance. Based on our reading and interpretations of relevant guidance, principles or concepts issued by, among other authorities, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, management believes our performance, including current sales contract terms and business arrangements, has been properly reported. However, there continue to be issued interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant standards to a wide range of contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in the industries in which we operate. Future interpretations or changes by the regulators of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our accounting policies and practices that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. Our evaluation of internal controls and remediation of potential problems is costly and time consuming and could expose weaknesses in financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, requires management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. This process is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention of management. Management can give no assurance that material weaknesses in internal controls will not be discovered. If a material weakness is discovered, corrective action may be time consuming and costly, and could further divert the attention of management. The disclosure of a material weakness, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price, especially if a restatement of financial statements for past periods is required. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 