Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We face significant competition from a number of different sources which could negatively impact our results of operations and business conditions. The markets for healthcare, factory automation and small motor manufacturing industries are intensely competitive, and we face significant competition from a number of different sources. Several of our competitors have significantly greater name recognition as well as substantially greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources than us. We compete in all of our markets with other major healthcare, factory automation and small motor manufacturing related companies. Competitive pressures and other factors, such as new product or new technology introductions by us or our competitors may result in price or market share erosion that could have a material adverse effect on the our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, there can be no assurance that our products and services will achieve broad market acceptance or will successfully compete with other products. Our quarterly results can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter which may negatively impact the price of our shares and/or provide significant variances in the prices at which such shares trade. Our revenues have fluctuated in the past, and may fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and period to period, as a result of a number of factors including, without limitation: the size and timing of orders from customers; the length of new product development cycles; market acceptance of new technologies; the extent and timing of eligible product returned for repair or replacement under warranty coverage; changes in pricing policies or price reductions by us or our competitors; the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us or our competitors; the financial stability of major customers; our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs; acceleration or deferrals of customer orders and deliveries; changes in our strategy; personnel changes; and general market/economic factors. - 8 - Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of sales can cause significant fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that interim period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future quarter(s), our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our Common Stock would likely be materially adversely affected. A substantial portion of our business is derived from our three core business areas which, if not serviced properly, may result in a material adverse impact upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently derive a substantial part of our net revenues from sales of our medical device, motion control and small motor products and related services. We believe that a primary factor in the market acceptance of our product and services is the value that is created for our customers by those products and related services. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on our ability to continue to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers through the timely development, successful introduction and implementation of new and enhanced products and services. We have historically expended a significant percentage of our net revenues on product development and believe that significant continued product development efforts will be required to sustain our growth. Continued investment in our sales and marketing efforts will also be required to support future growth. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product development efforts, that the market will continue to accept our existing products, or that new products or product enhancements will be developed and implemented in a timely manner, meet the requirements of our customers, or achieve market acceptance. If new products or product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We have recently violated certain credit facility covenants (and risk violating additional credit facility covenants in the future), which resulted in an event of default under our credit facilities and could have resulted in the acceleration of all amounts owing under all of our credit facilities, the loss of one or more of credit facilities and the need for us to seek alternative financing. Our credit facilities with our banks contain certain covenants concerning our financial performance. The failure to comply with any one or more of these covenants can result in an event of default, the acceleration of all amounts due, and the termination of each such credit facility. In addition, each of our credit facilities with Wells Fargo and Union Bank contain cross-default provisions that result in a default under one facility causing an immediate default under the other facility. Historically, on those occasions on which we have failed to comply with our credit facility covenants, we have been granted waivers of the applicable covenants by our banks. Most recently, Wells Fargo Bank first agreed to forbear, and ultimately waived exercising its rights in connection with a default resulting from our violation of profitability covenants for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Union Bank waived our violation of cash flow coverage covenant under the Union Bank credit facility for the year ended June 30, 2009. - 9 - The Wells Fargo forbearance was accompanied by a reduction by Wells Fargo in our line of credit from $4 million to $1 million during the forbearance period. A forbearance is not a waiver and Wells Fargo reserved its rights with respect to the default caused by the covenant violations during the forbearance period. During the forbearance period, Wells Fargo conducted a collateral audit and an analysis of our fixed assets to determine whether, and under what conditions, it might be willing to waive the then-existing covenant violations. All defaults under the credit facility for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 were ultimately waived and the credit facility was amended to maintain the availability of the line of credit at $1 million. The terms of the line of credit were amended to include converting the availability to a borrowing amount based on eligible accounts receivable and inventory if the amounts borrowed exceeded $500,000. Prior to the waiver, Wells Fargo had the right to exercise all of its rights and remedies under the credit facility, including its option to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility (which as of September 11, 2009 consists of approximately $1,667,000 under the term loan component of the facility) immediately due and payable and, if not timely paid in full, foreclosing on substantially all of our assets in such amounts to satisfy the amount owing to them. We did not believe that we possessed sufficient cash on hand that would enable us to pay all amounts outstanding under the Wells Fargo facility should it exercise its right to declare all such amounts immediately due and payable. The March 31, 2009 default under the Wells Fargo facility resulted in a cross-default under our Union Bank credit facility. We have received a waiver of this instance of the March 31, 2009 cross-default and a waiver of the June 30, 2009 cash flow coverage covenant violation from Union Bank Either default, if not waived, could have caused the entire amount owing under the Union Bank facility (approximately $1,552.000 as of September 11, 2009) to become immediately due and payable. As of September 11, 2009, There are no remaining un-waived covenant violations under either credit facility. The effects of the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results or financial condition. The recent global economic crisis has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases of our products, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. In addition, financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities (including the timing and amount of any repurchases of our common stock or debt we may make in the future). Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. The industry in which we operate is subject to significant technological change and any failure or delay in addressing such change could adversely affect our competitive position or could make our current products obsolete. The healthcare, factory automation and small motor markets are generally characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render the Company's existing products obsolete and unmarketable. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards. New product development requires significant research and development expenditures that are ultimately funded by sales growth. Any significant decrease in revenues or research funding could impair our ability to respond to technological advances in the marketplace and to remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. - 10 - In response to increasing market demand, we are currently developing new products and updating existing products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop these new products or that these products will operate successfully, or that any such development, even if successful, will be completed concurrently with or prior to the introduction of competing products. Any such failure or delay could adversely affect our competitive position or could make our current products obsolete. We face the risks and uncertainties that are associated with litigation against us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We continually face the possibility of litigation as either a plaintiff or a defendant. It is not reasonably possible to estimate the awards or damages, or the range of awards or damages, if any, that we might incur in connection with such litigation. The uncertainty associated with potential litigation may have an adverse impact on our business. In particular, such litigation could impair our relationships with existing customers and our ability to obtain new customers. Defending or prosecuting such litigation may result in a diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our products are complex and technologically advanced. Such products may, from time to time, be the subject of claims concerning product performance and construction, including warranty claims. While we are committed to correcting such problems as soon as possible, there is no assurance that solutions can be found or found on a timely basis to satisfy customer demands and avoid potential claims or litigation. Such matters could have a material and adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the location of our facilities as well as our business activities, we may face the risk of litigation related to environmental remediation claims. Defending or prosecuting such litigation may result in a diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition  even if we are ultimately found to be without fault. There can be no assurance that such litigation will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. We rely heavily on our proprietary technology which, if not properly protected or deemed invalid, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property and rely on exclusive development and supply agreements, confidentiality procedures, and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the legal protections and precautions taken by us will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that competitors will not independently develop technologies equivalent or superior to ours. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and are often not enforced as vigorously as those in the United States. We do not believe that our operations or products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement or trade secret claims against us with respect to our current or future products or that any such assertion will not require us to enter into a license agreement or royalty arrangement with the party asserting the claim. - 11 - Our failure to manage growth could harm us by having a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have in the past experienced periods of growth that have placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our resources. We also anticipate expanding our overall development, marketing, sales, management and training capacity as market demand requires. In the event we are unable to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals in such capacities within a reasonable timeframe, such failure could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our ability to manage future increases, in the scope of our operations or personnel may depend on significant expansion of our research and development, marketing and sales, management, and administrative and financial capabilities. The ineffective management of expansion in the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are dependent upon our key personnel. If such personnel were to leave unexpectedly, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future performance also depends in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom have been with us for a significant period of time. We maintain term key man life insurance policies for the CEO, the Executive Vice President who holds primary responsibility for Business Development, and the head of the Beaverton operations. Because we have a relatively small number of employees when compared to other leading companies in the same industry, our dependence on maintaining our relationship with key employees is particularly significant. We are also dependent on our ability to attract and retain high quality personnel, particularly in the areas of product development, operations management, marketing and finance. A high level of employee mobility and the aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel characterize the healthcare and motion control industries. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us. Loss of services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may need to grant additional stock options to key employees and provide other forms of incentive compensation to attract and retain such key personnel. Our products may be subject to product liability legal claims which may cost us significant amounts in both money and management time and resources. We maintain insurance to protect against claims associated with the use of our products, but there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will adequately cover any claim asserted against us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds in litigation and management time and resources. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to product liability claims, that such claims will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Such claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our evaluation of internal control and remediation of potential problems will be costly and time consuming and could expose weaknesses in financial reporting. - 12 - The regulations implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2009. In the future, our independent auditors will be required to confirm in writing whether management's assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects, and separately report on whether they believe management maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2010. This process will be expensive and time consuming, and will require significant attention of management. Management can give no assurance that material weaknesses in internal controls will not be discovered. If a material weakness is discovered, corrective action may be time consuming, costly and further divert the attention of management. The disclosure of a material weakness, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price, especially if a restatement of financial statements for past periods is required. Our business and per share price may be adversely effected if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified by ourselves or our independent auditors. Any weaknesses identified in our internal controls as part of the evaluation being undertaken by us and our registered independent public accountants pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business, and subsequently our per share price. We are in the process of evaluating and documenting our controls pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are working toward being fully compliant with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act at the time it applies to us. Failure to comply could have a material adverse affect on our business, per share price, financial condition, and our ability to remain listed as a publicly held exchange traded company. The failure to raise the market price of our common stock may affect our ability to remain a publicly-traded company. The minimum bid price for our publicly traded common stock has remained below $1.00 for a significant period of time during late 2008 and throughout 2009. Although Nasdaq had suspended its minimum bid requirement in October 2008, Nasdaq lifted that suspension on August 3, 2009 and we again face a delisting deadline date of January 7, 2010. If the minimum bid price for our stock does not rise above $1.00 for the requisite number of days prior to such deadline or if we fail to meet any other listing requirement of the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. On January 9, 2009, our shareholders authorized us to engage in a reverse split of our Common Stock which may, as a result of increasing our per share price above $1.00, provide us the means to avoid delisting. As the delisting deadline approaches and if the market price of our shares remains below $1.00, our Board of Directors will continue its review of the advisability of proceeding with a reverse split of our Common Stock or other appropriate actions. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance, compliance with which could be costly and time consuming. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance. Based on our reading and interpretations of relevant guidance, principles or concepts issued by, among other authorities, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, our management believes our performance, including current sales contract terms and business arrangements have been properly reported. However, there continue to be issued interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant standards to a wide range of contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in the industries in which we operate. Future interpretations or changes by the regulators of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our accounting policies and practices that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. - 13 - A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers such that if we were to lose one, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have few significant customers that contribute a significant portion of our revenue. Our loss of one or more of such customers could severely impact us, including a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 