risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the company and its businesses. We may not be able to complete the tax-free stock distribution of BHS to our shareholders. Our plan is to distribute the shares of BHS (the "spin-off") to the shareholders of The Brink's Company in the fourth quarter of 2008. The spin-off is subject to a number of conditions, and there may be reasons why the spin-off is not able to be completed within our anticipated time frame or at all, including not receiving appropriate assurances that the distribution will be tax free to the shareholders of The Brink’s Company. If the spin-off is not completed, or is not completed within our anticipated time frame, the share price of The Brink’s Company could be adversely affected. The Company has not yet determined certain significant characteristics of the contemplated spin-off of BHS to our shareholders. The spin-off is subject to a number of conditions, including execution of appropriate inter-company agreements between the Company and BHS. These agreements will address a number of significant matters, among other things, the allocation of assets and liabilities between the Company and BHS and other similar matters. In particular, the Company has not yet determined whether the BRINKS brand will be shared by BHS and the Company, or if BHS will be rebranded. The alternative branding possibilities include BHS paying royalties to The Brink’s Company, BHS rebranding itself without using the BRINKS brand, or other possibilities. The decisions regarding the manner in which BHS will be separated from the Company in the spin-off could affect the future results of operations of the Company and the prospective BHS company. For example, the Company may not fully control the use of the BRINKS brand in the future, which could also affect the long-term value of the brand, and, accordingly, the long-term value of the Company. Completing the spin-off will require significant resources. The contemplated spin-off of BHS to our shareholders will require significant Company resources, and the Company expects corporate expense in 2008 to be higher as a result of professional fees associated with the spin-off. In addition, completing the spin-off will require significant attention from our management, which could divert focus from other aspects of the Company’s business and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.The Company has significant operations outside the United States. We currently operate in approximately 50 countries. Revenue outside the U.S. was over 60% of total revenue in 2007. We expect revenue outside the U.S. to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue. Business operations outside the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, such as: · the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations · required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations · changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets · threat of nationalization and expropriation · higher costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions · limitations on the repatriation of earnings · fluctuations in equity and revenues due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates We try to effectively manage these risks by monitoring current and anticipating future political and economic developments and adjusting operations as appropriate. Changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in highly competitive industries. We compete in industries that are subject to significant competition and pricing pressures. Brink’s faces significant pricing pressures from competitors in most markets. BHS experiences competitive pricing pressures on installation and monitoring rates. Because we believe we have competitive advantages such as brand name recognition and a reputation for a high level of service and security, we resist competing on price alone. However, continued pricing pressure could impact our customer base or pricing structure and have an adverse effect on results of operations. Weak economies could reduce demand for our services and increase BHS’ disconnect rate. If economies weaken in regions where we provide our Brink’s and BHS services, demand for our services may lessen. In addition, current home security customers may decide to disconnect our services in an effort to reduce their household spending. If this happens, our revenues, operating profit and cash flow could decline, and subscriber growth at BHS could suffer. 15 Brink’s earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by increased losses of customer valuables. Brink's purchases insurance coverage for losses of customer valuables for amounts in excess of what it considers prudent deductibles and/or retentions. Insurance is provided by different groups of underwriters at negotiated rates and terms. Coverage is available to Brink’s in major insurance markets, although premiums charged are subject to fluctuations depending on market conditions. The loss experience of Brink’s and other armored carriers affects premium rates charged to Brink’s. Brink’s is self-insured for losses below its coverage limits and recognizes expense up to these limits for actual losses. Brink’s insurance policies cover losses from most causes, with the exception of war, nuclear risk and various other exclusions typical for such policies. The availability of high-quality and reliable insurance coverage is an important factor in order for Brink's to obtain and retain customers and to manage the risks of its business. If our losses increase, or if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Restructuring charges may be required in the future. There is a possibility we will take restructuring actions in one of our markets in the future to reduce expenses if a major customer is lost or if recurring operating losses continue. These actions could result in significant restructuring charges at these subsidiaries, including recognizing impairment charges to write down assets, and recording accruals for employee severance and operating leases. These charges, if required, could significantly affect results of operations and cash flows. The Company depends heavily on the availability of fuel and the ability to pass higher fuel costs to customers. Fuel prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. In some periods, the Company’s operating profit has been adversely affected because it is not able to immediately fully offset the impact of higher fuel prices through increased prices or fuel surcharges. The Company does not have any long-term fuel purchase contracts, and has not entered into any other hedging arrangements that protect against fuel price increases. Volatile fuel prices and potential increases in fuel taxes will continue to affect the Company. A significant increase in fuel costs and an inability to pass increases on to customers or a shortage of fuel could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. BHS may not be able to sustain the expansion of its subscriber base at recently achieved growth rates. BHS has a history of significantly increasing its subscriber base each year as a result of growth in new installations and a relatively low number of subscriber disconnects. The majority of our subscribers are residents of single-family households and we intend to continue to grow our subscriber base through a number of sales channels, including relationships with new home builders. As a result, BHS’ business benefited from strong growth in the housing market through 2005. The housing market experienced a downturn in 2006 and 2007, and a continued downturn in the housing market (new construction and/or resale of existing houses) could have an impact on our ability to continue to maintain strong growth in the subscriber base. In addition, our disconnect rate has been favorably affected in the past several years by the cumulative effect of improved subscriber selection and retention processes and high-quality customer service. A substantial number of disconnects cannot be prevented, including, for example, disconnects that occur because of customer moves. If we fail to continue to provide high-quality service or take other actions that have improved the disconnect rates in the past, the disconnect rate could increase, and the subscriber base growth rate could suffer. Slower growth in the subscriber base from materially lower installations and/or materially higher disconnects could adversely affect results of operations. The Company has significant obligations and liabilities related to its former coal operations. The Company has substantial pension and retiree medical obligations, many of which arose during its long history of operating in the coal industry. The Company has contributed cash to segregated trusts that pay benefits to satisfy these obligations. The Company may have to make additional contributions to fund the obligations. The amount of these obligations is significantly impacted by factors that are not in the Company’s control, including interest rates used to determine the present value of future payment streams, investment returns, medical inflation rates, participation rates and changes in laws and regulations. Changes in any of these factors could have a significant effect on the amount of the Company’s obligations and could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company also has ongoing reclamation and remediation obligations, the future cost of which is from time to time reviewed and adjusted, as necessary. The Company may also incur future environmental and other liabilities that are presently unknown in connection with these former operations. BHS intends to grow new lines of business and operating margins may suffer. BHS intends to expand its presence in commercial alarm installation and monitoring. As a result, the cost of investment in new subscribers may continue to grow faster than installations and related revenue as BHS develops the resources needed to achieve its objectives. If BHS is unable to increase the subscriber base while incurring the additional investment costs, BHS’ results of operations would be adversely affected. 16 BHS’ earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by a sudden shift in its customers’ selection of voice and data communications services. BHS’ operating model relies on its customers’ selection and continued payment for high quality, reliable telecommunications services. In recent years, a small but increasing number of existing customers and prospective new customers exclusively use wireless telephone service within their homes. Although BHS monitoring service can be connected using wireless telephone service, its solution is more expensive to the customer than its traditional product and service package that uses wire-line telecommunications. In this scenario, customer dissatisfaction could increase, driving up BHS’ disconnect rate, as wireless service may be less reliable depending on the performance of the wireless service provider. If there were a sudden shift to such wireless services by a significant portion of BHS’ existing subscriber base, BHS’ results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. BHS’ earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by penalties assessed for false alarms. BHS believes its false alarm rate compares favorably to many other companies’ rates. Some local governments impose assessments, fines, penalties and limitations on either subscribers or the alarm companies for false alarms. A few municipalities have adopted ordinances under which both permit and alarm dispatch fees are charged directly to the alarm companies. BHS’ alarm service contracts generally allow BHS to pass these charges on to customers. If more local governments were to impose assessments, fines or penalties, and BHS was not able to pass the increase in costs to its customers, the growth of BHS’ subscriber base could be adversely affected. BHS’ earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by the refusal of police departments to automatically respond to calls from monitored security service companies. Police departments in a limited number of U.S. cities are not required to automatically respond to calls from monitored security service companies unless an emergency has been visually verified. BHS has offered affected customers the option of receiving response from private guard companies, which in most cases have contracted with BHS. This increases the overall cost to customers. If more police departments were to refuse to automatically respond to calls from monitored security service companies without visual verification, BHS’ ability to retain subscribers could be negatively impacted and results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. BHS relies on third party providers for the components of its security systems. The components for the security systems that BHS installs are manufactured by third parties. BHS is therefore susceptible to interruptions in supply and to the receipt of components that do not meet BHS’ high standards. BHS mitigates these risks through the selection of vendors with strong reputations for producing quality products. However, any interruption in supply could cause delays in installations and repairs and the loss of current and potential customers. Also, if a previously installed component were found to be defective, BHS might not be able to recover the costs associated with its repair or replacement and the diversion of BHS’ technical force to address such an issue could affect subscriber and revenue growth. BHS is exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. Substantially all of BHS’ alarm monitoring product sales or services agreements contain provisions limiting liability to customers in an attempt to reduce this risk. However, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, there can be no assurance that these limitations will be enforced. BHS carries insurance of various types, including general liability and professional liability insurance in amounts management considers adequate and customary for the industry. Some of BHS’ insurance policies, and the laws of some states, may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages, or liability arising from gross negligence. If the Company incurs increased losses related to employee acts or omissions, or system failure, or if the Company is unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, or if the Company is unable to receive reimbursements from insurance carriers, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s business operates in regulated industries. The U.S. operations of Brink's are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation with respect to safety of operations and equipment and financial responsibility. Intrastate operations in the U.S. are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities and intraprovince operations in Canada are subject to regulation by Canadian and provincial regulatory authorities. Brink's International operations are regulated to varying degrees by the countries in which they operate. BHS and its employees are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local consumer protection, licensing and other laws and regulations. Most states in which BHS operates have licensing laws directed specifically toward the monitored security services industry. BHS' business relies heavily upon wireline telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline telephone companies are currently regulated by both the federal and state governments. BHS' Canadian operation is subject to the laws of Canada, British Columbia and Alberta. Changes in laws or regulations could require the Company to change the way it operates, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of the Company’s operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or the Company failed to comply, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 17 The Company could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome related to non-payment of value-added taxes and custom duties. During 2004, the Company determined that one of its non-U.S. Brink's business units had not paid foreign customs duties and value-added taxes with respect to the importation of various goods and services. The Company has been advised that there could be civil and criminal penalties asserted for the non-payment of these customs duties and value-added taxes. To date no penalties have been asserted. The Company believes that the range of reasonably possible losses related to customs duties penalties is between $0 and approximately $35 million. These penalties could be asserted at any time. The business unit has discussed this matter with the appropriate government authorities, provided an accounting of unpaid customs duties and taxes and made payments covering its calculated unpaid value added taxes. An adverse outcome in this matter could materially affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has retained obligations from the sale of BAX Global. In January 2006 the Company sold BAX Global. The Company retained some of the obligations related to these operations, primarily for taxes owed prior to the date of sale and for any amounts paid related to one pending litigation matter for which losses could be between $0 and $11 million at the date of sale. In addition, the Company provided indemnification customary for these sorts of transactions. Future unfavorable developments related to these matters could require the Company to record additional expenses or make cash payments in excess of recorded liabilities. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to covenants for credit facilities. The Company has credit facilities with financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, limits on the ability to pledge assets, limits on the use of proceeds of asset sales and minimum coverage of interest costs. Although the Company believes none of these covenants are presently restrictive to operations, the ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by changes in the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will meet these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under existing credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities, the lenders could cause amounts outstanding to be immediately payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. The occurrence of these events would have a significant impact on the Company’s liquidity and cash flows. The Company’s effective income tax rate could change. The Company operates in approximately 50 countries, all of which have different income tax laws and associated income tax rates. The Company’s effective income tax rate can be significantly affected by changes in the mix of pretax earnings by country and the related income tax rates in those countries. In addition, the Company’s effective income tax rate is significantly affected by its estimate of its ability to realize deferred tax assets, including those associated with net operating losses. Changes in income tax laws, income apportionment, or estimates of the ability to realize deferred tax assets, could significantly affect the Company’s effective income tax rate, financial position and results of operations. Forward-Looking Information This document contains both historical and forward-looking information. Words such as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “may,” “should” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking information. Forward-looking information in this document includes, but is not limited to, statements regarding the strategic decision to spin-off BHS, the tax free nature and other expected characteristics of the spin-off, competitive advantages at Brink’s and BHS, expected revenue growth, cash flow and earnings for The Brink’s Company and its subsidiaries in 2008 and through 2010, including revenue growth and operating profit margin at Brink’s and revenue, profit and subscriber growth at BHS, Brink’s pursuit of growth through acquisitions in new and existing markets, the differentiation of Cash Logistics services, Brink’s cost structure, the seasonality of Brink’s operating profit, employee relations, the lack of interruptions in the BHS supply chain, BHS’ dealer due diligence process, BHS’ continued expansion into the commercial market, the effectiveness of BHS’ customer care efforts on false alarms, customer satisfaction and retention, the disconnect rate at BHS, monitoring and service rates offered by BHS, significant liabilities and ongoing expenses and cash outflows related to former coal operations, the anticipated effective tax rate for 2008 and the Company’s future tax position, expected improved Brink’s performance in EMEA, actions to improve long-term performance, Brink’s expected revenue increases in Venezuela and the increased risk of operational issues, the effect of the U.S. economy on BHS’ performance, the future disconnect rate at BHS, instability in the housing and credit markets, anticipated difficulties in the BHT business, increased market share through expanded relationships with major home builders, possible increases in BHS’ investment per new subscriber, expected additional professional, legal and advisory fees in 2008, expenses and cash outflows related to former coal operations, expenses in continuing operations, future contributions to and use of the VEBA and expected investment returns on funds held by the VEBA, expected, future cash payments and expense levels for black lung obligations, projected payments and expense for the primary U.S. pension plan and its expected long-term rate of return, future pension plan contributions, anticipated dividends from a real estate investment, the assumption of additional liability by the buyer of Brink’s United Kingdom domestic cash handling operations, the impact of exchange rates, the possibility that Venezuela may be considered highly inflationary again, the possibility that Brink’s Venezuela may be subject to less favorable exchange rates on dividend remittances, capital expenditures in 2008, the adequacy of sources of liquidity to meet the Company’s near term requirements, estimated contractual obligations for the next five years, the Company’s borrowing capacity under the Letter of Credit Facility and the Revolving Facility, the Company’s provision for contingent income tax liabilities and interest, the outcome of pending litigation, the outcome of the issue relating to the non-payment of customs duties and value-added tax by a non-U.S. 18 subsidiary of Brink’s, Incorporated, future realization of deferred tax assets, the carrying value of Brink’s goodwill, estimates of future reconnection experience at BHS and the impact of any change in estimates on BHS’ impairment charges, estimated discount rates, the assumed inflation rate for a number of the Company’s benefit plans, the impact of recent and future accounting rule changes, the likelihood of losses due to non-performance by parties to hedging instruments, the use of earnings from foreign subsidiaries and equity affiliates, future recognition of unrecognized tax benefits and uncertain tax positions, and the contractual indemnities associated with the sale of BAX Global, involve forward-looking information which is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and contingencies, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements, to differ materially from those that are anticipated. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of The Brink’s Company and its subsidiaries, include, but are not limited to the ability of the Company to complete a successful spin-off of BHS, the satisfaction of all conditions in order to complete a spin-off of BHS, demand for the products and services of Brink’s and BHS, the ability to identify and execute further cost and operational improvements and efficiencies in the core businesses, the impact of continuing initiatives to control costs and increase profitability, the ability of the businesses to cost effectively match customer demand with appropriate resources, the willingness of Brink’s and BHS’ customers to absorb future price increases and the actions of competitors, the Company’s ability to identify strategic opportunities and integrate them successfully, acquisitions and dispositions made in the future, Brink’s ability to integrate recent acquisitions, corporate expenses due to the implementation of the spin-off decision and shareholder initiatives, decisions by the Company’s Board of Directors, Brink’s ability to perform currency conversion cash handling services in Venezuela successfully and without adverse operational issues, regulatory and labor issues and higher security threats in European countries, the impact of restructuring and other actions responding to current market conditions in European countries, the assumption of certain contractual obligations by the buyer of Brink’s United Kingdom domestic cash handling operations, the return to profitability of operations in jurisdictions where Brink’s has recorded valuation adjustments, the input of governmental authorities regarding the non-payment of customs duties and value-added tax, the stability of the Venezuelan economy and changes in Venezuelan policy regarding exchange rates for dividend remittances, variations in costs or expenses and performance delays of any public or private sector supplier, service provider or customer, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable prices, positions taken by insurers with respect to claims made and the financial condition of insurers, safety and security performance, Brink’s loss experience, changes in insurance costs, risks customarily associated with operating in foreign countries including changing labor and economic conditions, political instability, restrictions on repatriation of earnings and capital, nationalization, expropriation and other forms of restrictive government actions, costs associated with information technology and other ongoing contractual obligations, BHS’ ability to maintain subscriber growth, the number of household moves, the level of home sales or new home construction, potential instability in housing credit markets, the performance of BHS’ equipment suppliers and dealers, BHS’ ability to cost-effectively develop or incorporate new systems in a timely manner, decisions regarding continued support of the developing commercial business, the ability of the home security industry to dissuade law enforcement and municipalities from refusing to respond to alarms, the willingness of BHS’ customers to pay for private response personnel or other alternatives to police responses to alarms, estimated reconnection experience at BHS, costs associated with the purchase and implementation of cash processing and security equipment, changes in the scope or method of remediation or monitoring of the Company’s former coal operations, the timing of the pass-through of certain costs to third parties and the timing of approvals by governmental authorities relating to the disposal of the coal assets, changes to estimated liabilities and assets in actuarial assumptions due to payments made, investment returns, annual actuarial revaluations, and periodic revaluations of reclamation liabilities, the funding levels, accounting treatment, investment performance and costs of the company’s pension plans and the VEBA, whether the Company’s assets or the VEBA’s assets are used to pay benefits, projections regarding the number of participants in and beneficiaries of the Company’s employee and retiree benefit plans, black lung claims incidence, the number of dependents of mine workers for whom benefits are provided, actual retirement experience of the former coal operation’s employees, actual medical and legal expenses relating to benefits, changes in inflation rates (including medical inflation) and interest rates, changes in mortality and morbidity assumptions, mandatory or voluntary pension plan contributions, discovery of new facts relating to civil suits, the addition of claims or changes in relief sought by adverse parties, the cash, debt and tax position and growth needs of the Company, the demand for capital by the Company and the availability and cost of such capital, the satisfaction or waiver of limitations on the use of proceeds contained in various of the Company’s financing arrangements, the nature of the Company’s hedging relationships, the financial performance of the Company, utilization of third-party advisors and the ability of the Company to hire and retain corporate staff, changes in employee obligations, overall domestic and international economic, political, social and business conditions, capital markets performance, the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, foreign currency exchange rates, changes in estimates and assumptions underlying the Company’s critical accounting policies, as more fully described in the section “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” but including the likelihood that net deferred tax assets will be realized, discount rates, expectations of future performance, the timing of deductibility of expenses, inflation, and the promulgation and adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations, including SFAS 157, SFAS 159, SFAS 141(R), and SFAS 160, anticipated return on assets, inflation, the promulgation and adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations, seasonality, pricing and other competitive industry factors, labor relations, fuel and copper prices, new government regulations and interpretations of existing regulations, legislative initiatives, judicial decisions, issuance of permits, variations in costs or expenses and the ability of counterparties to perform. The information included in this document is representative only as of the date of this document, and The Brink’s Company undertakes no obligation to update any information contained in this document. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 