ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are exposed to risk in the operation of our businesses. Some of these risks are common to all companies doing business in the industries in which we operate and some are unique to our business. In addition, there are risks associated with investing in our common stock. These risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the company and its businesses. The weak economy is expected to have a negative impact on demand for our services. Global economic conditions have deteriorated significantly, and demand for our services is expected to be negatively impacted in regions where we provide our services. For example, demand for our services is significantly affected by the amount of discretionary consumer and business spending which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. Further deterioration in general global economic conditions would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, although it is difficult to predict the extent and the length of time the economic downturn will affect our business. The inability to access capital or significant increases in the cost of capital could adversely affect our business. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective financing depends on our credit ratings as well as the liquidity of financial markets. A negative change in our ratings outlook or any downgrade in our current investment-grade credit ratings by our rating agencies could adversely affect our cost and/or access to sources of liquidity and capital. Additionally, such a downgrade could increase the costs of borrowing under available credit lines. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term capital. Our access to funds under short-term credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Longer disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our business. We have significant retirement obligations. Poor investment performance of retirement plan holdings could unfavorably affect our liquidity and results of operations. We have substantial pension and retiree medical obligations, a portion of which have been funded. The amount of these obligations is significantly affected by factors that are not in our control, including interest rates used to determine the present value of future payment streams, investment returns, medical inflation rates, participation rates and changes in laws and regulations. Our liabilities for these plans increased by $465 million in 2008 primarily as a result of significant decline in value of plan investments. The funded status of our primary U.S. pension plan was 59% at the end of 2008. As a result, we expect that we will be required to contribute a significant amount of cash to our primary U.S. pension plan in the next several years. This could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to use our resources to make acquisitions and to otherwise grow our business. We also expect our future net periodic costs of our retirement plans will be adversely affected by the investment losses sustained in 2008. If these investments have additional losses, our future cash requirements and costs for these plans will be further adversely affected. 9 We have significant operations outside the United States. We currently operate in approximately 50 countries. Revenue outside the U.S. was approximately 70% of total revenue in 2008. We expect revenue outside the U.S. to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue. Business operations outside the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, such as · the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations · required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations · changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets · threat of nationalization and expropriation · higher costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions · limitations on the repatriation of earnings · fluctuations in equity, revenues and profits due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including measures taken by governments to devalue official currency exchange rates · inflation levels exceeding that of the U.S. We are exposed to certain risks when we operate in countries that have high levels of inflation, including the risk that · the rate of price increases for services will not keep pace with cost inflation · adverse economic conditions may discourage business growth which could affect demand for our services · the devaluation of the currency may exceed the rate of inflation and reported U.S. dollar revenues and profits may decline. We try to manage these risks by monitoring current and anticipated political and economic developments and adjusting operations as appropriate. Changes in the political or economic environments of the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in highly competitive industries. We compete in industries that are subject to significant competition and pricing pressures. We face significant pricing pressures from competitors in most markets. Because we believe we have competitive advantages such as brand name recognition and a reputation for a high level of service and security, we resist competing on price alone. However, continued pricing pressure could impact our customer base or pricing structure and have an adverse effect on results of operations. Our earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by increased losses of customer valuables. We purchase insurance coverage for losses of customer valuables for amounts in excess of what we consider prudent deductibles and/or retentions. Insurance is provided by different groups of underwriters at negotiated rates and terms. Coverage is available to us in major insurance markets, although premiums charged are subject to fluctuations depending on market conditions. Our loss experience and that of other armored carriers affects premium rates charged to us. We are self-insured for losses below our coverage limits and recognize expense up to these limits for actual losses. Our insurance policies cover losses from most causes, with the exception of war, nuclear risk and various other exclusions typical for such policies. The availability of high-quality and reliable insurance coverage is an important factor in order for us to obtain and retain customers and to manage the risks of our business. If our losses increase, or if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Restructuring charges may be required in the future. There is a possibility we will take restructuring actions in one of our markets in the future to reduce expenses if a major customer is lost or if recurring operating losses continue. These actions could result in significant restructuring charges at these subsidiaries, including recognizing impairment charges to write down assets, and recording accruals for employee severance and operating leases. These charges, if required, could significantly affect results of operations and cash flows. 10 We depend heavily on the availability of fuel and the ability to pass higher fuel costs to customers. Fuel prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. In some periods, our operating profit has been adversely affected because we are not able to immediately offset the full impact of higher fuel prices through increased prices or fuel surcharges. We do not have any long-term fuel purchase contracts, and have not entered into any other hedging arrangements that protect against fuel price increases. A significant increase in fuel costs and an inability to pass increases on to customers or a shortage of fuel could adversely affect our results of operations. We have certain environmental and other exposures related to our former coal operations. We may incur future environmental and other liabilities that are presently unknown in connection with our former coal operations. We operate in regulated industries. Our U.S. operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation with respect to safety of operations and equipment and financial responsibility. Intrastate operations in the U.S. are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities and interprovincial operations in Canada are subject to regulation by Canadian and provincial regulatory authorities. Our International operations are regulated to varying degrees by the countries in which we operate. Changes in laws or regulations could require a change in the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or we failed to comply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome related to non-payment of value-added taxes and custom duties. During 2004, we determined that one of our non-U.S. business units had not paid foreign customs duties and value-added taxes with respect to the importation of various goods and services. We have been advised that there could be civil and criminal penalties asserted for the non-payment of these customs duties and value-added taxes. To date no penalties have been asserted. We believe that the range of reasonably possible losses related to customs duties penalties is between $0 and approximately $35 million. These penalties could be asserted at any time. The business unit has discussed this matter with the appropriate government authorities, provided an accounting of unpaid customs duties and taxes and made payments covering its calculated unpaid value added taxes. An adverse outcome in this matter could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have retained obligations from the sale of BAX Global. In January 2006 we sold BAX Global. We retained some of the obligations related to these operations, primarily for taxes owed prior to the date of sale and for any amounts paid related to one pending litigation matter for which losses could be between $0 and $14 million at the date of sale. In addition, we provided indemnification customary for these sorts of transactions. Future unfavorable developments related to these matters could require us to record additional expenses or make cash payments in excess of recorded liabilities. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 We are subject to covenants for credit facilities. We have credit facilities with financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, limits on the ability to pledge assets, limits on the use of proceeds of asset sales and minimum coverage of interest costs. Although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to operations, the ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by changes in our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot provide assurance that we will meet these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under existing credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities, the lenders could cause amounts outstanding to be immediately payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. The occurrence of these events would have a significant impact on our liquidity and cash flows. Acquisitions. One element of our growth strategy is to strengthen our brand portfolio and/or expand our geographic reach through active programs of selective acquisitions. Acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, that all future acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings or that future acquisitions will be rapidly integrated into existing operations. Our effective income tax rate could change. We operate in approximately 50 countries, all of which have different income tax laws and associated income tax rates. Our effective income tax rate can be significantly affected by changes in the mix of pretax earnings by country and the related income tax rates in those countries. In addition, our effective income tax rate is significantly affected by the ability to realize deferred tax assets, including those associated with net operating losses. Changes in income tax laws, income apportionment, or estimates of the ability to realize deferred tax assets, could significantly affect our effective income tax rate, financial position and results of operations. Our performance could be negatively impacted by the spin-off of BHS, which was completed in 2008. In connection with the BHS spin-off, we received both a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and a favorable opinion from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. However, the IRS could subsequently determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, it could have a material adverse tax impact on us as well as on our shareholders. We also entered into certain agreements with BHS that could potentially affect our ability to conduct our operations in the manner most advantageous to us until the expiration of such agreements. We have agreed to license certain trademarks that contain the word “Brink’s” to BHS until October 31, 2011, subject to earlier termination. We also have agreed not to compete with BHS in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico with respect to certain activities related to BHS’s security system monitoring and surveillance business until October 31, 2013. 12 Forward-Looking Statements This document contains both historical and forward-looking information. Words such as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “may,” “should” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking information. Forward-looking information in this document includes, but is not limited to, statements regarding expected revenue growth and earnings for The Brink’s Company, including organic revenue growth and operating profit margin in 2009 and long-term organic revenue growth and operating profit margin, the pursuit of growth through acquisitions in new and existing markets, the differentiation of Brink’s Cash Logistics services, Brink’s cost structure, the seasonality of Brink’s operating profit, employee relations, significant liabilities and ongoing expenses and cash outflows related to retirement medical plans of former coal operations, customer demand for Brink’s services, the impact of the global economic slowdown, anticipated expenses related to retirement plans, Brink’s improving position in North America, expected corporate expenses, net, potential changes in foreign currency exchange rates, customer outsourcing efforts, the anticipated effective tax rate for 2009 and the Company’s future tax position, operating profit pressures in Europe, expenses related to former operations, expected trademark royalties from BHS, future interest expense, anticipated dividends from a real estate investment, the impact of exchange rates, the possibility that Venezuela may be considered highly inflationary again, the possibility that Brink’s Venezuela may be subject to less favorable exchange rates or that the bolivar fuerte may be devalued, projected contributions and expense for the primary U.S. pension plan and its expected long-term rate of return, capital expenditures in 2009, future depreciation and amortization, the ability to meet liquidity needs, estimated contractual obligations for the next five years and beyond, future contributions to and use of the VEBA and expected investment returns on funds held by the VEBA, the Company’s borrowing capacity under the Letter of Credit Facility and the Revolving Facility, contractual indemnities associated with the sale of BAX Global and the spin-off of BHS, surety bond renewals and premium levels, the outcome of the issue relating to the non-payment of customs duties and value-added tax by a non-U.S. subsidiary of Brink’s, Incorporated, the outcome of pending litigation and the anticipated financial impact of the disposition of these matters, future realization of deferred tax assets, the carrying value of goodwill, estimated discount rates, the assumed inflation rate for a number of the Company’s benefit plans, the impact of recent and future accounting rule changes, the likelihood of losses due to non-performance by parties to hedging instruments, the use of earnings from foreign subsidiaries and equity affiliates, future recognition of unrecognized tax benefits and uncertain tax positions, and expected future cash payments and expense levels for black lung obligations. Forward-looking information in this document is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and contingencies, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those that are anticipated. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of The Brink’s Company and its subsidiaries, include, but are not limited to the impact of a potential global economic slowdown on the Company’s business opportunities, access to the credit markets and funding requirements for pension plans and other employee benefits, the recent market volatility and its impact on the demand for the services of Brink’s, the implementation of investments in technology and value-added services and cost reduction efforts and their impact on revenue and profit growth, the ability to identify and execute further cost and operational improvements and efficiencies in the core business, the ability to cost effectively match customer demand with appropriate resources, the willingness of Brink’s customers to absorb fuel surcharges and other future price increases, the actions of competitors, the Company’s ability to identify strategic opportunities and integrate them successfully, acquisitions and dispositions made in the future, Brink’s ability to integrate recent acquisitions, decisions by the Company’s Board of Directors, regulatory and labor issues and higher security threats, the impact of turnaround actions responding to current conditions in Europe, the return to profitability of operations in jurisdictions where Brink’s has recorded valuation adjustments, the input of governmental authorities regarding the non-payment of customs duties and value-added tax, the stability of the Venezuelan economy and changes in Venezuelan policy regarding exchange rates, the potential for a devaluation of the bolivar fuerte, the absence of the currency conversion project in Venezuela, variations in costs or expenses and performance delays of any public or private sector supplier, service provider or customer, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to obtain appropriate insurance coverage, positions taken by insurers with respect to claims made and the financial condition of insurers, safety and security performance, Brink’s loss experience, changes in insurance costs, risks customarily associated with operating in foreign countries including changing labor and economic conditions, currency devaluations, safety and security issues, political instability, restrictions on repatriation of earnings and capital, nationalization, expropriation and other forms of restrictive government actions, costs associated with information technology and other ongoing contractual obligations, costs associated with the purchase and implementation of cash processing and security equipment, changes in the scope or method of remediation or monitoring of the Company’s former coal operations, the timing of the pass-through of certain costs to third parties and the timing of approvals by governmental authorities relating to the disposal of the coal assets, changes to estimated liabilities and assets in 13 actuarial assumptions due to payments made, investment returns, annual actuarial revaluations, and periodic revaluations of reclamation liabilities, the funding levels, accounting treatment, investment performance and costs of the Company’s pension plans and the VEBA, whether the Company’s assets or the VEBA’s assets are used to pay benefits, projections regarding the number of participants in and beneficiaries of the Company’s employee and retiree benefit plans, black lung claims incidence, the number of dependents of mine workers for whom benefits are provided, actual retirement experience of the former coal operation’s employees, actual medical and legal expenses relating to benefits, changes in inflation rates (including medical inflation) and interest rates, changes in mortality and morbidity assumptions, mandatory or voluntary pension plan contributions, discovery of new facts relating to civil suits, the addition of claims or changes in relief sought by adverse parties, the cash, debt and tax position and growth needs of the Company, the demand for capital by the Company and the availability and cost of such capital, the nature of the Company’s hedging relationships, the financial performance of the Company, utilization of third-party advisors and the ability of the Company to hire and retain corporate staff, changes in employee obligations, overall domestic and international economic, political, social and business conditions, capital markets performance, the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, foreign currency exchange rates, changes in estimates and assumptions underlying the Company’s critical accounting policies, as more fully described in the section “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” but including the likelihood that net deferred tax assets will be realized, discount rates, expectations of future performance, the timing of deductibility of expenses, inflation, the promulgation and adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations, including SFAS 141(R), SFAS 160, SFAS 16-1, SFAS 162, FSP EITF 03-6-1, and FSP 132(R)-1, anticipated return on assets, inflation, seasonality, pricing and other competitive industry factors, labor relations, fuel prices, new government regulations and interpretations of existing regulations, legislative initiatives, judicial decisions, issuances of permits, variations in costs or expenses and the ability of counterparties to perform. The information included in this document is representative only as of the date of this document, and The Brink’s Company undertakes no obligation to update any information contained in this document. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 