Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. President Obama recently signed federal legislation enacting sweeping reforms to the U.S. healthcare industry, including mandatory health insurance, reforms to Medicare and Medicaid, the creation of large insurance purchasing groups, new taxes on medical equipment manufacturers and other significant modifications to the healthcare delivery system. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of the new federal legislation and its implementation, we cannot predict what impact it may have on us, our customers or our industry. A material amount of our sales could be subject to the $20 billion medical device tax included in the 2010 healthcare reform legislation. The 2.3% tax is levied on the total domestic sales of Class I, II and III medical devices. The tax is based on the revenues of a company, regardless of whether a company generates a profit. The excise tax is scheduled to go into effect January 1, 2013. Our operations are subject to a number of complex government regulations, the violation of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our manufacture and distribution of medical and dental devices are subject to a number of state and federal regulatory bodies, including state dental boards and the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). The statutes, regulations, administrative orders, and advisories that affect our businesses are complex and subject to diverse, often conflicting, interpretations. While we make every effort to maintain full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, we are unable to eliminate an ongoing risk that one or more of our activities may at some point be determined to have been non-compliant. The penalties for non-compliance could range from an administrative warning to termination of a portion of our business. Furthermore, even if we are subsequently determined to have fully complied with applicable laws or regulations, our costs to achieve such a determination and the intervening loss of business could adversely affect or even terminate a portion of our business. A change in such laws or regulations at any time may have an adverse effect on our operations. Notwithstanding the risks inherent in our business, management believes that our operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. - 8 - The FDA regulates our medical and dental products as Class 1, Class 2 and Class 3 medical devices. The FDA has broad enforcement powers to recall and prohibit the sale of products that do not comply with federal regulations, and to order the cessation of non-compliant processes. No claim has been made to date by the FDA regarding any of our products or processes. Nevertheless, as is common in the industry, certain of our products and processes are from time to time subject to routine governmental reviews and investigations. While our management believes that our products and processes fully comply with applicable laws and regulations, we are unable to predict the outcome of any such investigation or review, pending its completion. We believe that our business is conducted in a manner consistent with Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and other agency regulations governing disposition of industrial waste materials. While we believe that our products and processes fully comply with applicable laws and regulations, we are unable to predict the outcome of any investigation or review which may in the future be undertaken with respect to our disposition of industrial waste materials. If any of our products, processes or other operations are found to be in violation of government regulations, it could expose us to claims, liabilities and remedial obligations that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face significant competition from a number of different sources, which could negatively impact our results of operations and business conditions. The markets for healthcare, factory automation and small motor manufacturing industries are intensely competitive, and we face significant competition from a number of different sources. Several of our competitors have significantly greater name recognition as well as substantially greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources than us. We compete in all of our markets with other major healthcare, factory automation and small motor manufacturing related companies. As a provider of outsourced services, we also compete with our customers’ own internal development groups. Competitive pressures and other factors, such as new product or new technology introductions by us or our competitors may result in price or market share erosion that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, there can be no assurance that our products and services will achieve broad market acceptance or will successfully compete with other products. Our quarterly results can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may negatively impact the price of our shares and/or cause significant variances in the prices at which such shares trade. Our revenues have fluctuated in the past, and may fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and period to period, as a result of a number of factors including, without limitation: the size and timing of orders from customers; the length of new product development cycles; market acceptance of new technologies; the extent and timing of eligible product returned for repair or replacement under warranty coverage; changes in pricing policies or price reductions by us or our competitors; the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us or our competitors; the financial stability of major customers; our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs; acceleration or deferrals of customer orders and deliveries; changes in our strategy; personnel changes; and general market/economic factors. Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of sales can cause significant fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that interim period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future quarter(s), our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our Common Stock would likely be materially adversely affected. - 9 - A substantial portion of our business is derived from our three core business areas that, if not serviced properly, may result in a material adverse impact upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently derive a substantial part of our net revenues from sales of our medical device, motion control and small motor products and related services. We believe that a primary factor in the market acceptance of our product and services is the value that is created for our customers by those products and related services. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on our ability to continue to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers through the timely development, successful introduction and implementation of new and enhanced products and services. We have historically expended a significant percentage of our net revenues on product development and believe that significant continued product development efforts will be required to sustain our growth. Continued investment in our sales and marketing efforts will also be required to support future growth. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product development efforts, that the market will continue to accept our existing products, or that new products or product enhancements will be developed and implemented in a timely manner, meet the requirements of our customers, or achieve market acceptance. If new products or product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers such that if we were to lose one, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a few significant customers that contribute a significant portion of our revenue. In 2010, our top 20 customers accounted for 88% of our sales, with our two largest customers accounting for 40% and 20% of our 2010 sales, respectively. Our loss of one or more of our large customers could severely impact us, including having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. In December, 2009 our largest customer informed us that is was in the process of developing, and planned to eventually manufacture, its own surgical hand pieces which are functionally comparable to the two products currently provided to the customer by the Company. Pro-Dex has been the exclusive manufacturer of these products since they were developed. We currently provide the Customer with two products (“Product A” and “Product B”) and repair services for such products. Total revenue shipped in the last two fiscal years by each of these categories is as follows: Revenues during the 12 months ended Average % of Total 6/30/2010 6/30/2009 Product A $4,398,000 $2,851,000 46% Product B $3,965,000 $2,717,000 42% Repairs $905,000 $962,000 12% $9,268,000 $6,530,000 100% - 10 - The customer has indicated that it has successfully developed, tested, and released its version of Product A and is currently shipping such product to new accounts. The customer has also indicated that it intends to continue to purchase from Pro-Dex sufficient levels of Product A to support replacement units for its existing customers in the U.S. and Europe through at least the end of calendar year 2011 and will also use the Pro-Dex Product A for all requirements in the South American market through approximately the end of fiscal year 2012. Regarding Product B, a more complex device, the customer has indicated that the development and testing of that Product has been less successful and that the Company can expect continued orders from the customer for Product B through the end of calendar year 2011. Lastly, the customer has indicated that it intends to continue to use Pro-Dex’s repair services for all Pro-Dex products for an undetermined period, except in South America, where it will purchase components from Pro-Dex to do its own repairs locally. As a result of the foregoing, we expect that approximately one-third of the revenue attributable to this customer during calendar year 2011 could move toward them. However, the customer is not obligated to abide by the timetables it has currently expressed to us or to update us as to the status of its product development efforts. Accordingly, we are unable to know or predict the status of the customer's initiative on an ongoing basis. The customer could accelerate, delay or terminate its transition to its own products at any time and without notice to us, which could have a further material impact on our revenues. The identity of the customer is protected by a confidentiality agreement. We have recently violated certain credit facility covenants and risk violating additional credit facility covenants in the future, which could result in an event of default under our credit facilities and in the acceleration of all amounts owing under all of our credit facilities, the loss of one or more of credit facilities and the need for us to seek alternative financing. Our credit facilities with our banks contain various covenants, including certain covenants concerning our financial performance. The failure to comply with any one or more of these covenants could result in an event of default, the acceleration of all amounts due, and the termination of each such credit facility. In addition, each of our credit facilities with Wells Fargo and Union Bank contain cross-default provisions that result in a default under one facility causing an immediate default under the other facility. Our most recent defaults under both our Wells Fargo facility and our Union Bank facility occurred in fiscal years 2009 and 2010. Historically, on those occasions where we have failed to comply with our credit facility covenants, we have been granted waivers of the applicable covenants by our banks. However, there can be no assurance that similar waivers will be granted in the future. Any future default under any of our credit facilities, if not waived, could cause the entire amount owing under one or all facilities to become immediately due and payable, the loss of one or more of credit facilities and possibly the need for us to seek alternative financing. The global economic environment may impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Changes in the global economic environment have caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases of our products, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. In addition, financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities (including the timing and amount of any repurchases of our common stock or debt we may make in the future). Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. - 11 - The industry in which we operate is subject to significant technological change and any failure or delay in addressing such change could adversely affect our competitive position or could make our current products obsolete. The healthcare, factory automation and small motor markets are generally characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render the Company's existing products obsolete and unmarketable. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards. New product development requires significant research and development expenditures that we have historically funded by sales growth. Any significant decrease in revenues or research funding could impair our ability to respond to technological advances in the marketplace and to remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In response to increasing market demand, we are currently targeting new markets, developing new products and updating existing products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully access new markets, develop these new products or that these products will operate successfully, or that any such development, even if successful, will be completed concurrently with or prior to the introduction of competing products. Any such failure or delay could adversely affect our competitive position or could make our current products obsolete. We face risks and uncertainties associated with potential litigation by or against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We continually face the possibility of litigation as either a plaintiff or a defendant. It is not reasonably possible to estimate the awards or damages, or the range of awards or damages, if any, that we might incur in connection with such litigation. Many of our products are complex and technologically advanced. Such products may, from time to time, be the subject of claims concerning product performance and construction, including warranty claims. While we are committed to correcting such problems as soon as possible, there is no assurance that solutions will be found on a timely basis, if at all, to satisfy customer demands and avoid potential claims or litigation. Also, due to the location of our facilities, as well as the nature of our business activities, there is a risk that we could be subject to litigation related to environmental remediation claims. We are currently one of 17 named defendants in a case concerning remediation of alleged ground water contamination in the Orange County (California) Groundwater South Basin. Our liabilities, as well as our costs of defending, monitoring and concluding our involvement in this case are uncertain, and those costs cannot now be estimated. (See the discussion under Item 3 of this report for additional details regarding this litigation matter). The uncertainty associated with potential litigation may have an adverse impact on our business. In particular, litigation could impair our relationships with existing customers and our ability to obtain new customers. Defending or prosecuting litigation could result in a diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that litigation would not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. - 12 - Our products may be subject to product liability legal claims which may cost us significant amounts in both money and management time and resources We maintain insurance to protect against claims associated with the use of our products, but there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will adequately cover any claim asserted against us. Our products are used in industries (including, but not limited to, aircraft, medical and dental) where the malfunction of one of our products could subject us to claims regarding death or serious bodily injury. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds in litigation and management time and resources. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to product liability claims, that such claims will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Such claims or the unavailability of appropriate insurance could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely heavily on our proprietary technology, which if not properly protected or deemed invalid, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property and rely on exclusive development and supply agreements, confidentiality procedures, and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the legal protections and precautions taken by us will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that competitors will not independently develop technologies equivalent or superior to ours. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and are often not enforced as vigorously as those in the United States We do not believe that our operations or products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement or trade secret claims against us with respect to our current or future products. Successful assertions or claims by others could require us to enter into a license agreement or royalty arrangement with the party asserting the claim or to cease our use of the infringing technology, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to manage changing sales levels could harm us by having a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have in the past experienced periods of growth that have placed, and may in the future place, a significant strain on our resources. We also anticipate expanding our overall production, development, marketing, sales, management and training capacity as market demand requires. In the event we are unable to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals in such capacities within a reasonable timeframe, such failure could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our ability to manage future changes in the scope of our operations or personnel may depend on significant expansion or contraction of our production, research and development, marketing and sales, management, and administrative and financial capabilities. The ineffective management of change in the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. - 13 - Our operations are dependent upon our key personnel. If such personnel were to leave unexpectedly, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future performance also depends in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom have been with us for a significant period of time. We maintain term key man life insurance policies for the CEO and the head of the Beaverton operations. Because we have a relatively small number of employees when compared to other leading companies in the same industry, our dependence on maintaining our relationship with key employees is particularly significant. We are also dependent on our ability to attract and retain high quality personnel, particularly in the areas of product development, operations management, marketing and finance. A high level of employee mobility and the aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel characterize the healthcare and motion control industries. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us. Loss of services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may need to grant additional stock options to key employees and provide other forms of incentive compensation to attract and retain such key personnel. The failure to maintain the market price of our common stock may affect our ability to remain a publicly-traded company on the NASDAQ exchange. The minimum bid price for our publicly traded common stock was below $1.00 for a significant period of time throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, ultimately resulting in us effecting a 1-for-3 split of our common stock on June 17, 2010 to increase our stock price to satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price listing requirement of the Nasdaq Capital Market. Notwithstanding the increased price of our common stock that resulted from the reverse split, our future performance, general market conditions and other factors could result in us failing to satisfy the listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future. If our common stock were to be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our shareholders may find it difficult to either dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance, compliance with which could be costly and time consuming. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance. Based on our reading and interpretations of relevant guidance, principles or concepts issued by, among other authorities, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, our management believes our performance, including current sales contract terms and business arrangements, have been properly reported. However, there continue to be issued interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant standards to a wide range of contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in the industries in which we operate. Future interpretations or changes by the regulators of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our accounting policies and practices that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. - 14 - Our evaluation of internal controls and remediation of potential problems is costly and time consuming and could expose weaknesses in financial reporting. The regulations implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, require management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. This process is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention of management. Management can give no assurance that material weaknesses in internal controls will not be discovered. If a material weakness is discovered, corrective action may be time consuming, costly and further divert the attention of management. The disclosure of a material weakness, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price, especially if a restatement of financial statements for past periods is required. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 