ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is exposed to risk as it operates its businesses. Some of these risks are common to all companies doing business in the industries in which the Company operates and some are unique to the Company. In addition, there are risks associated with investing in the common stock of the Company. These risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company and its businesses. The Company has significant pension and retiree medical obligations. The Company has substantial pension and retiree medical obligations, many of which arose during its long history of operating in the coal industry. The Company has contributed cash to segregated trusts that pay benefits to satisfy these obligations. The Company may have to make additional contributions to fund the obligations. The amount of these obligations is significantly impacted by factors that are not in the Company’s control, including interest rates used to determine the present value of future payment streams, expected investment returns, medical inflation rates, participation rates and changes in laws and regulations. Changes in any of these factors could have a significant effect on the amount of the Company’s obligations and could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has significant operations outside the United States. The Company currently operates in approximately 50 countries. Revenue outside the U.S. was approximately 60% of total revenue in 2006. The Company expects revenue outside the U.S. to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue. Business operations outside the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, such as: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; • threat of nationalization and expropriation; • higher costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions; • limitations on the repatriation of earnings; and • fluctuations in equity and revenues due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company tries to effectively manage these risks by monitoring current and anticipating future political and economic developments and adjusting operations as appropriate. Changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which the Company operates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates in highly competitive industries. The Company competes in industries that are subject to significant competition and pricing pressures. Brink’s faces significant pricing pressures from competitors in most markets. BHS experiences competitive pricing pressures on installation and monitoring rates. Because the Company believes it has competitive advantages such as brand name recognition and a reputation for a high level of service and security, it resists competing on price alone. However, continued pricing pressure could impact the Company’s customer base or pricing structure and have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Brink’s earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by increased losses of customer valuables. Brink’s purchases insurance coverage for losses of customer valuables in excess of what it considers prudent deductibles and/or retentions. Insurance is provided by different groups of underwriters at negotiated rates and terms. Insurance is available to Brink’s in major markets although the premiums charged are subject to fluctuations depending on market conditions. The loss experience of Brink’s and other armored carriers affects premium rates charged to Brink’s. Brink’s is self-insured for losses below its coverage limits and recognizes expense up to these limits for actual losses. Brink’s insurance policies cover losses from most causes, with the exception of war, nuclear risk and various other exclusions typical for such policies. The availability of high-quality and reliable insurance coverage is an important factor in order for Brink’s to obtain and retain customers and to manage the risks of its business. If the Company’s losses increase, or if the Company is unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Brink’s earnings could be materially affected by impairment charges recorded as a result of recurring losses within certain operations or countries. Subsidiaries in certain countries in which Brink’s operates have been recording annual losses. There is a risk that, if such losses continue, Brink’s will take action to reduce expenses. This could result in restructuring charges. Further, Brink’s could be required to write down the value of the operation. BHS may not be able to sustain the expansion of its subscriber base at recently achieved growth rates. BHS has a history of significantly increasing its subscriber base each year as a result of growth in new installations and a relatively low number of subscriber disconnects. The majority of BHS subscribers are residents of single family households and BHS intends to continue to grow its subscriber base through a number of sales channels, including relationships with new home builders. As a result, BHS’ business has benefited from strong growth in the housing market through 2005. The housing market experienced a downturn in 2006 and a continued downturn in the housing market (new construction and/or resale of existing houses) could have an impact on BHS’ ability to continue strong growth in the subscriber base. In addition, BHS’ disconnect rate has been favorably affected in the past several years by the cumulative effect of improved subscriber selection and retention processes and high-quality customer service. A substantial number of disconnects cannot be prevented, including, for example, disconnects that occur because of customer moves. If the Company fails to continue to provide high-quality service or take the other actions that have improved the disconnect rates in the past, the disconnect rate could increase, and the subscriber base growth rate could suffer. Slower growth in the subscriber base from materially lower installations and/or materially higher disconnects could adversely affect BHS’ results of operations. BHS intends to grow new lines of business and operating margins may suffer. BHS intends to expand its presence in commercial alarm installation and monitoring. As a result, the cost of investment in new subscribers may continue to grow faster than installations and related revenue as BHS develops the resources needed to achieve its objectives. If BHS is unable to increase the subscriber base while incurring the additional investment costs, BHS’ results of operations would be adversely affected. BHS’ earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by a sudden shift in its customers’ selection of telecommunications services. BHS’ operating model relies on its customers’ selection and continued payment for high quality, reliable telecommunications services. In recent years, new options for retail telecommunications services (such as Voice over Internet Protocol, or “VoIP”) have arisen, some of which are lower in cost but also less reliable and of lower quality than traditional telecommunications. If there were a sudden shift to such services by a significant portion of BHS’ subscriber base, BHS’ results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. BHS’ earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by penalties assessed for false alarms. BHS believes its false alarm rate compares favorably to many other companies’ rates. Some local governments impose assessments, fines, penalties and limitations on either subscribers or the alarm companies for false alarms. A few municipalities have adopted ordinances under which both permit and alarm dispatch fees are charged directly to the alarm companies. BHS’ alarm service contracts generally allow BHS to pass these charges on to customers. If more local governments impose assessments, fines or penalties, and BHS is not able to pass the increase in costs to its customers, the growth of BHS’ subscriber base would be adversely affected. BHS’ earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by the refusal of police departments to automatically respond to calls from monitored security service companies. Police departments in a limited number of U.S. cities are not required to automatically respond to calls from monitored security service companies unless an emergency has been visually verified. BHS has offered affected customers the option of receiving response from private guard companies, which in most cases have contracted with BHS. This increases the overall cost to customers. If more police departments refuse to automatically respond to calls from monitored security service companies without visual verification, BHS’ ability to retain subscribers could be negatively impacted and results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. BHS relies on third party providers for the components of its security systems. The components for the security systems that BHS installs are manufactured by third parties. BHS is therefore susceptible to interruptions in supply and to the receipt of components that do not meet BHS’ high standards. BHS mitigates these risks through the selection of vendors with strong reputations for producing quality products. However, any interruption in supply could cause delays in installations and repairs and the loss of current and potential customers. Also, if a previously installed component were found to be defective, BHS might not be able to recover the costs associated with its repair or replacement and the diversion of BHS’ technical force to address such an issue could affect subscriber and revenue growth. 13 BHS is exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. Substantially all of BHS’ alarm monitoring product sales or services agreements contain provisions limiting liability to customers in an attempt to reduce this risk. However, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, there can be no assurance that these limitations will be enforced. BHS carries insurance of various types, including general liability and professional liability insurance in amounts management considers adequate and customary for the industry. Some of BHS’ insurance policies, and the laws of some states, may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages, or liability arising from gross negligence. If the Company incurs increased losses related to employee acts or omissions, or system failure, or if the Company is unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, or if the Company is unable to receive reimbursements from insurance carriers, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s business operates in regulated industries. The U.S. operations of Brink’s are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation with respect to safety of operations and equipment and financial responsibility. Intrastate operations in the U.S. are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities and intraprovince operations in Canada are subject to regulation by Canadian and provincial regulatory authorities. Brink’s International operations are regulated to varying degrees by the countries in which they operate. BHS and its employees are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local consumer protection, licensing and other laws and regulations. Most states in which BHS operates have licensing laws directed specifically toward the monitored security services industry. BHS’ business relies heavily upon wireline telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline telephone companies are currently regulated by both the federal and state governments. BHS’ Canadian operation is subject to the laws of Canada, British Columbia and Alberta. Changes in laws or regulations could require the Company to change the way it operates, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of the Company’s operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or the Company failed to comply, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome related to non-payment of value-added taxes and custom duties. During 2004, the Company determined that one of its non-U.S. Brink’s business units had not paid foreign customs duties and value-added taxes with respect to the importation of various goods and services. The Company has been advised that there could be civil and criminal penalties asserted for the non-payment of these customs duties and value-added taxes. To date no penalties have been asserted. The Company believes that the range of reasonably possible losses related to customs duties penalties is between $0 and approximately $35 million. These penalties could be asserted at any time. The business unit has commenced discussions regarding this matter with the appropriate government authorities, provided an accounting of unpaid customs duties and taxes and made payments covering its calculated unpaid value added taxes. An adverse outcome in this matter could materially affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has retained obligations from the sale of BAX Global. In January 2006 the Company sold BAX Global. The Company retained some of the obligations related to these operations, primarily for taxes owed prior to the date of sale and for any amounts paid related to one pending litigation matter for which losses could be between $0 and $10 million at the date of sale. In addition, the Company provided indemnification customary for these sorts of transactions. Future unfavorable developments related to these matters could require the Company to record additional expenses or make cash payments in excess of recorded liabilities. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to covenants for credit facilities. The Company has credit facilities with financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on the ability to pledge assets and limits on the use of proceeds of asset sales. Although the Company believes none of these covenants are presently restrictive to operations, the ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by changes in the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will meet these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under existing credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities, the lenders could cause amounts outstanding to be immediately payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. The occurrence of these events would have a significant impact on the Company’s liquidity and cash flows. 14 The Company’s effective income tax rates could change. The Company operates in approximately 50 countries, all of which have different income tax laws and associated income tax rates. The Company’s effective income tax rate can be significantly affected by changes in the mix of pretax earnings by country and the related income tax rates in those countries. In addition, the Company’s effective income tax rate is significantly affected by its estimate of its ability to realize deferred tax assets, including those associated with net operating losses. Changes in income tax laws, income apportionment, or estimates of the ability to realize deferred tax assets, could significantly affect the Company’s effective income tax rate, financial position and results of operations. The Company depends heavily on the availability of fuel and the ability to pass higher fuel cost to customers. Fuel prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. In some periods, the Company’s operating profit has been adversely affected because it is not able to fully offset the impact of higher fuel prices through increased prices or fuel surcharges. Besides passing fuel costs on to customers, the Company does not have any long-term fuel purchase contracts, and has not entered into any other hedging arrangements that protect against fuel price increases. Volatile fuel prices and potential increases in fuel taxes will continue to affect the Company. A significant increase in fuel costs and the inability to pass increases on to customers or a shortage of fuel could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 15 