ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are exposed to risk in the operation of our businesses. Some of these risks are common to all companies doing business in the industries in which we operate and some are unique to our business. In addition, there are risks associated with investing in our common stock. These risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the company and its businesses. We may not realize the expected benefits of strategic acquisitions because of integration difficulties and other challenges, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from recent acquisitions will depend, in part, on successfully integrating each business with our company as well as improving operating performance and profitability through our management efforts and capital investments. The risks to a successful integration and improvement of operating performance and profitability include, among others, failure to implement our business plan, unanticipated issues in integrating operations with ours, unanticipated changes in laws and regulations, labor unrest resulting from union operations, regulatory, environmental and permitting issues, the effect on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and difficulties in fully identifying and evaluating potential liabilities, risks and operating issues. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our expected benefits of the recent acquisitions and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The inability to access capital or significant increases in the cost of capital could adversely affect our business. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost-effective financing depends on our credit ratings as well as the liquidity of financial markets. A negative change in our ratings outlook or any downgrade in our current investment-grade credit ratings by our rating agencies could adversely affect our cost and/or access to sources of liquidity and capital. Additionally, such a downgrade could increase the costs of borrowing under available credit lines. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term capital. Our access to funds under short-term credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Longer disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our business. We have significant retirement obligations. Poor investment performance of retirement plan holdings could unfavorably affect our liquidity and results of operations. We have substantial pension and retiree medical obligations, a portion of which have been funded. The amount of these obligations is significantly affected by factors that are not in our control, including interest rates used to determine the present value of future payment streams, investment returns, medical inflation rates, participation rates and changes in laws and regulations. Our liabilities for these plans increased significantly in 2008 primarily as a result of a decline in value of plan investments. To improve the funded status of The Brink’s Company Pension-Retirement Plan, we made a voluntary $150 million cash and stock contribution in 2009. The funded status of the plan was approximately 80% as of December 31, 2010. Based on actuarial assumptions at the end of 2010, we expect that we will be required to make contributions totaling $136 million to The Brink’s Company Pension-Retirement Plan over a five-year period ending in 2016. This could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to use our resources to make acquisitions and to otherwise grow our business. The net periodic costs of our retirement plans in 2009 and 2010 were adversely affected by the investment losses sustained in 2008, and although plan investments have partially recovered in the last two years, we anticipate that expenses in future years will continue to be affected as the unrecognized losses are recognized into earnings. If these investments have additional losses, our future cash requirements and costs for these plans will be further adversely affected. 10 We have significant operations outside the United States. We currently serve customers in more than 100 countries, including approximately 50 countries where we operate subsidiaries. Seventy-six percent (76%) of our revenue in 2010 came from operations outside the U.S. We expect revenue outside the U.S. to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue. Business operations outside the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, such as: · the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; · varying permitting and licensing requirements in different jurisdictions; · foreign ownership laws; · changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; · threat of nationalization and expropriation; · higher costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions; · laws or other requirements and restrictions associated with organized labor; · limitations on the repatriation of earnings; · fluctuations in equity, revenues and profits due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including measures taken by governments to devalue official currency exchange rates; and · inflation levels exceeding that of the U.S. We are exposed to certain risks when we operate in countries that have high levels of inflation, including the risk that: · the rate of price increases for services will not keep pace with the cost of inflation; · adverse economic conditions may discourage business growth which could affect demand for our services; · the devaluation of the currency may exceed the rate of inflation and reported U.S. dollar revenues and profits may decline; and · these countries may be deemed “highly inflationary” for U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) purposes. We try to manage these risks by monitoring current and anticipated political and economic developments and adjusting operations as appropriate. Changes in the political or economic environments of the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Restructuring charges may be required in the future. There is a possibility we will take restructuring actions in one or more of our markets in the future to reduce expenses if a major customer is lost, if recurring operating losses continue, or if one of the risks described above in connection with our foreign operations materializes. These actions could result in significant restructuring charges at these subsidiaries, including recognizing impairment charges to write down assets, and recording accruals for employee severance and operating leases. These charges, if required, could significantly and materially affect results of operations and cash flows. Earnings of our Venezuelan operations may not be repatriated for the foreseeable future, which will restrict our ability to use these earnings and cash flows for general corporate purposes such as reducing our U.S. debt. Under a June 2010 law in Venezuela, exchanging local currency for U.S. dollars requires the approval of the government’s central bank. Approved transactions may not exceed $350,000 per legal entity per month. We believe the law will limit the repatriation of cash from Venezuela for the foreseeable future, and as a result, will reduce the amount of cash in the future that could be used for general corporate purposes, including reducing our U.S. debt. At December 31, 2010, our Venezuelan subsidiaries held $3.3 million of cash and short-term investments denominated in U.S. dollars and $18.2 million of cash denominated in bolivar fuertes. We operate in highly competitive industries. We compete in industries that are subject to significant competition and pricing pressures in most markets. Because we believe we have competitive advantages such as brand name recognition and a reputation for a high level of service and security, we resist competing on price alone. However, continued pricing pressure could affect our customer base or pricing structure and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Our earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by increased losses of customer valuables. We purchase insurance coverage for losses of customer valuables for amounts in excess of what we consider prudent deductibles and/or retentions. Insurance is provided by different groups of underwriters at negotiated rates and terms. Coverage is available to us in major insurance markets, although premiums charged are subject to fluctuations depending on market conditions. Our loss experience and that of other armored carriers affects premium rates charged to us. We are self-insured for losses below our coverage limits and recognize expense up to these limits for actual losses. Our insurance policies cover losses from most causes, with the exception of war, nuclear risk and various other exclusions typical for such policies. The availability of high-quality and reliable insurance coverage is an important factor in order for us to obtain and retain customers and to manage the risks of our business. If our losses increase, or if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We have risks associated with confidential individual information. In the normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential information about individuals. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or by third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We operate in regulated industries. Our U.S. operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation with respect to safety of operations and equipment and financial responsibility. Intrastate operations in the U.S. are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities and interprovincial operations in Canada are subject to regulation by Canadian and provincial regulatory authorities. Our international operations are regulated to varying degrees by the countries in which we operate. Many countries have permit requirements for security services and prohibit foreign companies from providing different types of security services. Changes in laws or regulations could require a change in the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or we failed to comply, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Failures of our IT system could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are heavily dependent on our information technology (IT) infrastructure. Significant problems with our infrastructure, such as telephone or IT system failure, computer viruses or other third-party tampering with IT systems, could halt or delay our ability to service our customers, hinder our ability to conduct our business and require significant remediation costs. In addition, we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades to our IT systems. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate these risks through testing, training, and staging implementation. However, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have retained obligations from the sale of BAX Global. In January 2006 we sold BAX Global. We retained some of the obligations related to these operations, primarily for taxes owed prior to the date of sale and for any amounts paid related to one pending litigation matter for which we paid $11.5 million in 2010. In addition, we provided indemnification customary for these sorts of transactions. Future unfavorable developments related to these matters could require us to record additional expenses or make cash payments in excess of recorded liabilities. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 We are subject to covenants for credit facilities. We have credit facilities with financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, limits on the ability to pledge assets, limits on the total amount of indebtedness we can incur, limits on the use of proceeds of asset sales and minimum coverage of interest costs. Although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to operations, the ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by changes in our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot provide assurance that we will meet these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under existing credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities, the lenders could cause amounts outstanding to be immediately payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. The occurrence of these events would have a significant effect on our liquidity and cash flows. Our growth strategy may not be successful. One element of our growth strategy is to extend our brand, strengthen our brand portfolio and expand our geographic reach through active programs of selective acquisitions. While we may identify numerous acquisition opportunities, our due diligence examinations and positions that we may take with respect to appropriate valuations and other transaction terms and conditions may hinder our ability to successfully complete acquisitions to achieve our strategic goals. In addition, acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There can be no assurance that: · we will be able to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, · all future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings, or · future acquisitions will be rapidly and efficiently integrated into existing operations. Our effective income tax rate could change. We serve customers in more than 100 countries, including approximately 50 countries where we operate subsidiaries, all of which have different income tax laws and associated income tax rates. Our effective income tax rate can be significantly affected by changes in the mix of pretax earnings by country and the related income tax rates in those countries. In addition, our effective income tax rate is significantly affected by the ability to realize deferred tax assets, including those associated with net operating losses. Changes in income tax laws, income apportionment, or estimates of the ability to realize deferred tax assets, could significantly affect our effective income tax rate, financial position and results of operations. We have certain environmental and other exposures related to our former coal operations. We may incur future environmental and other liabilities that are presently unknown in connection with our former coal operations, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional environmental regulations to which we are subject. Some form of federal regulation may be forthcoming with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide) and/or "cap and trade" legislation. The outcome of this legislation may result in new regulation, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities or other regulatory actions. Compliance with these actions could result in the creation of additional costs to us, including, among other things, increased fuel prices or additional taxes or emission allowances. We may not be able to recover the cost of compliance with new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations from our customers, which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, the potential effects of climate change and related regulation on our customers are highly uncertain and may adversely affect our operations. Forward-Looking Statements This document contains both historical and forward-looking information. Words such as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “may,” “should” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking information. Forward-looking information in this document includes, but is not limited to, statements regarding expected revenue growth and earnings, including organic revenue growth and segment operating profit margin in 2011, the pursuit of growth through acquisitions in developed, emerging and adjacent markets, employee relations, liabilities, expenses and cash outflows related to former operations, including benefit plans to pay retiree medical costs, the outcome of pending litigation, including litigation in Belgium, and the anticipated financial effect of the disposition of these matters, the growth of our Cash Logistics services, expected non-segment income and expenses, the realization of deferred tax assets, our anticipated 13 effective tax rate for 2011 and our tax position, the reinvestment of earnings on operations outside the U.S., 2011 projected interest expense, capital expenditures, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, capital leases and depreciation and amortization, the funding of our acquisition strategy and pension obligations, the trend of capital expenditures exceeding depreciation and amortization, future payment of bonds issued by the Peninsula Ports Authority of Virginia, the ability to meet liquidity needs, estimated contractual obligations for the next five years and beyond, projected contributions, expenses and payouts for the U.S. retirement plans and the non-U.S. pension plans and the expected long-term rate of return and funded status of the primary U.S. pension plan, expected future contributions to the UMWA plans, liability for black lung obligations, the effect of accounting rule changes, our ability to obtain U.S. dollars operate our business in Venezuela at the SITME rate, the repatriation of cash from our Venezuelan operations, the deductibility of goodwill, future amortizations into net periodic pension cost, the recognition of unrecognized tax positions, the purchase of additional shares of Brink’s Arya, minimum repayments of long-term debt and minimum future lease payments. Forward-looking information in this document is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and contingencies, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those that are anticipated. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to the timing of the recovery from the global economic slowdown and its impact on our business opportunities, the recent market volatility and its impact on the demand for our services, the implementation of investments in technology and High-value services and cost reduction efforts and their impact on revenue and profit growth, the ability to identify and execute further cost and operational improvements and efficiencies in our core businesses, the willingness of our customers to absorb fuel surcharges and other future price increases, the actions of competitors, regulatory and labor issues in many of our global operations and security threats worldwide, the impact of turnaround actions responding to current conditions in Europe, the stability of the Venezuelan economy and changes in Venezuelan policy regarding exchange rates, fluctuations in value of the Venezuelan bolivar fuerte, variations in costs or expenses and performance delays of any public or private sector supplier, service provider or customer, our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage, positions taken by insurers with respect to claims made and the financial condition of insurers, safety and security performance, our loss experience, changes in insurance costs, the outcome of pending and future claims and litigation, including claims in Belgium relating to our former CIT business in that country, risks customarily associated with operating in foreign countries including changing labor and economic conditions, currency devaluations, safety and security issues, political instability, restrictions on repatriation of earnings and capital, nationalization, expropriation and other forms of restrictive government actions, costs associated with the purchase and implementation of cash processing and security equipment, employee and environmental liabilities in connection with our former coal operations, black lung claims incidence, the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on black lung liability and operations, changes to estimated liabilities and assets in actuarial assumptions due to payments made, investment returns and annual actuarial revaluations, the funding requirements, accounting treatment, investment performance and costs and expenses of our retirement plans, the VEBA and other employee benefits, projections regarding the number of participants in and beneficiaries of our employee and retiree benefit plans, mandatory or voluntary retirement plan and VEBA contributions, the number of dependents of mine workers for whom benefits are provided, actual retirement experience of the former coal operation’s employees, actual medical and legal expenses relating to benefits, changes in inflation rates (including medical inflation) and interest rates, changes in mortality and morbidity assumptions, discovery of new facts relating to civil suits, the addition of claims or changes in relief sought by adverse parties, our cash, debt and tax position and growth needs, our demand for capital and the availability and cost of such capital, the nature of our hedging relationships, changes in employee obligations, overall domestic and international economic, political, social and business conditions, capital markets performance, the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies and foreign currency exchange rates, access to the capital and credit markets, changes in estimates and assumptions underlying our critical accounting policies, as more fully described in the section “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” but including the likelihood that net deferred tax assets will be realized, discount rates, expectations of future performance and anticipated return on assets, the timing of deductibility of expenses and inflation, the promulgation and adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations, including ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14, seasonality, pricing and other competitive industry factors, labor relations, new government regulations and interpretations of existing regulations, legislative initiatives, judicial decisions, issuances of permits, variations in costs or expenses and the ability of counterparties to perform. The information included in this document is representative only as of the date of this document, and The Brink’s Company undertakes no obligation to update any information contained in this document. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 