ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in highly competitive industries. We compete in industries that are subject to significant competition and pricing pressures in most markets. Because we believe we have competitive advantages such as brand name recognition and a reputation for a high level of service and security, we resist competing on price alone. However, continued pricing pressure from competitors or failure to achieve pricing based on the competitive advantages identified above could affect our customer base or pricing structure and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, given the highly competitive nature of our industries, it is important to develop new solutions and product and service offerings to help retain and expand our customer base. Failure to develop, sell and execute new solutions and offerings in a timely and efficient manner could also negatively affect our ability to retain our existing customer base or pricing structure and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Decreased use of cash could have a negative impact on our business. The proliferation of payment options other than cash, including credit cards, debit cards, stored-value cards, mobile payments and on-line purchase activity, could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a decline in the need for physical bank branches and retail stores. To mitigate this risk, we are developing new lines of business, but there is a risk that these initiatives may not offset the risks associated with our traditional cash-based business and that our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could negatively impacted. We have significant operations outside the United States. We currently serve customers in more than 100 countries, including approximately 50 countries where we operate subsidiaries. Eighty-two percent (82%) of our revenue in 2012 came from operations outside the U.S. We expect revenue outside the U.S. to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue. Business operations outside the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, such as: · the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; · enforcement of our global compliance program in foreign countries with a variety of laws, cultures and customs; · varying permitting and licensing requirements in different jurisdictions; · foreign ownership laws; · changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; · threat of nationalization and expropriation; · potential termination of the use of the euro and adoption of weaker new currencies as a result of the continued crisis in the Euro zone; · higher costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions; · laws or other requirements and restrictions associated with organized labor; · limitations on the repatriation of earnings; · fluctuations in equity, revenues and profits due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including measures taken by governments to devalue official currency exchange rates; · inflation levels exceeding that of the U.S; and · inability to collect for services provided to government entities. We are exposed to certain risks when we operate in countries that have high levels of inflation, including the risk that: · the rate of price increases for services will not keep pace with the cost of inflation; · adverse economic conditions may discourage business growth which could affect demand for our services; · the devaluation of the currency may exceed the rate of inflation and reported U.S. dollar revenues and profits may decline; and · these countries may be deemed “highly inflationary” for U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) purposes. We manage these risks by monitoring current and anticipated political and economic developments, monitoring adherence to our global compliance program and adjusting operations as appropriate. Changes in the political or economic environments of the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 Our growth strategy may not be successful. One element of our growth strategy is to extend our brand, strengthen our brand portfolio and expand our geographic reach through selective acquisitions and divestitures. While we may identify numerous acquisitions and divestitures opportunities, our due diligence examinations and positions that we may take with respect to appropriate valuations and other transaction terms and conditions may hinder our ability to successfully complete business transactions to achieve our strategic goals. In addition, acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives, anticipated revenue and segment operating profit improvements. There can be no assurance that: · we will be able to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, · all future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings, or · future acquisitions will be rapidly and efficiently integrated into existing operations. We may not realize the expected benefits of strategic acquisitions because of integration difficulties and other challenges, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from recent acquisitions will depend, in part, on successfully integrating each business with our company as well as improving operating performance and profitability through our management efforts and capital investments. The risks to a successful integration and improvement of operating performance and profitability include, among others, failure to implement our business plan, unanticipated issues in integrating operations with ours, unanticipated changes in laws and regulations, labor unrest resulting from union operations, regulatory, environmental and permitting issues, the effect on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and difficulties in fully identifying and evaluating potential liabilities, risks and operating issues. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our expected benefits of the recent acquisitions and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have significant deferred tax assets in the United States that may not be realized. Deferred tax assets are future tax deductions that result primarily from net operating losses and the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial statement and income tax purposes. We have $363 million of U.S. deferred tax assets recorded at the end of 2012. These future tax deductions may not be realized if our expectations of future margin improvements of our U.S. business are not attained. Consequently, not realizing our U.S. deferred tax assets may significantly and materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Restructuring charges may be required in the future. There is a possibility we will take restructuring actions in one or more of our markets in the future to reduce expenses if a major customer is lost, if recurring operating losses continue, or if one of the risks described above in connection with our foreign operations materializes. These actions could result in significant restructuring charges at these subsidiaries, including recognizing impairment charges to write down assets, and recording accruals for employee severance and operating leases. These charges, if required, could significantly and materially affect results of operations and cash flows. We have significant retirement obligations. Poor investment performance of retirement plan holdings and / or lower interest rates used to discount the obligations could unfavorably affect our liquidity and results of operations. We have substantial pension and retiree medical obligations, a portion of which have been funded. The amount of these obligations is significantly affected by factors that are not in our control, including interest rates used to determine the present value of future payment streams, investment returns, medical inflation rates, participation rates and changes in laws and regulations. The funded status of the primary U.S. pension plan was approximately 74% as of December 31, 2012. Based on actuarial assumptions at the end of 2012, we expect that we will be required to make contributions totaling $239 million to the plan over a nine-year period ending in 2021. This could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to use our resources to make acquisitions and to otherwise grow our business. We have $854 million of actuarial losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at the end of 2012, which are the result of decreasing interest rates used to discount the obligations for accounting purposes, investment returns that have been lower than expected and changes in other actuarial estimates in the last several years. These losses will be recognized in earnings in future periods to the extent they are not offset by future actuarial gains. If our retirement plans have additional investment or other actuarial losses, our future cash requirements and costs for these plans will be further adversely affected. 10 Currency restrictions in Venezuela limit our ability to use earnings and cash flows and may negatively affect ongoing operations in Venezuela. Currency exchange restrictions prevent us from converting local currency in Venezuela to U.S. dollars, which limits our ability to repatriate earnings and to purchase certain goods and services needed to operate our Venezuelan business. We do not expect to be able to repatriate cash from Venezuela for the foreseeable future because of the local currency restrictions. At December 31, 2012, our Venezuelan subsidiaries held $0.5 million of cash and short-term investments denominated in U.S. dollars and $47.9 million of cash denominated in bolivar fuertes. We do not expect to be able to use this cash that is included in our balance sheet for general corporate purposes, including reducing our debt. In addition, our Venezuelan subsidiaries purchase various goods and services that are paid for in U.S. dollars. We believe that currency exchange restrictions in Venezuela may disrupt the operation of our business in Venezuela because we may be unable to pay for these goods and services in the future. This could reduce our ability to provide services to our customers in Venezuela, or could increase the cost of delivering the services, which would negatively affect our earnings and cash flows, and could result in a loss of control, shutdown or loss of the business in Venezuela. Our earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by increased losses of customer valuables. We purchase insurance coverage for losses of customer valuables for amounts in excess of what we consider prudent deductibles and/or retentions. Insurance is provided by different groups of underwriters at negotiated rates and terms. Coverage is available to us in major insurance markets, although premiums charged are subject to fluctuations depending on market conditions. Our loss experience and that of other armored carriers affects premium rates charged to us. We are self-insured for losses below our coverage limits and recognize expense up to these limits for actual losses. Our insurance policies cover losses from most causes, with the exception of war, nuclear risk and various other exclusions typical for such policies. The availability of high-quality and reliable insurance coverage is an important factor in order for us to obtain and retain customers and to manage the risks of our business. If our losses increase, or if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We have risks associated with confidential individual information. In the normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential information about individuals. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches (including cybersecurity breaches), acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or by third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Negative publicity to our name or brand could lead to a loss of revenue or profitability. We are in the security business and our success and longevity are based to a large extent on our reputation for trust and integrity. Our reputation or brand, particularly the trust placed in us by our customers, could be negatively impacted in the event of perceived or actual breaches in our ability to conduct our business ethically, securely and responsibly. Any damage to our brand could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failures of our IT system could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are heavily dependent on our information technology (IT) infrastructure. Significant problems with our infrastructure, such as telephone or IT system failure, cybersecurity breaches, or failure to develop new technology platforms to support new initiatives and product and service offerings, could halt or delay our ability to service our customers, hinder our ability to conduct and expand our business and require significant remediation costs. In addition, we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades to our IT systems. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate these risks through testing, training, and staging implementation. However, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 We operate in regulated industries. Our U.S. operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation with respect to safety of operations and equipment and financial responsibility. Intrastate operations in the U.S. are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities and interprovincial operations in Canada are subject to regulation by Canadian and provincial regulatory authorities. Our international operations are regulated to varying degrees by the countries in which we operate. Many countries have permit requirements for security services and prohibit foreign companies from providing different types of security services. Changes in laws or regulations could require a change in the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or we failed to comply, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our inability to access capital or significant increases in our cost of capital could adversely affect our business. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost-effective financing depends on our credit ratings as well as the liquidity of financial markets. A negative change in our ratings outlook or any downgrade in our current investment-grade credit ratings by the rating agencies could adversely affect our cost and/or access to sources of liquidity and capital. Additionally, such a downgrade could increase the costs of borrowing under available credit lines. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term capital. Our access to funds under short-term credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Longer disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our business. We have retained obligations from the sale of BAX Global. In January 2006 we sold BAX Global (the Company’s former international freight forwarding and logistics operations). We retained some of the obligations related to these operations, primarily for taxes owed prior to the date of sale and for any amounts paid related to one pending litigation matter for which we paid $11.5 million in 2010. In addition, we provided indemnification customary for these sorts of transactions. Future unfavorable developments related to these matters could require us to record additional expenses or make cash payments in excess of recorded liabilities. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to covenants for our credit facilities and for our unsecured notes. Our credit facilities as well as our unsecured notes are subject to financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, limits on the ability to pledge assets, limits on the total amount of indebtedness we can incur, limits on the use of proceeds of asset sales and minimum coverage of interest costs. Although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to operations, the ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by changes in our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot provide assurance that we will meet these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under existing credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities, the lenders could cause amounts outstanding to be immediately payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. The occurrence of these events would have a significant effect on our liquidity and cash flows. Our effective income tax rate could change. We serve customers in more than 100 countries, including approximately 50 countries where we operate subsidiaries, all of which have different income tax laws and associated income tax rates. Our effective income tax rate can be significantly affected by changes in the mix of pretax earnings by country and the related income tax rates in those countries. In addition, our effective income tax rate is significantly affected by the ability to realize deferred tax assets, including those associated with net operating losses. Changes in income tax laws, income apportionment, or estimates of the ability to realize deferred tax assets, could significantly affect our effective income tax rate, financial position and results of operations. 12 We have certain environmental and other exposures related to our former coal operations. We may incur future environmental and other liabilities in connection with our former coal operations, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional environmental regulations to which we are subject. Some form of federal regulation may be forthcoming with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide) and/or "cap and trade" legislation. The outcome of this legislation may result in new regulation, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities or other regulatory actions. Compliance with these actions could result in the creation of additional costs to us, including, among other things, increased fuel prices or additional taxes or emission allowances. We may not be able to recover the cost of compliance with new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations from our customers, which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, the potential effects of climate change and related regulation on our customers are highly uncertain and may adversely affect our operations. 13 Forward-Looking Statements This document contains both historical and forward-looking information. Words such as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “may,” “should” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking information. Forward-looking information in this document includes, but is not limited to, statements regarding future performance of The Brink’s Company and its global operations, including organic revenue growth and segment operating profit margin in 2013; execution of the Company’s growth strategy, pending acquisitions and dispositions, expenses and cash outflows related to former operations, future contributions to our Pension-Retirement Plan, the repatriation of cash from our Venezuelan operations, the anticipated financial effect of pending litigation, the pursuit of higher margin business opportunities, investments in information technology, profit growth and expected margins in the Company’s regional markets, growth of our Global Services business, the acquisition of new vehicles in the United States with capital leases, expected non-segment income and expenses, 2013 projected interest expense, the realization of deferred tax assets, our anticipated effective tax rate for 2013 and our tax position, the reinvestment of earnings on operations outside the United States, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, projected currency impact on revenue, capital expenditures, capital leases and depreciation and amortization, the funding of our acquisition strategy and pension obligations, the trend of capital expenditures exceeding depreciation and amortization, the ability to meet liquidity needs, future payment of bonds issued by the Peninsula Ports Authority of Virginia, contribution of shares of common stock to satisfy pension contribution requirements, estimated contractual obligations for the next five years and beyond, projected contributions, expenses and payouts for the U.S. retirement plans and the non-U.S. pension plans and the expected long-term rate of return and funded status of the primary U.S. pension plan, expected liability for and future contributions to the UMWA plans, liability for black lung obligations, the projected impact of future excise tax on the UMWA plans, our ability to obtain U.S. dollars to operate our business in Venezuela, the effect of accounting rule changes, the performance of counterparties to hedging agreements, the recognition of unrecognized tax positions, future amortizations into net periodic pension cost, the deductibility of goodwill, projected minimum repayments of long-term debt, the replacement of operating leases, future minimum lease payments, and the recognition of costs related to stock option grants. Forward-looking information in this document is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and contingencies, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those that are anticipated. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: · continuing market volatility and commodity price fluctuations and their impact on the demand for our services; · our ability to continue profit growth in Latin America; · the effect of current macro-economic uncertainty on our operations in Europe; · our ability to maintain or improve volumes at favorable pricing levels and increase cost efficiencies in the United States and Europe; · investments in information technology and value-added services and their impact on revenue and profit growth; · our ability to implement high-value solutions; · risks customarily associated with operating in foreign countries including changing labor and economic conditions, currency devaluations, safety and security issues, political instability, restrictions on repatriation of earnings and capital, nationalization, expropriation and other forms of restrictive government actions; · the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies and foreign currency exchange rates; · the stability of the Venezuelan economy, changes in Venezuelan policy regarding foreign-owned businesses, and changes in exchange rates; · fluctuations in value of the Venezuelan bolivar fuerte; · regulatory and labor issues in many of our global operations, including negotiations with organized labor and the possibility of work stoppages; · our ability to identify and execute further cost and operational improvements and efficiencies in our core businesses; · our ability to integrate successfully recently acquired companies and improve their operating profit margins; · the actions of competitors; · our ability to identify acquisitions and other strategic opportunities in emerging markets; · the willingness of our customers to absorb fuel surcharges and other future price increases; · the impact of turnaround actions responding to current conditions in Europe and North America and our productivity and cost control efforts in those regions; · our ability to obtain necessary information technology and other services at favorable pricing levels from third party service providers; · variations in costs or expenses and performance delays of any public or private sector supplier, service provider or customer; · our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage, positions taken by insurers with respect to claims made and the financial condition of insurers, safety and security performance, our loss experience, changes in insurance costs; · security threats worldwide and losses of customer valuables; · costs associated with the purchase and implementation of cash processing and security equipment; · employee and environmental liabilities in connection with our former coal operations, black lung claims incidence; · the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on black lung liability and the Company's ongoing operations; 14 · changes to estimated liabilities and assets in actuarial assumptions due to payments made, investment returns, interest rates and annual actuarial revaluations, the funding requirements, accounting treatment, investment performance and costs and expenses of our pension plans, the VEBA and other employee benefits, mandatory or voluntary pension plan contributions, the nature of our hedging relationships; · changes in estimates and assumptions underlying our critical accounting policies; · the outcome of pending and future claims and litigation; · access to the capital and credit markets; · seasonality, pricing and other competitive industry factors; and · the promulgation and adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations, new government regulations and interpretations of existing regulations. The information included in this document is representative only as of the date of this document, and The Brink’s Company undertakes no obligation to update any information contained in this document. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 