Item 1A. Risk Factors. We believe that the following risks and uncertainties may be material to our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that we currently consider to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. The current global recession and credit crisis may deepen and the recovery may be slow, adversely impacting our financial results and liquidity. Stable economic conditions and credit availability are important not only to the basic health of our global consumer markets, but also our own financial condition. The major disruptions of global 11 Table of Contents financial markets have adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our operations with respect to demand for our products. As in past downturns, the current recession has decreased demand and caused consumers to defer discretionary purchases, such as major remodeling projects and the purchase of golf clubs. Other portions of our business may come under pressure if the recession deepens and the recovery is protracted, including the global distilled spirits market, as well as the historically stable golf ball, glove and accessories markets, and the growing Asian golf market. In addition, if the global recession worsens, we may see consumers trade down to lower priced products across all our businesses. The global recession and credit crisis have adversely impacted the financial stability of our customers which may result in further reductions in customer inventories, as well as higher bad debt expense across our businesses. A prolonged global economic decline and credit crisis also may impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. Decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions, and repurchase shares in the future. A significant portion of our business is impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the U.S. housing market. Our home and hardware products are impacted primarily by demand for remodeling and repair associated with existing homes as well as demand for new homes. Demand for these end uses, particularly in new homes, is significantly influenced by household net worth, affordability, mortgage interest rates and availability, employment and consumer confidence, home prices and the inventory of homes for sale, including home foreclosures, as well as the number of homes constructed and, to a lesser extent, existing home sales. Demographic factors, such as aging housing stock, changes in population growth and household formations, affect levels of home improvement and residential construction over the longer term. While demographic trends are favorable for the long-term growth of the U.S. home products market, it is very difficult to predict the extent and duration of the ongoing downturn in the U.S. home products market as well as its adverse impact on our operating results. We operate in highly competitive consumer categories. While we largely compete for customers on the basis of product quality, brand strength and service, price is also an important basis of selection and competition. Our success depends on maintaining the strength of our consumer brands by continuously improving our offerings and appealing to the changing needs and preferences of our customers and end consumers. While our businesses are leaders in their categories and devote significant resources to continuous improvement of their products and marketing strategies, it is possible competitors may improve more rapidly or effectively, adversely affecting our sales, margins and profitability. Demand for our products and our financial results are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes. Our success depends in part on fulfilling consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. We aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes on a timely basis to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. While we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to research and development of new approaches to supply, we may not be successful in the development of new products or these techniques, or our new products may not be commercially successful. 12 Table of Contents The inability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property could adversely affect our business. We have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of any major brand or by infringement of our intellectual property rights. We are also subject to risks in this area because existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our products from infringement by others. In addition, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. With respect to our Golf business, we are subject to intellectual property suits that might cause us to incur significant costs, and if resolved unfavorably, pay significant damages, prohibit us from selling products or delay the introduction of new products. Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us. If Moody’s, S&P or Fitch were to downgrade our credit ratings, such a downgrade could result in an increase to our cost of capital and impact our capability to access credit, particularly in the event of a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating. Downgrades of our credit ratings could also affect the value or marketability of our outstanding notes. Continued consolidation of our trade customers, particularly in the home & hardware industry, could adversely affect our business. Though large customers can offer efficiencies and unique product opportunities, consolidation increases their size and importance. These larger customers can make significant changes in their volume of purchases, seek price reductions and even become competitors for some products. Further consolidation could adversely affect our margins and profitability, particularly if we were to lose a significant customer. Risks associated with our ability to continuously improve productivity and supply chain efficiency could adversely affect our business, particularly in an environment of declining market demand. We need to continually evaluate our manufacturing processes and assess opportunities to reduce costs. Our success also depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote a consistently flexible and low cost supply chain that can respond to market pressures to protect profitability and cash flow. Failure to achieve the desired level of flexibility and cost reductions could impair our financial results. Despite proactive efforts to control costs, reduced production in our facilities, resulting from the factors above, could result in lower operating margins and profitability until demand recovers. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key employees. Their motivation, skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. Risks associated with our strategic acquisitions and joint ventures could adversely affect our business. Our Spirits business is transitioning to new sales and distribution routes to market, both in the U.S. and internationally, following the sale of Vin & Sprit Group to Pernod Ricard S.A. in 2008. In the U.S., we have regained full ownership of the sales and distribution assets formerly held by our joint venture, 13 Table of Contents Future Brands LLC. The operations of the Maxxium Worldwide B.V. joint venture, which provides spirits sales and distribution in certain international markets, will cease on March 31, 2009. At that time, distribution in most major international markets will be through an alliance with The Edrington Group that will be a combination of jointly-owned or company-owned sales forces. In 2008, we also acquired Cruzan rum. We will continue to consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareowner value. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures, retaining the acquired businesses’ customers and brands, and achieving the expected financial results and benefits of transactions, such as revenue increases, cost savings, and increases in geographic or product presence; loss of key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt, issue shares, increase contingent liabilities, increase interest expense and amortization expense related to intangible assets, as well as experience dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. Future impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, or restructuring charges, could also occur as a result of acquisitions. Risks associated with interest rate fluctuations, as well as commodity and energy availability, price increases and volatility could adversely affect our business. We are exposed to risks associated with interest rate fluctuations and commodity price volatility arising from weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. We buy commodities, including steel, copper, zinc, titanium, glass, plastic, resins, wood, particleboard, grains and grapes. We also grow agave plants for tequila production. Availability, increases and volatility in the prices of these commodities, as well as products sourced from third parties and energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the manufacturing costs of our products. While in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future. While we may use derivative contracts to limit our exposure to commodity price volatility, the exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations and financial condition. We manufacture and source many products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. We manufacture and source our products in the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, China, Thailand and other countries. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with changes in political, economic and social environments, civil unrest, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, trade disputes with the U.S., as well as U.S. laws affecting activities of U.S. companies abroad, including tax laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. Exchange rate fluctuations may impact the cost of sourced products and our financial results. We sell products globally and are exposed to currency exchange rate risks, particularly related to the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar. We sell products and produce products in the United States, Europe and other areas (principally Canada, Mexico and Australia). While we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into U.S. dollars. In 14 Table of Contents addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position in local currency of our products, making it more difficult for our operations to compete. The exchange rates between some of the major foreign currencies in which our subsidiaries operate (including the British pound sterling, Australian dollar, euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar and Mexican peso) and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. If exchange rates as of December 31, 2008 remain in effect during 2009, our 2009 operating income may be negatively affected by approximately $0.30 to $0.35 per share. Our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers, including financial pressures brought on by the global recession and credit crisis. Our spirits products are sold principally through wholesale distributors for resale to retail outlets. The replacement, poor performance or financial default of a major distributor or one of its major customers could adversely affect our businesses. Our Home and Hardware business relies on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. Any unplanned disruption to the existing distribution could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. A disruption could be caused by the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability or default of the distributor or one of its major customers, particularly as a result of the global recession and continuing credit tightening as well as other unforeseen events. Costs and funding requirements of certain employee and retiree benefits may continue to rise. Increases in the costs of medical and pension benefits could continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: increased usage of medical benefits by current and retired employees and medical inflation in the United States; the effect of declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes in law and accounting standards that may increase the funding of, and the expense reflected for, employee benefits. Changes in regulatory standards could adversely affect our businesses. In the Golf business, our ability to develop and market new products is potentially hindered by rules governing equipment standards set by industry associations, such as restrictions on golf club head size and shaft length, and the overall distance standard for golf balls. Changes in equipment standards could adversely impact our Golf business. Our Spirits business is subject to extensive regulatory requirements regarding distribution, production, labeling, and marketing. Changes to regulation of the beverage alcohol industry could include increased limitations on advertising and promotional activities or other non-tariff measures that could adversely impact our spirits business. Increased excise taxes on distilled spirits could adversely affect our Spirits business. Distilled spirits are subject to excise tax in many countries where we operate. While no federal excise tax increase is presently pending in the United States, our largest market, fiscal pressures are rising dramatically, increasing the risk of a potential federal excise tax increase on spirits. Many states and other jurisdictions are considering possible excise tax increases. The effect of any future excise tax increases cannot be determined, but could have an adverse effect on our business by reducing demand. Potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation, including with respect to alcohol-related liability, as well as tobacco products made and sold by former subsidiaries. Our Golf business faces patent 15 Table of Contents litigation that could result in significant costs as well as potentially impact our ability to sell products. It is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably. Historical financial statements may not be reflective of our future financial condition and results of operations due to recent portfolio changes or other reasons. Although we believe that this report contains all material information that is necessary to make an informed assessment of our assets and liabilities, financial position, profit and losses and prospects, historical financial statements do not necessarily represent what our results of operations or financial position will be for any future periods. Major recent changes and changes in process include regaining full ownership of spirits U.S. distribution in 2008 and the establishment of a new international distribution alliance with The Edrington Group on April 1, 2009. The alliance will be a combination of jointly-owned and company-owned sales forces. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results and shareholder equity. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by our management at least annually. If carrying value exceeds current fair value as determined based on the discounted future cash flows of the related business, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in further impairments include a change in expected global consumer spending and timing of the recovery from the global recession, particularly the impact of the economic environment on our Home and Hardware business, and changes in the industries in which we operate as well as competition and advances in technology, a significant product liability or intellectual property claim, or other factors leading to reduction in expected long-term sales or profitability. If the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. Various other external conditions such as weather could adversely impact our sales, profitability, and cash flow from operations. Weather conditions are also a factor impacting year-to-year comparisons in our Golf business as well as our U.S. manufacturing capabilities. Specifically, adverse weather conditions can erode annual rounds of play, thus decreasing the demand for our golf products. In addition, extreme weather events could potentially disrupt the Company’s supply chain coordination in the event of damage to our facilities or the inventory located at our facilities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 16 Table of Contents 