ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsWe may be unable to compete successfully with larger companies in our highly competitive industry. The medical device industry is highly competitive. Our primary competitors are manufacturers of products used in competing therapies within the peripheral and coronary atherectomy markets, such as: •atherectomy and thrombectomy, using mechanical methods to remove arterial blockages (peripheral and coronary); •balloon angioplasty and stents (peripheral); •specialty balloon angioplasty, such as cutting balloons and drug-eluting balloons; •bypass surgery (peripheral and coronary); and •amputation (peripheral).Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and technical resources than we do. Larger competitors have substantially larger sales and marketing operations than we do. This allows those competitors to spend more time with potential customers and to focus on a larger number of potential customers, which gives them a significant advantage over our sales and marketing team and our international distributors in making sales. At times, we have experienced periods of higher sales personnel turnover, particularly in our VI sales organization. Sales turnover could be an issue in the future. Larger competitors also have broader product lines, which enables them to offer customers bundled purchase contracts and quantity discounts, and more experience than we have in research and development, marketing, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals and marketing approved products. Our competitors may discover technologies and techniques, or enter into partnerships and collaborations, in order to develop competing products that are more effective or less costly than the products we develop. This may render our technology or products obsolete or noncompetitive. Academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private research organizations may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products or technologies and may establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. As a result, our competitors may be better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture, market and sell competing products. We expect competition to intensify. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the interventional cardiology market include: •the ability to treat a variety of lesions safely and effectively as demonstrated by credible clinical data; •ease of use; •the impact of managed care practices, related reimbursement to the healthcare provider, and procedure costs; •size and effectiveness of sales forces; and •research and development capabilities.19Table of ContentsOur ability to increase our revenue is largely dependent on our ability to successfully penetrate our target markets and develop new products for those markets. Our ability to increase our revenue depends largely on our ability to increase sales in the PAD market and in the lead management market. In order to increase future revenue, we must increase sales of these and other products. New products will also need to be developed and approved by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies to sustain revenue growth in our markets. Additional clinical data and new products to treat coronary artery disease may be necessary to grow revenue within the coronary market, and we are not investing in these areas at this time. Our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. Market acceptance in the healthcare community, including physicians, patients and third-party payers, of our laser system and other products depends on many factors, including: •our ability to provide incremental clinical and economic data that shows the safety and clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness of, and patient benefits from, laser atherectomy and pacemaker and ICD lead removal; •the availability of alternative treatments; •the inclusion of our products on insurance company formularies; •the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to adopt new technologies; •the convenience and ease of use of our products relative to existing treatment methods; •the pricing and reimbursement of our products relative to existing treatment methods; and •marketing and distribution support for our products. Generally, any of our products may fail to achieve market acceptance. More specifically, if we do not educate physicians about PAD in general and the existence of our products in particular, these products may not gain market acceptance, as many physicians do not routinely screen for PAD while screening for coronary artery disease. In addition, if any of our products achieves market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if competing products or technologies are introduced that are received more favorably or are more cost effective. Failure to achieve or maintain market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not achieve our projected development and commercialization goals, our business may be harmed. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development and commercialization goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. There is a risk that we will not achieve these milestones on a timely basis or at all. For example, if we are unable to get agreement for an adjunctive data analysis from the FDA for an ISR indication prior to full enrollment of the EXCITE ISR study, or if we are unable to complete subject enrollments required by the FDA in a timely manner, the commercialization of our products for an ISR indication could be delayed beyond our anticipated date of mid-2014. Moreover, even if we are successful in achieving these milestones, the actual timing of the 20Table of Contentsachievement of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates—in many cases for reasons beyond our control—depending on numerous factors, including: •the rate of progress, costs and results of our clinical trials and research and development activities;•our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria;•the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating physicians and clinical institutions;•adverse reactions reported during clinical trials or commercialization;•the receipt of marketing approvals and clearances by our competitors and by us from the FDA and other regulatory agencies;•other actions by regulators, including actions related to a class of products; and•actions of our development partners in supporting product development programs. If we do not meet these milestones for our products or if we are delayed in achieving any of these milestones, the development and commercialization of new products, modifications of existing products or sales of existing products for new approved indications may be prevented or delayed, which could damage our reputation or materially adversely affect our business. We have a history of losses and may not be able to maintain profitability. We incurred net losses from our inception in 1984 until 2000, and again in 2002, 2006 and from 2008 to 2010. At December 31, 2012, we had accumulated $93.9 million in net losses since inception. Our net losses have decreased significantly, we were profitable in 2011 and 2012 and we intend to stay profitable; however, we may not remain profitable in the future.If we make acquisitions, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to our business. If we engage in such acquisitions, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies. Acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities, and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire companies, products or technologies, it may divert resources otherwise available for other purposes or increase our debt. If we use our common stock to acquire companies, products or technologies, we may experience a change of control or our stockholders may experience substantial dilution or both. If we are unable to obtain additional funding, we may be unable to make desirable acquisitions.We may require additional funds to make acquisitions of desirable companies, products, or technologies. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The inability to obtain additional capital may restrict our ability to grow and may reduce our ability to make desirable acquisitions. Any equity or convertible debt financing may involve substantial dilution to our existing stockholders.21Table of ContentsIf we do not effectively manage our growth or control costs related to growth, our results of operations will suffer.We intend to grow our business by expanding our customer base and product offerings, including through business combinations. Growth could place significant strain on our management, employees, operations, operating and financial systems, and other resources. To accommodate significant growth we could be required to open additional facilities, expand and improve our information systems and procedures, and hire, train, motivate, and manage a growing workforce, all of which would increase our costs. Our systems, facilities, procedures, and personnel may not be adequate to support our future operations. Further, we may not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth, effectively manage our expanding operations, or achieve planned growth on a timely and profitable basis.Our business may be adversely affected by litigation and other legal proceedings. From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property matters, product liability claims, employee claims, tort or contract claims, federal regulatory investigations, security class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits, and other legal proceedings or investigations, any of which could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business and financial condition and divert the attention of our management from the operation of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and can result in excessive or unanticipated verdicts and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Consequently, it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or for agreements to change the way we operate our business, or both. There may be an increase in the scope of these matters or there may be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future, any of which could have a material adverse impact on us. Moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers’ confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. We are generally obligated to indemnify officers and directors, including, in certain circumstances, former employees, against all losses, including expenses, incurred by them in legal proceedings and to advance their reasonable legal defense expenses, unless certain conditions apply. We maintain insurance for claims of this nature which does not apply in all such circumstances, may be denied or may not be adequate to cover all legal or other costs related to the investigation. A prolonged uninsured expense and indemnification obligation could have a material adverse impact on us. For example, from 2009 through 2012, we incurred more than $6 million in indemnification costs not covered by insurance for former employees who were charged in connection with a previously disclosed federal investigation. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by certain healthcare reform initiatives and other administrative and legislative proposals that may be adopted in the future in our key markets. In March 2010, the President of the United States signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (together, the “PPACA”), which makes significant changes to the way healthcare is financed by both federal and state governments and private insurers; and directly impacts the medical device and pharmaceutical industries. The PPACA includes, among other things, with limited exceptions, a deductible excise tax of 2.3% on sales of products by entities that manufacture or import certain medical devices offered for sale in the United States, effective January 1, 2013. Revenues from many of our products are now subject to that excise tax. It is unclear whether we will be able to offset the cost of the tax through higher sales volumes resulting from the expansion of health insurance coverage. Various healthcare reform proposals also have emerged at the state level. We expect that the PPACA, as well as other federal and state healthcare initiatives that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our results of operations.22Table of ContentsRegulatory compliance is expensive and complex, and approvals can often be denied or significantly delayed. Our products are regulated as medical devices, which are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and similar state and foreign agencies. Complying with these regulations is costly, time consuming and complex. FDA regulations and regulations of similar state and foreign agencies are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: •product design, development, manufacture and testing; •product safety and efficacy; •product labeling; •product storage and shipping; •record keeping; •pre-market clearance or approval; •advertising and promotion; •product sales and distribution; and •post-market surveillance and reporting of deaths or serious injuries. All of our potential products and improvements of our current products are subject to extensive regulation and will require clearance or approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies prior to commercial sale and distribution. Pursuant to FDA regulations, unless exempt, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. In some cases, a 510(k) clearance must be supported by preclinical and clinical data. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) process, and must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. Therefore, in order to obtain regulatory clearance or approvals, we typically must, among other requirements, provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with preclinical and clinical data that demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and such other authorities that our products satisfy the criteria for clearance or approval. Preclinical testing and clinical trials must comply with the regulations of the FDA and other government authorities in the United States and similar agencies in other countries. Additionally, we may be required to obtain PMAs, PMA supplements or additional 510(k) premarket clearances to market modifications to our existing products. The FDA requires device manufacturers to make and document a determination of whether a modification requires an approval, supplement or clearance; however, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions not to seek approvals, supplements or clearances for particular device modifications. If the FDA requires us to obtain PMAs, PMA supplements or pre-market clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we will likely be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or perhaps also to recall such modified device until we obtain FDA clearance or approval and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, there can be no assurance that the FDA will clear or approve such submissions in a timely manner, if at all. 23Table of ContentsInternational regulatory approval processes may take longer than the FDA approval process. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, we may not receive regulatory approvals or may be subject to fines, suspensions or revocations of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, criminal prosecutions and other penalties. We may be unable to obtain future regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all, especially if existing regulations are changed or new regulations are adopted. For example, the FDA clearance process for the use of excimer laser technology in clearing blocked arteries in the leg took longer than we anticipated due to requests for additional clinical data and changes in regulatory requirements. A failure or delay in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals would materially adversely affect our business. If our clinical trials are unsuccessful or significantly delayed, or if we do not complete our clinical trials, our business may be harmed. Clinical development is a long, expensive, and uncertain process and is subject to delays and to the risk that products may ultimately prove ineffective in treating the indications for which they are designed. Completion of the necessary clinical trials usually takes several years or more. We cannot assure you that we will successfully complete clinical testing of our products within the time frame we have planned, or at all. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and positive results in early trials may not be indicative of success in later trials. A number of companies in the medical device industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval for new products, modification of existing products, or new approved indications for existing products including the following: •delays in enlisting an adequate number of subjects in clinical trials when competing with other companies; •enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or we may experience high drop-out rates of subjects from our clinical trials, resulting in significant delays;•the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find that the product is not sufficiently safe for investigational use in humans; •officials at the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than we do; •there may be delays or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA or other regulatory authorities; •there may be delays in obtaining institutional review board approvals or government approvals to conduct clinical trials at prospective sites; •the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or facilities unsatisfactory; •the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations that may negatively affect or delay our ability to bring a product to market or receive approvals or clearances for the treatment of new indications; •our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing or to abandon programs;24Table of Contents •we may experience difficulties in managing multiple clinical sites; •trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; •we may experience delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with third party research organizations and trial sites that will conduct the clinical trials; and •we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials because the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials will delay and may prevent our product development and regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position.From time to time we engage outside parties to perform services related to certain of our clinical studies and trials, and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could result in costs and delays. From time to time we engage consultants and contract research organizations to help design, monitor and analyze the results of certain of our clinical studies and trials. The consultants and contract research organizations we engage interact with clinical investigators to enroll patients in our clinical trials. As a result, we depend on these consultants, contract research organizations and clinical investigators to perform the clinical studies and trials and monitor and analyze data from these studies and trials in accordance with the investigational plan and protocol for the study or trial and in compliance with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting results of clinical studies or trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and the trial participants are adequately protected, as required by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. The consultants and contract research organizations are responsible for protecting confidential patient data and complying with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations related to data privacy, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. We may face delays in our regulatory approval process if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion or if we are forced to change service providers. This risk is heightened for our clinical studies and trials conducted outside of the United States, where it may be more difficult to ensure that our studies and trials are conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Any third parties that we hire to design or monitor and analyze results of our clinical studies and trials may also provide services to our competitors, which could compromise the performance of their obligations to us. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality, completeness or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for other reasons, our clinical studies or trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may otherwise prove to be unsuccessful, and our development costs will increase. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain relationships with these third parties on favorable terms, or at all. If we need to enter into replacement arrangements because a third party is not performing in accordance with our expectations, we may not be able to do so without undue delays or considerable expenditures or at all. Our regulatory compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations. The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing, import, export and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the United States and in foreign countries, including the new National Physician Payment Transparency Program in the U.S. which requires reporting of payments to physicians beginning in 2013. Congress and certain governmental entities, such as the FDA and Department of Justice, have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. Although 25Table of Contentswe have a regulatory compliance program, our employees, our consultants, or our contractors may not be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state laws and regulations or all potentially applicable foreign laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, penalties and/or damages, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. Compliance with the terms and conditions of our Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services requires significant resources and management time and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties or, under certain circumstances, excluded from government healthcare programs, which would materially adversely affect our business. In December 2009, as part of the settlement of a federal investigation of our company, we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement (CIA) with the OIG. The CIA provides criteria for establishing and maintaining compliance with various federal laws and regulations governing our clinical investigation related functions, reporting related functions and certain of our promotional and product services related functions. It applies to all of our U.S. subsidiaries and employees and certain of our employees based outside the U.S. Under the CIA, we are required, among other things, to keep in place our current compliance program, to provide specified training to employees, and to retain an independent review organization to perform reviews to assist us in assessing and evaluating our various functions discussed above. Maintaining the broad array of processes, policies and procedures necessary to comply with the CIA is expected to continue to require a significant portion of management’s attention and the application of significant resources. Failure to meet the CIA obligations could have serious consequences for us including stipulated monetary penalties for each instance of noncompliance. In addition, material breaches of the CIA could result in our being excluded from participating in federal healthcare programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our products are subject to recalls after receiving FDA or foreign approval or clearance, which would divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation, and could adversely affect our business. We are subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA or similar foreign governmental authorities if our products cause or contribute to death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to occur. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary product recall by us could occur as a result of, among other things, component failures, device malfunctions, or other adverse events, such as serious injuries or deaths, or quality-related issues such as manufacturing errors or design or labeling defects. For example, in 2010 our QuickCat product was subject to a voluntary recall that resulted in a $0.3 million charge. Any recalls of any of our products could divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation, and could adversely affect our business. The continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong working relationships with physicians.If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. The research, development, marketing, and sale of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the 26Table of Contentsdevelopment, marketing, and sale of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong working relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.Some of our patents have expired and our patents and proprietary rights may be proved invalid or unenforceable, which would enable competitors to copy our products. We hold patents and licenses to use patented technology, and have pending patent applications. Our patents cover numerous inventions, including general features of the laser system, features of our catheters and other technologies. Our patents periodically expire, including patents that will expire in 2013 and 2014. Our competitors may seek to produce products that include these technologies, which are no longer subject to patent protection, and this increase in competition may negatively affect our business. The patents we own and license may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or to give us any competitive advantage. Our patents could be challenged as invalid, unenforceable, or circumvented by competitors. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which our products are marketed. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our products or technologies may infringe. Challenges raised in patent infringement litigation may result in determinations that our patents or licensed patents are invalid, unenforceable or otherwise subject to limitations. In such events, third parties may be able to use the discoveries or technologies without paying damages, licensing fees or royalties to us, which could significantly diminish the value of our intellectual property. We could also be adversely affected if any of our licensors terminates our licenses to use patented technology. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have important sole source suppliers and may be unable to replace them if they stop supplying us. We purchase certain components of our CVX-300 laser system and select disposable products from several sole source suppliers. We do not have guaranteed commitments from these suppliers, as we order products through purchase orders placed with these suppliers from time to time. While we believe that we could obtain replacement components from alternative suppliers, we may be unable to do so. The loss of any of these suppliers could result in a disruption in our production. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors. In addition, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials may take a substantial period of time, as certain of these suppliers must be approved by regulatory authorities. If we are unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture our CVX-300 laser systems and disposable products, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find replacement suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of our CVX-300 laser system and disposable products may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business. The amount of our net operating loss carryovers may be limited. We have net operating loss carryovers (NOLs) that may be used by us to offset against taxable income, if any, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, the amount of NOLs that we may use in any year in the U.S. could be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, in addition to certain limitations to which we are subject. In general, Section 382 would limit our ability to use NOLs for U.S. federal income tax 27Table of Contentspurposes in the event of certain changes in ownership of our company. Any limitation of our use of NOLs could (depending on the extent of such limitation and the amount of NOLs previously used) result in us retaining less cash after payment of U.S. federal income taxes during any year in which we have taxable income (rather than losses) than we would be entitled to retain if such NOLs were available as an offset against such income for U.S. federal income tax reporting purposes. The FDA requires the use of adjunctive balloon angioplasty in coronary procedures performed using our products, which increases the cost of performing these procedures. The FDA has required that the label for the CVX-300 excimer laser system state that adjunctive balloon angioplasty was performed together with laser atherectomy in the coronary procedures we submitted to the FDA for PMA. This means that our laser system cannot be used alone to treat coronary conditions. Adjunctive balloon angioplasty requires the purchase of a balloon catheter in addition to the laser catheter. The requirement that our coronary procedures be performed together with balloon angioplasty increases the aggregate cost of performing these procedures. As a result, third-party payers may attempt to deny or limit reimbursement, including if they determine that a device used in a procedure was experimental, was used for a non-approved indication or was not used in accordance with established pay protocols regarding cost effective treatment methods. Hospitals that have experienced reimbursement problems or expect to experience reimbursement problems may not acquire or may cease using our laser system and disposable products. Technological change may result in our products becoming obsolete. The medical device market is characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological change. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of our disposable catheters. Technological progress or new developments in our industry could adversely affect sales of our products. Our products could be rendered obsolete as a result of future innovations in the treatment of cardiovascular disease. We and our component suppliers may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain good manufacturing practice regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. Our component suppliers are also required to meet certain standards applicable to their manufacturing processes. We cannot assure you that we or any of our component suppliers is in compliance or will be able to maintain compliance with all regulatory requirements. The failure by us or one of our component suppliers to achieve or maintain compliance with these requirements or quality standards may disrupt our ability to supply products sufficient to meet demand until compliance is achieved or, in the case of a component supplier, until a new supplier has been identified and evaluated. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that if we find it necessary to engage new suppliers to satisfy our business requirements, then we will be able to locate new suppliers who are in compliance with regulatory requirements. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the European Union, we are required to maintain certain International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies, including 28Table of Contentsthe BSi, to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we fail these inspections or fail to meet these regulatory standards, our business could be materially adversely affected. We do not manufacture the TAPAS catheter, the Quick-Access Needle Holder, or the Quick-Cross Capture Guidewire Retriever, and any interruption in the supply of these products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We distribute the TAPAS catheter under a distribution agreement with the manufacturer. The Quick-Access Needle Holder and the Quick-Cross Capture Guidewire Retriever are manufactured for us by a third-party manufacturer. The manufacturers may be unable to deliver an adequate supply of these products in a timely manner, or at all. Such inability by the manufacturers would likely disrupt our ability to supply these products to our customers because we currently do not have a replacement manufacturer. Any interruption in the supply of these products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Healthcare cost containment pressures and legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive coverage and reimbursement practices of third-party payers could decrease the demand for our products, the prices that customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures performed using our devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our products are purchased principally by hospitals and stand-alone peripheral intervention practices, which typically bill various third-party payers, including governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement for our products and services from government and private third-party payers is critical to our success. The availability of coverage and reimbursement affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from country to country, state to state and plan to plan and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and services. Certain private third-party payers may view some of the procedures using our products as experimental and may not provide coverage. Third-party payers may not cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or payment rates may not be adequate, or both. Further, the adequacy of coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers is also related to the existence of billing codes to describe procedures that are performed using our products. There are currently a number of billing codes that are used by hospitals and physicians to bill for such procedures. The billing codes currently available may not continue to be recognized by third-party payers for use by our customers. After we develop new products or seek to market our products for new approved indications, we may find limited demand for the product unless adequate coverage and reimbursement is obtained from government and private third-party payers. Even with reimbursement approval and coverage by government and private payers, providers submitting reimbursement claims may face delay in payment if there is confusion on the part of providers regarding the appropriate codes to use in seeking reimbursement. Such delays may create an unfavorable impression within the marketplace regarding the level of reimbursement or coverage available for our products. Demand for our products or new approved indications for our existing products may fluctuate over time if federal or state legislative or administrative policy changes affect coverage or reimbursement levels for our products or the services related to our products. In the United States, there have been and we expect there will continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system, some of which could significantly affect our business. Legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for those procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. 29Table of ContentsWe may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Such laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and related state anti-kickback laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of, or arranging for or recommending the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal Stark law and self-referral prohibitions under analogous state laws restrict referrals by physicians and, in some instances, other healthcare providers, practitioners and professionals, to entities with which they have indirect or direct financial relationships for furnishing of designated health services. These healthcare fraud and abuse laws are subject to evolving interpretations by various federal and state enforcement and regulatory authorities. Under current interpretations of the Federal False Claims Act and certain similar state laws, some of these laws also may be subject to enforcement in a qui tam lawsuit brought by a private party “whistleblower,” with or without the intervention of the government. If our operations, including our laser system placement and disposable sales and marketing programs, clinical research and consulting arrangements with physicians are found to be in violation of these laws and not protected under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor provision, we, our officers or our employees may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and other federal healthcare program participation, including the exclusion of our products from use in treatment of Medicare or other federal healthcare program patients. If federal or state investigations or enforcement actions were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals in other countries for our products, we will not be able to market our products in such countries, which could harm our business. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our products, new products or additional indications for our existing products outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require, among other things, additional testing and different clinical trial designs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Some foreign regulatory agencies also must approve the reimbursement policies related to specific products. We have experienced difficulties in the past in obtaining reimbursement approvals for our products in Europe and are currently seeking regulatory and reimbursement approval for certain of our products in Japan. We cannot assure you that this approval will be obtained or that revenue in Japan will increase if this approval is received. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to market our existing products in any foreign country. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required approvals in any foreign country, we will not be able to sell our products in that country and our ability to generate revenue could be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to the risks that come from having international operations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our revenue from international operations represented 16% of consolidated revenue, of which 13% of consolidated revenue was generated in Europe, the Middle East and Russia. Changes in overseas political or economic conditions, war or other conflicts, currency exchange rates, foreign laws regulating the approval and sales of medical devices, foreign tax laws or tariffs, other trade regulations or intellectual property protection could adversely affect our ability to market our products outside the United States. In addition, our international operations subject us to the extraterritorial effects of U.S. laws such as the Foreign 30Table of ContentsCorrupt Practices Act. Any significant changes in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we will conduct international operations may have a material adverse impact on our business. To the extent we expand our international operations, we expect our sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies to expand, therefore increasing the risk that we will be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We currently do not hedge against foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced consolidated revenue or increased operating expenses. We use both a direct sales organization and distributors for sales of our products throughout most of Europe, the Middle East, the Pacific Rim and Latin America. The sales and marketing efforts on our behalf by international distributors could fail to attain long-term success. If our manufacturing operations are interrupted for any reason, our results may be adversely affected. Our ability to manufacture our products may be adversely affected by factors such as a failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors or damage to our facility. In the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to quickly move to alternate means of producing affected products or to meet customer demand. In some instances, for example, if the interruption is a result of a failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to needs for regulatory approvals. As a result, we may suffer loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Product liability and other claims against us may reduce demand for our products or result in substantial damages. Our business exposes us to potential liability for risks that may arise from the clinical testing of our unapproved or cleared new products, the clinical testing of expanded indications for existing products, the use of our products by physicians and the manufacture and sale of any approved products. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us, including frivolous lawsuits, if one of our products causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. We maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $20 million per occurrence with an annual aggregate maximum of $20 million. We cannot assure, however, that product liability claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance coverage limits will continue to be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our insurers may also claim that certain claims are not within the scope of our product liability insurance. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any product liability claim or series of claims or class actions brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: •liabilities that substantially exceed our insurance levels, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; •an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to renew or obtain product liability insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; •withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or subjects; •damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products; •regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; •litigation costs; and •diversion of management’s attention from managing our business.31Table of Contents Patients treated with our products often are seriously ill or have pacemaker or ICD leads embedded and surrounded by scar tissue within their chest. Patients treated with our products may suffer from severe infection, peripheral artery disease, coronary artery disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and other problematic conditions. During procedures or the clinical follow-up subsequent to procedures involving the use of our products, serious adverse events may occur and some patients may die. Serious adverse events or patient deaths involving the use of our products may subject us to product liability litigation, product recalls or limit our ability to grow our revenue, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Claims may be made by consumers, healthcare providers or others selling our products. We may be subject to claims against us even if an alleged injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of physicians, nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedures and related processes relating to our products. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent in using our products, the therapeutic effect of our products may be diminished or the patient may suffer injury or death, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury or death resulting from the activities of our suppliers may serve as a basis for a claim against us. We maintain policies and procedures and require training designed to educate our employees that off-label promotion is illegal. However, we cannot prevent a physician from using our products for any off-label applications. If injury to a patient results from such use, we may become involved in a product liability suit, which may be expensive to defend. Even if we do not become involved in a suit, quality or safety issues could result in reputational harm, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of devices, civil or criminal sanctions, or withdrawal of existing approvals. Although there is federal preemption for medical devices approved by the FDA under a pre-market approval application that in some situations provides a shield against state tort product liability claims, Supreme Court decisions or federal legislation could reverse the exemption. If this preemption is removed, product liability claims may increase. Moreover, federal preemption for medical devices cleared through the 510(k) process is limited, if it exists at all. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and liability. There may be patents and patent applications owned by others relating to laser and fiber-optic or other technologies, which, if determined to be valid and enforceable, may be infringed by us. Holders of certain patents, including holders of patents involving the use of lasers in the body, may contact us and request that we enter into license agreements for the underlying technology and pay them royalties, which could be substantial. We cannot guarantee that other patent holders will not file a lawsuit against us and prevail. If we decide that we need to obtain a license to use any intellectual property, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on favorable terms or at all or we may be required to make substantial royalty or other payments to use this intellectual property. Litigation concerning patents and proprietary rights is time-consuming, expensive, unpredictable and could divert the attention of our management from our business operations. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. An unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding or patent infringement suit could require us to pay substantial damages, cease using the technology or to license rights, potentially at a substantial cost, from prevailing third parties. There is no guarantee that any prevailing party would offer us a license or that we could acquire any license made available to us on commercially acceptable terms. Even if we are able to obtain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, those rights may be non-exclusive and therefore our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. To the extent we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property of others, we may not be able to develop or otherwise obtain alternative technology. If we need to redesign our products to avoid third party patents, we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional studies or submitting technical, manufacturing or other information related to any 32Table of Contentsredesigned product and, ultimately, in obtaining regulatory approval. Further, any such redesigns may result in less effective and/or less commercially desirable products. If we are not able to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary technology, we may suffer competitive harm. In addition to patented intellectual property, we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary technology, confidential information and know-how to protect our technology and maintain our competitive position, particularly when we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology are difficult to protect. In order to protect proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information nor result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information that have been licensed to us or that we own, and in such case, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using trade secrets that have been licensed to us or that we own is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or unpatented proprietary technology. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Environmental and health safety laws may result in liabilities, expenses and restrictions on our operations. Federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding environmental protection, hazardous substances and human health and safety may adversely affect our business. The use of hazardous substances in our operations exposes us to the risk of accidental injury, contamination or other liability from the use, storage, importation, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. If our or our suppliers’ operations result in the contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, we could be liable for damages and fines, and any liability could significantly exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We maintain insurance for certain environmental risks, subject to substantial deductibles; however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain this insurance in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. Future changes to environmental and health and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expenses or restrict our operations. We depend on attracting, retaining and developing key management, clinical, scientific and sales and marketing personnel, and the loss of these personnel could impair the development and sales of our products. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate highly qualified management, clinical, scientific and sales and marketing personnel. We do not have employment agreements with any of our employees, other than our chief executive officer. Their employment with us is “at will,” and each employee, other than our chief executive officer, can terminate his or her employment with us at any time. As a condition of employment, our employees sign a confidentiality and trade secrets agreement that precludes them, upon termination of their employment, from recruiting our employees or working for a direct competitor. We also have agreements with several of our officers that provide for the payment of either one year’s salary plus bonus or six months’ salary plus bonus in the event of separation of the officer’s employment in certain circumstances. The agreements also prohibit the officer from competing with us and soliciting our employees and customers in the case of termination of employment. The enforceability of these agreements depends on the circumstances at the time of separation, and the agreements may be difficult to enforce. We do not carry key person insurance covering members of senior management. The competition for qualified personnel in the medical device industry is intense. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our development activities and drive sales of our 33Table of Contentsproducts. We may not be able to attract, retain and develop quality personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.Many healthcare industry companies, including healthcare systems, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. If we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows would suffer.An interruption in or breach of security of our information or manufacturing systems, including the occurrence of a cyber incident or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, may result in a loss of business or damage to our reputation.We rely on communications, information and manufacturing systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or cyber incident of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management or product manufacturing. A cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to information systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or cyber incidents could result in a loss of customer business or reputation and have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.A U.S. and global economic downturn could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. The European sovereign debt crisis has increased concerns about global economic recovery. Over the past several years, the credit and capital markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. The strength of the United States and global economy is uncertain, and the United States may experience slowed growth or another recession. Turbulence in the financial markets and general economic uncertainties may make it more difficult and more expensive for hospitals and health systems to obtain credit, which would contribute to pressures on our operating margin, resulting from rising supply costs, reduced investment income and philanthropic giving, increased interest expense, reimbursement pressure, reduced elective healthcare spending and uncompensated care. In such circumstances, we expect many of our customers would continue to scrutinize costs, trim budgets and look for opportunities to further reduce or slow capital spending. In addition, the potential decline in federal and state revenues that may result from such conditions may create additional pressures to contain or reduce reimbursements for our products from Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored programs. Increasing job losses or slow improvement in the unemployment rate in the U.S. has and may continue to result in a smaller percentage of patients being covered by an employer group health plan and a larger percentage being covered by lower paying Medicare and Medicaid programs.Further, a strengthening of the United States dollar in conjunction with the European sovereign debt crisis or other negative economic event may adversely affect the results of our international operations when those results are translated into United States dollars. Additionally, disruptions in the credit markets could impede our access to capital, which could be further adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our current credit ratings. If we cannot obtain financing, we may need to defer capital expenditures or seek other sources of liquidity, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms if at all. All of these factors related to the global economic situation, which 34Table of Contentsare beyond our control, could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock, similar to other medical device companies, has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The trading price of our stock varied from a low of $7.04 to a high of $15.45 during 2012. The following factors, among other things, may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results and the operating results of competitors;•announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;•results of clinical trials or studies by us or our competitors;•governmental regulation;•developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, including assertions that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others;•public concern regarding the safety of products developed by us or others;•the initiation or cessation in coverage of our common stock, or changes in estimates or recommendations concerning us or our common stock, by securities analysts;•changes in accounting principles;•past or future management changes;•litigation;•adverse developments in any government inquiry or investigation;•changes in general market and economic conditions; and•the possibility of our financing future operations through additional issuances of equity securities, which may result in dilution to existing stockholders. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Following the decrease in our stock price in September 2008 and following the execution of a search warrant related to a government investigation of us and certain of our employees, we became the target of securities litigation. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business and could require us to make substantial payments to settle those proceedings or satisfy any judgments that may be reached against us. 35Table of ContentsProtections against unsolicited takeovers in our charter and bylaws may reduce or eliminate our stockholders’ ability to resell their shares at a premium over market price. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions relating to issuance of preferred stock, special meetings of stockholders and advance notification procedures for stockholder proposals that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an unsolicited change in the control of Spectranetics. Our board of directors is elected for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing all directors at each annual meeting and may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which in general and subject to exceptions, prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” (as defined in Section 203) with an “interested stockholder” (as defined in Section 203) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company even at a price our stockholders may find attractive. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 