ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our ability to increase our revenue is largely dependent on our ability to successfully penetrate our target markets and develop new products for those markets. Our ability to increase our revenue from current levels depends largely on our ability to increase sales in the peripheral arterial disease, or PAD, market with our CLiRpath line of disposable catheters that was introduced in 2004. A substantial portion of our growth in 2006 and 2005 was derived from sales of our CLiRpath catheters and in order to increase future revenue, we must increase sales of these products to existing and new customers. Beyond CLiRpath, new products will need to be developed and approved by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies to sustain revenue growth within the market. In that regard, while our focus is on the PAD market, we currently have FDA clearance for only one indication for the treatment of PAD. Additional clinical data and new products to treat coronary artery disease will also be necessary to grow revenue within the coronary market. Our future growth depends on physician adoption of our products, which requires physicians to change their screening, referral and treatment practices. Although we believe there is a correlation between PAD and coronary artery disease, many physicians do not routinely screen for PAD while screening for coronary artery disease. We target our sales efforts to interventional cardiologists, vascular surgeons and interventional radiologists because they are often the primary care physicians diagnosing and treating both coronary artery disease and PAD. However, the initial point of contact for many patients may be other physicians, including general practitioners and podiatrists, each of whom commonly treats patients experiencing complications resulting from PAD. If we do not educate referring physicians about PAD in general and the existence of our products in particular, they may not refer patients to interventional cardiologists, vascular surgeons or interventional radiologists for treatment with our laser system. In addition, in order to grow sales of our lead removal products, we must change the current standard of care for abandoned pacemaker and ICD leads, which is simply to cap the abandoned leads and leave them in the body. If we are not successful in educating physicians about screening for PAD or about risks related to infected, defective or abandoned pacemaker and ICD leads, our ability to increase our revenue may be impaired. 18 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete successfully with bigger companies in our highly competitive industry. The industry in which we compete is highly competitive. Our primary competitors are manufacturers of products used in competing therapies within the peripheral and coronary atherectomy markets, such as: • atherectomy and thrombectomy, using mechanical methods to remove arterial blockages (peripheral and coronary); • balloon angioplasty and stents (peripheral); • bypass surgery (peripheral and coronary); and • amputation (peripheral). Although balloon angioplasty and stents are used extensively in the coronary vascular system, we do not compete directly with these products. Rather, our laser technology is used as an adjunctive treatment to balloon angioplasty and stents in complex coronary procedures. Almost all of our competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and technical resources than we do. Larger competitors have a broader product line, which enables them to offer customers bundled purchase contracts and quantity discounts, and more experience than we have in research and development, marketing, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals and marketing approved products. Our competitors may discover technologies and techniques, or enter into partnerships with collaborators, in order to develop competing products that are more effective or less costly than the products we develop. This may render our technology or products obsolete and noncompetitive. Academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private research organizations may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products or technologies and may establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. As a result, our competitors may be better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture, market and sell competing products. We expect competition to intensify. We believe that primary competitive factors in the interventional cardiology market include: • the ability to treat a variety of lesions safely and effectively as demonstrated by credible clinical data; • the impact of managed care practices, related reimbursement to the healthcare provider, and procedure costs; • ease of use; • size and effectiveness of sales forces; and • research and development capabilities. Manufacturers of atherectomy or thrombectomy devices include SCIMED Life Systems, Inc. (a subsidiary of Boston Scientific Corporation), Abbott Vascular, Fox Hollow Technologies, Inc., Possis Medical, Inc. and Straub Medical AG. There are other potential competitors, such as Pathway Medical Technologies, Inc. and Cardiovascular Systems, Inc., that are currently seeking FDA clearance to market their mechanical atherectomy devices. We also compete with companies marketing lead extraction devices or removal methods, such as mechanical sheaths. In the lead removal market, we compete in the United States with lead removal devices manufactured by Cook Vascular Inc. and we compete in Europe with lead removal devices manufactured by VascoMed-Institute fur Kathertechnologie GmbH, or VascoMed. Our products may not achieve market acceptance. Our laser system and other products may not gain market acceptance. Market acceptance in the healthcare community, including physicians, patients and third-party payers, of our laser system and other products depends on many factors, including: • our ability to provide incremental clinical and economic data that shows the safety and clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness of, and patient benefits from, laser atherectomy and pacemaker and ICD lead removal; 19 Table of Contents • the availability of alternative treatments; • the inclusion of our products on insurance company formularies; • the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to adopt new technologies; • the convenience and ease of use of our products relative to existing treatment methods; • the pricing and reimbursement of our products relative to existing treatment methods; and • marketing and distribution support for our products. In addition, if any of our products achieves market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if competing products or technologies are introduced that are received more favorably or are more cost effective. Failure to achieve or maintain market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the timeframes we announce and expect, the commercialization of our products under development may be delayed and our business may be harmed. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development and commercialization goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. There is a risk that we will not be successful in achieving these milestones on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, even if we are successful in achieving these milestones, the actual timing of the achievement of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates — in many cases for reasons beyond our control — depending on numerous factors, including: • the rate of progress, costs and results of our clinical trials and research and development activities; • our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria; • the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating physicians and clinical institutions; • the receipt of marketing approvals and clearances by our competitors and by us from the FDA and other regulatory agencies; • other actions by regulators, including actions related to a class of products; and • actions of our development partners in supporting product development programs. If we do not meet these milestones for our products or if we are delayed in achieving any of these milestones, the development and commercialization of new products, modifications of existing products or sales of existing products for new approved indications may be prevented or delayed, which could damage our reputation or materially adversely affect our business. If our clinical trials are unsuccessful or significantly delayed, or if we do not complete our clinical trials, our business may be harmed. All of our potential products and improvements of our current products are subject to extensive regulation and will require approval or clearance from the FDA and other regulatory agencies prior to commercial sale and distribution. Pursuant to FDA regulations, unless exempt, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved pre-market approval application, or PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. In some cases, a 510(k) clearance must be supported by preclinical and clinical data. The PMA application process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) process, and must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. Therefore, in order to obtain regulatory approvals or clearance, we typically must, among other requirements, provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with preclinical and clinical data that demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and 20 Table of Contents such other authorities that our products satisfy the criteria for approval or clearance. Preclinical testing and clinical trials must comply with the regulations of the FDA and other government authorities in the United States and similar agencies in other countries. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and to the risk that products may ultimately prove ineffective in treating the indications for which they are designed. Completion of the necessary clinical trials usually takes several years or more. We cannot assure you that we will successfully complete clinical testing of our products within the time frame we have planned, or at all. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and positive results in early trials may not be indicative of success in later trials. A number of companies in the medical device industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval for new products, modification of existing products, or new approved indications for existing products including the following: • the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find that the product is not sufficiently safe or effective; • officials at the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than we do; • there may be delays or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • there may be delays in obtaining institutional review board approvals or government approvals to conduct clinical trials at prospective sites; • the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or facilities unsatisfactory; • the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations that may negatively affect or delay our ability to bring a product to market or receive approvals or clearances for the treatment of new indications; • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing or to abandon programs; • we may experience difficulties in managing multiple clinical sites; • trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • we have experienced delays in enlisting an adequate number of patients in prior clinical trials, and we may be unable to attract subjects for our clinical trials when competing with larger companies who are able to offer larger financial incentives to their customers to support their clinical trials; • enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or we may experience high drop-out rates of subjects in our clinical trials, resulting in significant delays; • we may experience delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with third party research organizations and trial sites that will conduct the clinical trials; • our products may be, or may be perceived by healthcare providers to be, unsafe or ineffective for a particular indication; and • we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials because the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials will delay and may prevent our product development and regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position. 21 Table of Contents Our small sales and marketing team may be unable to compete with our larger competitors or to reach potential customers. Although we are expanding our sales and marketing organizations, most of our competitors have substantially larger sales and marketing operations than we do. This allows those competitors to spend more time with potential customers and to focus on a larger number of potential customers, which gives them a significant advantage over our team in making sales. We are providing sales training, and as we add new field sales employees we will attempt to recruit candidates with more sales experience. However, we cannot assure you that our sales training and recruiting will improve productivity within our field sales organization. Further, we may experience higher turnover within our field sales organization than we have in the past because we are shifting our emphasis to sales personnel with sales experience rather than a clinical background. Regulatory compliance is expensive and approvals can often be denied or significantly delayed. Our products are regulated as medical devices, which are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable state and foreign agencies. Complying with these regulations is costly and time consuming. FDA regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • product design, development, manufacture and testing; • product safety and efficacy; • product labeling; • product storage and shipping; • record keeping; • pre-market clearance or approval; • advertising and promotion; • product sales and distribution; and • post-market surveillance and reporting of deaths or serious injuries. Additionally, we may be required to obtain PMAs, PMA supplements or 510(k) pre-market clearances to market modifications to our existing products. The FDA requires device manufacturers themselves to make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires an approval, supplement or clearance; however, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions not to seek approvals, supplements or clearances for particular device modifications. If the FDA requires us to obtain PMAs, PMA supplements or pre-market clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall such modified device until we obtain FDA clearance or approval and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, there can be no assurance that the FDA will clear or approve such submissions in a timely manner, if at all. International regulatory approval processes may take longer than the FDA approval process. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, we may not receive regulatory approvals or may be subject to fines, suspensions or revocations of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, criminal prosecutions and other penalties. We may be unable to obtain future regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all, especially if existing regulations are changed or new regulations are adopted. For example, the FDA clearance process for the use of excimer laser technology in clearing blocked arteries in the leg took longer than we anticipated due to requests for additional clinical data and changes in regulatory requirements. A failure or delay in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals would materially adversely affect our business. Some of our licensed patents have recently expired and others will expire in 2010, and our patents and proprietary rights may be proved invalid, which would enable competitors to copy our products. We hold patents and licenses to use patented technology, and have pending patent applications. Our patents cover the connection (coupler) between our laser catheters and the laser unit, general features of the laser system, system patents that include the use of our laser and our catheters together, and specific design 22 Table of Contents features of our catheters. Two of our licensed patents relating to a laser method for severing or removing blockages within the body expired in August and November 2005, respectively, and another of our licensed patents relating to the use of a laser in a body lumen expired in July 2006. In addition, certain of our coupler patents and system patents expire in 2010. We are currently exploring new technology and design changes that may extend the patent protection for the coupler and system patents; however, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in doing so. As a result, upon expiration of these patents, our competitors may seek to produce products that include this technology which is no longer subject to patent protection and this increase in competition may negatively affect our business. We have a history of losses and may not be able to maintain profitability. We incurred losses from operations since our inception in September 1984 until the second quarter of 2001, and we incurred net losses in the first and second quarters of 2002 and throughout most of 2006. At December 31, 2006, we had accumulated $73.8 million in net losses since inception. We expect that our research, development and clinical trial activities and regulatory approvals, together with future selling, general and administrative activities and the costs associated with launching our products for additional indications, will result in significant expenses for the foreseeable future. The adoption of Statement 123R will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. As of January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement 123R, which requires companies to measure all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method and to record that expense in their financial statements. We have adopted Statement 123R on a modified prospective basis as defined in the statement and, under this adoption method, we have begun recording expense relating to employee stock-based compensation awards in the periods subsequent to December 31, 2005. Accordingly, our statements of operations for years ended December 31, 2005 and prior do not reflect the effect of Statement 123R, whereas our statement of operations for subsequent periods will reflect the impact of Statement 123R. The adoption of Statement 123R had an adverse effect on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006, and we expect it will continue to do so for subsequent periods. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies,” and Note 1(m) to our consolidated financial statements. The amount of our net operating loss carryovers may be limited. We have net operating loss carryovers, or NOLs, which may be used by us as an offset against taxable income, if any, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, the amount of NOLs that we may use in any year could be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, in addition to certain limitations we are currently subject to. In general, Section 382 would limit our ability to use NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the event of certain changes in ownership of our company. Any limitation of our use of NOLs could (depending on the extent of such limitation and the amount of NOLs previously used) result in us retaining less cash after payment of U.S. federal income taxes during any year in which we have taxable income (rather than losses) than we would be entitled to retain if such NOLs were available as an offset against such income for U.S. federal income tax reporting purposes. We also have tax loss carryforwards in the Netherlands, which have no expiration date. However, in 2004, the Netherlands tax authorities proposed that substantially all of the tax loss carryforwards be disallowed. We are actively defending the availability of these loss carryforwards. These foreign loss carryforwards have been fully reserved with a valuation allowance. If the tax loss carryforwards are ultimately disallowed, there will be no negative impact to our statement of operations, although it may adversely affect our future cash flow and financial position. Our products are subject to recalls after receiving FDA or foreign approval or clearance, which would divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation, and could adversely affect our business. We are subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA or similar foreign governmental authorities if our products cause or contribute to death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to 23 Table of Contents occur. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary product recall by us could occur as a result of, among other things, component failures, device malfunctions, or other adverse events, such as serious injuries or deaths, or quality-related issues such as manufacturing errors or design or labeling defects. For example, in May 1999 we initiated a recall and field correction for our CVX-300 laser unit to correct a narrow gap in the internal protective housing which could possibly have allowed direct line of sight access to the laser beam. The corrective action and the FDA audit of our actions were completed by November 1999. Any future recalls of any of our products could divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation, and could adversely affect our business. The FDA requires the use of adjunctive balloon angioplasty in coronary procedures performed using our products, which increases the cost of performing these procedures. The FDA has required that the label for the CVX-300 laser unit state that adjunctive balloon angioplasty was performed together with laser atherectomy in the coronary procedures we submitted to the FDA for PMA. This means that our laser system cannot be used alone to treat coronary conditions. Adjunctive balloon angioplasty requires the purchase of a balloon catheter in addition to the laser catheter. The requirement that our coronary procedures be performed together with balloon angioplasty increases the aggregate cost of performing these procedures. As a result, third-party payers may attempt to deny or limit reimbursement, including if they determine that a device used in a procedure was experimental, was used for a non-approved indication or was not used in accordance with established pay protocols regarding cost effective treatment methods. Hospitals that have experienced reimbursement problems or expect to experience reimbursement problems may not acquire or may cease using our laser system. Technological change may result in our products becoming obsolete. The medical device market is characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological change. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of our disposable catheters. Technological progress or new developments in our industry could adversely affect sales of our products. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do, are engaged in research and development for the treatment and prevention of peripheral and coronary arterial disease. These include pharmaceutical approaches as well as development of new or improved balloon angioplasty, atherectomy, thrombectomy, stents or other devices. Our products could be rendered obsolete as a result of future innovations in the treatment of cardiovascular disease. In addition, the patents we own and license may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or to give us any competitive advantage. We could also be adversely affected if any of our licensors terminates our licenses to use patented technology. In addition, we have limited patent protection in foreign countries and the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We do not have patents in many foreign countries. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. Third parties may infringe our patents or challenge their validity or enforceability. Our patents could be challenged as invalid or circumvented by competitors. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which our products are marketed. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our products or technologies may infringe. Challenges raised in patent infringement litigation may result in determinations that our patents or licensed patents are invalid, unenforceable or otherwise subject to limitations. In the event of any such determination, third parties may be able to use the discoveries or technologies without paying licensing fees or royalties to us, which could significantly diminish the value of our intellectual property. In addition, enforcing the patents that we hold or license may require significant expenditures regardless of the outcome of such efforts. 24 Table of Contents We and our component suppliers may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain good manufacturing practice regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. Our component suppliers are also required to meet certain standards applicable to their manufacturing processes. We cannot assure you that we or any of our component suppliers is in compliance or that we will be able to maintain compliance with all regulatory requirements. The failure by us or one of our component suppliers to achieve or maintain compliance with these requirements or quality standards may disrupt our ability to supply products sufficient to meet demand until compliance is achieved or, in the case of a component supplier, until a new supplier has been identified and evaluated. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that if we find it necessary to engage new suppliers to satisfy our business requirements, that we will be able to locate new suppliers who are in compliance with regulatory requirements. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the European Union, we are required to maintain certain International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies, including TUV, to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we fail these inspections or fail to meet these regulatory standards, our business could be materially adversely affected. Healthcare cost containment pressures and legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive coverage and reimbursement practices of third-party payers could decrease the demand for our products, the prices that customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures performed using our devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our products are purchased principally by hospitals and stand-alone peripheral intervention practices, which typically bill various third-party payers, including governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement for our products and services from private and governmental third-party payers is critical to our success. The availability of coverage and reimbursement affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from country to country, state to state and plan to plan and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and services. Certain private third-party payers may view some of the procedures using our products as experimental and may not provide coverage. We cannot assure you that third-party payers will cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or that payment rates will be adequate. Further, the adequacy of coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers is also related to the existence of billing codes to describe procedures that are performed using our products. There are currently a number of billing codes that are used by hospitals and physicians to bill for such procedures. We cannot provide assurances that the billing codes currently available will continue to be recognized by third-party payers for use by our customers. After we develop a new product or seek to market our products for new approved indications, we may find limited demand for the product unless adequate coverage and reimbursement is obtained from private and governmental third-party payers. Even with reimbursement approval and coverage by private and government 25 Table of Contents payers, providers submitting reimbursement claims may face delay in payment if there is confusion on the part of providers regarding the appropriate codes to use in seeking reimbursement. Such delays may create an unfavorable impression within the marketplace regarding the level of reimbursement or coverage available for our products. Demand for our current or new products or new approved indications for our existing products may fluctuate over time if federal or state legislative or administrative policy changes affect coverage or reimbursement levels for our products or the services related to our products. In the United States, there have been and we expect there will continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system, some of which could significantly affect our business. For instance, on December 8, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which, among other things, established a new prescription drug benefit and changed reimbursement methodologies for drugs and devices used in hospitals and in the home. Future legislative or policy initiatives directed at increasing the accessibility of healthcare and reducing costs could be introduced on either the federal or state level. In regards to foreign markets, for example, the reimbursement approval process in Japan is taking longer than anticipated due to the complexity of this process. Legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for those procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Such laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and related state anti-kickback laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of, or arranging for or recommending the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal Stark law and self-referral prohibitions under analogous state laws restrict referrals by physicians and, in some instances, other healthcare providers, practitioners and professionals, to entities with which they have indirect or direct financial relationships for furnishing of designated health services. These healthcare fraud and abuse laws are subject to evolving interpretations by various state and federal enforcement and regulatory authorities. Under current interpretations of the federal false claims act and certain similar state laws, some of these laws may also be subject to enforcement in a qui tam lawsuit brought by a private party “whistleblower,” with or without the intervention of the government. If our past or present operations, including our laser system placement programs, clinical research and consulting arrangements with physicians who use our product or our “Cap Free” or other sales or marketing programs, are found to be in violation of these laws and not protected under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor provision to the applicable fraud and abuse laws, we, our officers or our employees may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and other federal healthcare program participation, including the exclusion of our products from use in treatment of Medicare or other federal healthcare program patients. If federal or state investigations or enforcement actions were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals in other countries for our products, we will not be able to market our products in such countries, which could harm our business. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our products, new products or additional indications for our existing products outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require, among other things, additional testing and different clinical trial designs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Some foreign regulatory agencies also must approve the reimbursement policies related to specific products. We have experienced difficulties in the past in obtaining reimbursement approvals for our products in Europe and are 26 Table of Contents currently seeking reimbursement approval for our products in Japan. We do not expect our sales in Japan to increase unless and until reimbursement approval is attained. We cannot assure you that this approval will be obtained or that revenue in Japan will increase if this approval is received. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to market our existing products in any foreign country. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required approvals in any foreign country, we will not be able to sell our products in that country and our ability to generate revenue could be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to the problems that come from having international operations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our revenue from international operations represented 12% of consolidated revenue, of which 9% was generated in Europe, the Middle East and Russia. Changes in overseas political or economic conditions, war or other conflicts, currency exchange rates, foreign laws regulating the approval and sales of medical devices, foreign tax laws or tariffs, other trade regulations or intellectual property protection could adversely affect our ability to market our products outside the United States. Any significant changes in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we will conduct international operations may have a material adverse impact on our business. To the extent we expand our international operations, we expect our sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies to expand, therefore increasing the risk that we will be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We currently do not hedge against foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced consolidated revenue or increased operating expenses. Our European operations may not be successful or may not be able to achieve revenue growth. We use distributors for sales of our products throughout most of Europe. The sales and marketing efforts on our behalf by distributors in Europe could fail to attain long-term success. On January 1, 2006, we commenced the marketing of products directly to our German customers through our European sales and clinical organization, following the expiration of an agreement with our German distributor on December 31, 2005. We cannot assure you, however, that our direct sales effort in Germany will be successful. We have important sole source suppliers and may be unable to replace them if they stop supplying us. We purchase certain components of our CVX-300 laser unit from several sole source suppliers. We do not have guaranteed commitments from these suppliers, as we order products through purchase orders placed with these suppliers from time to time. While we believe that we could obtain replacement components from alternative suppliers, we may be unable to do so. The loss of any of these suppliers could result in a disruption in our production. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors. In addition, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials may take a substantial period of time, as certain of these suppliers must be approved by regulatory authorities. If we are unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture our CVX-300 laser units, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find replacement suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of our CVX-300 laser unit may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time we engage outside parties to perform services related to certain of our clinical studies and trials, and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could result in costs and delays. From time to time we engage consultants and contract research organizations to help design and monitor and analyze the results of certain of our clinical studies and trials. The consultants and contract research organizations we engage interact with clinical investigators to enroll patients in our clinical trials. As a result, we depend on these clinical investigators, consultants and contract research organizations to perform the clinical studies and trials and monitor and analyze data from these studies and trials in accordance with the investigational plan and protocol for the study or trial and in compliance with regulations and standards, 27 Table of Contents commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting results of clinical studies or trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and the trial participants are adequately protected, as required by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. The consultants and contract research organizations are responsible for protecting confidential patient data and complying with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations related to data privacy, including but not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. We may face delays in our regulatory approval process if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion or if we are forced to change service providers. This risk is heightened for our clinical studies and trials conducted outside of the United States, where it may be more difficult to ensure that our studies and trials are conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Any third parties that we hire to help design or monitor and analyze results of our clinical studies and trials may also provide services to our competitors, which could compromise the performance of their obligations to us. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality, completeness or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for other reasons, our clinical studies or trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may otherwise prove to be unsuccessful, and our development costs will increase. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain relationships with these third parties on favorable terms, or at all. If we need to enter into replacement arrangements because a third party is not performing in accordance with our expectations, we may not be able to do so without undue delays or considerable expenditures or at all. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business may be harmed. We have experienced increased unit volume demand and our ability to fulfill customer demand is becoming more difficult. To manage our growth, we must expand our facilities, hire and train additional qualified personnel, scale-up our manufacturing capacity and expand our marketing and distribution capabilities. Our manufacturing and assembly process is complex, and we must scale this entire process to satisfy customer expectations and increased demand. In addition, in January 2006, we announced that we entered into a new lease in December 2006 for a 75,000 square foot building. We plan to consolidate all of our current U.S. operations into the new facility in two phases, which we expect to be completed by the end of 2008. There can be no assurance that this transition will occur smoothly or on the timetable that we have set. If we are unable to transition our manufacturing operations to our new facility as planned, we may experience delays or disruptions in our ability to manufacture and ship product as requested by our customers. We also expect to continue to expand the number of sales and marketing personnel as we expand our business. The number of our full-time employees increased from 208 as of December 31, 2005 to 311 as of December 31, 2006. We cannot be certain that our personnel, systems and procedures will be adequate to support our future operations. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business will suffer. Product liability and other claims against us may reduce demand for our products or result in substantial damages. Our business exposes us to potential liability for risks that may arise from the clinical testing of our product candidates, the use of our products by physicians and the manufacture and sale of any approved products. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us, including frivolous lawsuits, if one of our products causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. We maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $5 million per occurrence with an annual aggregate maximum of $5 million. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may be inadequate, and insurance coverage with acceptable terms could be unavailable in the future. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain clinical trial insurance. Any product liability claim or series of claims or class actions brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • liabilities that substantially exceed our insurance levels, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; • an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to renew or obtain product liability insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or patients; 28 Table of Contents • damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • litigation costs; and • the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. Claims may be made by consumers, healthcare providers or others selling our products. We may be subject to claims against us even if an alleged injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of physicians, nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedures and related processes relating to our products. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent in using our products, the therapeutic effect of our products may be diminished or the patient may suffer injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury resulting from the activities of our suppliers may serve as a basis for a claim against us. We do not promote our products for off-label or otherwise unapproved uses. However, we cannot prevent a physician from using our products for any off-label applications. If injury to a patient results from such an inappropriate use, we may become involved in a product liability suit, which will likely be expensive to defend. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and liability. There may be patents and patent applications owned by others relating to laser and fiber-optic technologies, which, if determined to be valid and enforceable, may be infringed by us. Holders of certain patents, including holders of patents involving the use of lasers in the body, may contact us and request that we enter into license agreements for the underlying technology and pay them royalties, which could be substantial. For example, we are currently involved in litigation regarding a patent issued to Dr. Peter Rentrop for a certain catheter with a diameter of less than 0.9 mm and a jury has returned an unfavorable verdict in the case, which is ongoing. See Item 3 — Legal Proceedings for more detail regarding this matter. We cannot guarantee that another patent holder will not file a lawsuit against us and prevail. If we decide that we need to obtain a license to use any intellectual property, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on favorable terms or at all or we may be required to make substantial royalty or other payments to use this intellectual property. Litigation concerning patents and proprietary rights is time-consuming, expensive, unpredictable and could divert the attention of our management from our business operations. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. An unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding or patent infringement suit could require us to pay substantial damages, cease using the technology or to license rights, potentially at a substantial cost, from prevailing third parties. There is no guarantee that any prevailing party would offer us a license or that we could acquire any license made available to us on commercially acceptable terms. Even if we are able to obtain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, those rights may be non-exclusive and therefore our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. To the extent we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property of others, we may not be able to develop or otherwise obtain alternative technology. If we need to redesign our products to avoid third party patents, we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional studies or submitting technical, manufacturing or other information related to any redesigned product and, ultimately, in obtaining regulatory approval. Further, any such redesigns may result in less effective and/or less commercially desirable products. 29 Table of Contents If we are not able to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation, we may suffer competitive harm. In addition to patented intellectual property, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, confidential information and know-how to protect our technology and maintain our competitive position, particularly when we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information nor result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information that have been licensed to us or that we own, and in such case, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using trade secrets that have been licensed to us or that we own is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Future litigation proceedings may materially adversely affect our business. From time to time we are a defendant or plaintiff in various legal actions. Litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim that is successfully asserted against us may cause us to pay substantial damages or result in injunctions against future product sales. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Environmental and health safety laws may result in liabilities, expenses and restrictions on our operations. Federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding environmental protection, hazardous substances and human health and safety may adversely affect our business. The use of hazardous substances in our operations exposes us to the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. If our or our suppliers’ operations result in the contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, we could be liable for damages and fines, and any liability could significantly exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Although we maintain insurance for certain environmental risks, subject to substantial deductibles, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain this insurance in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. Future changes to environmental and health and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expenses or restrict our operations. We depend on attracting and retaining key management, clinical, scientific and sales and marketing personnel, and the loss of these personnel could impair the development and sales of our products. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical, scientific and sales and marketing personnel. We do not have employment agreements with any of our employees. Their employment with us is “at will,” and each employee can terminate his or her agreement with us at any time and choose to work for our competitors. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management. The competition for qualified personnel in the medical device industry is intense. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our development activities and drive sales of our products. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel. 30 Table of Contents The initial cost of purchasing our laser unit is not reimbursed by third-party payers, which may hurt sales of both our laser units and our disposable products. Our laser-based procedures require that the healthcare provider use one of our CVX-300 laser units. We sell our CVX-300 laser units primarily to hospitals, which then bill third-party payers, such as government programs and private insurance plans, for the services the hospitals provide to individual patients using the CVX-300 laser unit. However, hospitals and other healthcare providers are not reimbursed for the substantial initial cost of purchasing the laser unit and the amount reimbursed to a hospital for procedures involving our products may not be adequate to allow them to recoup their initial investment in our laser unit. By contrast, many competing products and procedures, like balloon angioplasty do not require the up-front investment in the form of a capital equipment purchase, lease, or rental. As a result, the initial cost of purchasing our laser unit may prevent hospitals and other healthcare providers from using our disposable devices, which in turn would adversely affect our revenue from the sale and rental of laser units. Moreover, because our catheters and other disposable products generally can be used only in conjunction with our laser unit, any limitation of the acquisition of our laser units by hospitals and other healthcare providers will adversely affect sales of our disposable products. If we make acquisitions, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to the present or future direction of our business. If we engage in such acquisitions, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, financials, operations, products or technologies. Acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities, and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire companies, products or technologies, it may divert resources otherwise available for other purposes. If we use our common stock to acquire companies, products or technologies, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock, similar to other medical device companies, has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The following factors may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results and the operating results of competitors; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • results of clinical trials or studies by us or our competitors; • governmental regulation; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, including assertions that our intellectual property infringes the rights of others; • public concern regarding the safety of products developed by us or others; • the initiation or cessation in coverage of our common stock, or changes in estimates or recommendations concerning us or our common stock, by securities analysts; • changes in accounting principles; • past or future management changes; • litigation; • changes in general market and economic conditions; and • the possibility of our financing future operations through additional issuances of equity securities, which may result in dilution to existing stockholders. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in 31 Table of Contents substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business and could require us to make substantial payments to settle those proceeding or satisfy any judgments that may be reached against us. Protections against unsolicited takeovers in our charter and bylaws may reduce or eliminate our stockholders’ ability to resell their shares at a premium over market price. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions relating to issuance of preferred stock, special meetings of stockholders and advance notification procedures for stockholder proposals that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an unsolicited change in the control of Spectranetics. Our board of directors is elected for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing all directors at each annual meeting and may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which in general and subject to exceptions, prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” (as defined in Section 203) with an “interested stockholder” (as defined in Section 203) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company even at a price our stockholders may find attractive. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 