ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsRisks related to our business and industryWe may be unable to compete successfully with larger companies in our highly competitive industry.The medical device industry is highly competitive. Our primary competitors are manufacturers of products used in competing therapies within the peripheral and coronary atherectomy and lead management markets, such as:•atherectomy and thrombectomy, using mechanical methods to remove arterial blockages (peripheral and coronary);•balloon angioplasty and stents (peripheral);•specialty balloon angioplasty, such as cutting balloons and drug-eluting balloons;•bypass surgery (peripheral and coronary);•amputation (peripheral); and•mechanical lead removal tools (lead management).Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, and technical resources than we do. Larger competitors have substantially larger sales and marketing operations than we do. This allows those competitors to spend more time with potential customers and to focus on a larger number of potential customers, which gives them a significant advantage over our sales and marketing team and our international distributors in making sales. We have experienced periods of higher sales personnel turnover, particularly in our vascular intervention sales organization. Sales personnel turnover could be an issue in the future. 19Table of ContentsLarger competitors also have broader product lines, which enables them to offer customers bundled purchase contracts and quantity discounts, and more experience than we have in research and development, marketing, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals, and marketing approved products. Our competitors may discover technologies and techniques, or enter into partnerships and collaborations, to develop competing products that are more effective or less costly than the products we develop. This may render our technology or products obsolete or noncompetitive. Academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private research organizations may seek patent protection regarding potentially competitive products or technologies and may establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. Our competitors may be better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture, market, and sell competing products. Competition will probably intensify.We believe that the primary competitive factors in the interventional coronary and peripheral markets include:•the ability to treat a variety of lesions safely and effectively as demonstrated by credible clinical data;•ease of use;•the impact of managed care practices, related reimbursement to the healthcare provider, and procedure costs;•size and effectiveness of sales forces; and•research and development capabilities.Our ability to increase our revenue depends on our ability to successfully penetrate our target markets and develop new products for those markets.Our ability to increase our revenue depends largely on our ability to increase sales in the vascular intervention market and in the lead management market. New products will also need to be developed and approved by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies to sustain revenue growth in our markets. Additional clinical data and new products to treat coronary artery disease may be necessary to grow revenue within the coronary market, and we are not investing in these areas.Our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance.Even if we obtain FDA approval or clearance of our products, or new indications for our products, market acceptance in the healthcare community, including physicians, patients, and third‑party payers, of our products depends on many factors, including:•our ability to provide incremental clinical and economic data that shows the safety and clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness of, and patient benefits from, laser atherectomy, and pacemaker and ICD lead removal;•the availability of alternative treatments;•whether our products are included on insurance company formularies;•the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to adopt new technologies;•the convenience and ease of use of our products relative to existing treatment methods; 20Table of Contents•the pricing and reimbursement of our products relative to existing treatment methods; and•marketing and distribution support for our products.Even if we obtain all necessary FDA approvals and clearances, any of our products may fail to achieve market acceptance. If we do not educate physicians about PAD and cardiac device infection and the existence of our products, these products may not gain market acceptance, as many physicians do not routinely screen for PAD while screening for coronary artery disease and are not aware of the need to remove and replace coronary leads when treating cardiac device infections. If our products achieve market acceptance, they may not maintain that market acceptance over time if competing products or technologies are introduced that are received more favorably or are more cost effective. Our Lead Management products are used to remove advisory leads, which are leads for which a physician advisory has been issued by the lead’s manufacturer. When the advisory leads are extracted or become inactive, the market for our Lead Management products will be reduced. Failure to achieve or maintain market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not achieve our projected development and commercialization goals, our business may be harmed.For planning, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory, and other product development and commercialization goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. We base these milestones on a variety of assumptions, which are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. There is a risk we will not achieve these milestones on a timely basis or at all. If we cannot complete subject enrollments required by the FDA for our EXCITE ISR study in a timely manner, the commercialization of our products for an ISR indication could be delayed. Even if we achieve these milestones, the actual timing of the achievement of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates—often for reasons beyond our control—depending on numerous factors, including:•the rate of progress, costs and results of our clinical trials and research and development activities;•our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria;•the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating physicians and clinical institutions;•adverse reactions reported during clinical trials or commercialization;•the receipt of marketing approvals and clearances by our competitors and by us from the FDA and other regulatory agencies;•other actions by regulators, including actions related to a class of products; and•actions of our development partners in supporting product development programs.If we do not meet these milestones for our products or if we are delayed in achieving these milestones, the development and commercialization of new products, modifications of existing products or sales of existing products for new approved indications may be prevented or delayed, which could damage our reputation or materially adversely affect our business. 21Table of ContentsWe have a history of losses and may not maintain profitability.We incurred net losses from our inception in 1984 until 2000, and again in 2002, 2006, from 2008 to 2010, and in 2013. At December 31, 2013, we had accumulated $94.2 million in net losses since inception. We may not be profitable in the future.If we make acquisitions, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business.We may acquire companies, products, or technologies. If we engage in such acquisitions, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products, or technologies. Acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities, and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire companies, products, or technologies, it may divert resources otherwise available for other purposes or increase our debt. If we use our common stock to acquire companies, products, or technologies, we may experience a change of control or our stockholders may experience substantial dilution or both.If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be unable to make desirable acquisitions.We may require additional funds to make acquisitions of desirable companies, products, or technologies. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The inability to obtain additional capital may restrict our ability to grow and may reduce our ability to make desirable acquisitions. Any equity or convertible debt financing may involve substantial dilution to our existing stockholders.If we do not manage our growth or control costs related to growth, our results of operations will suffer.We intend to grow our business by expanding our customer base, sales force, and product offerings, including through acquisitions or other business combinations. Growth could place significant strain on our management, employees, operations, operating and financial systems, and other resources. To accommodate significant growth, we could be required to open additional facilities, expand, and improve our information systems and procedures and hire, train, motivate and manage a growing workforce, all of which would increase our costs. Our systems, facilities, procedures, and personnel may not be adequate to support our future operations. Further, we may not maintain or accelerate our current growth, manage our expanding operations, or achieve planned growth on a timely and profitable basis.Litigation and other legal proceedings may adversely affect our business.From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property matters, product liability claims, employee claims, tort or contract claims, federal regulatory investigations, security class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits, and other legal proceedings or investigations, which could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business and financial condition and divert the attention of our management from the operation of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and can result in excessive or unanticipated verdicts and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. We could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or for agreements to change the way we operate our business, or both. There may be an increase in the scope of these matters or there may be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings, or investigations in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on us. Adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers’ confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations.We must indemnify officers and directors, including, in certain circumstances, former employees, against all losses, including expenses, incurred by them in legal proceedings and to advance their reasonable legal defense 22Table of Contentsexpenses, unless certain conditions apply. Insurance for claims of this nature does not apply in all such circumstances, may be denied or may not be adequate to cover all legal or other costs related to the proceeding. A prolonged uninsured expense and indemnification obligation could have a material adverse impact on us. From 2009 through 2013, we incurred more than $6 million in indemnification costs not covered by insurance for former employees charged in connection with a previously disclosed federal investigation.Healthcare reform initiatives and other administrative and legislative proposals may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in our key markets.The PPACA makes significant changes to the way healthcare is financed by both federal and state governments and private insurers, and directly impacts the medical device and pharmaceutical industries. The PPACA includes, with limited exceptions, a deductible excise tax of 2.3% on sales of products by entities, including us, that manufacture or import certain medical devices offered for sale in the United States, effective January 1, 2013. Revenue from many of our products is subject to that excise tax. It is unclear whether we can offset the cost of the tax through higher sales volumes resulting from the expansion of health insurance coverage.Congress has proposed and adopted other legislative changes regarding healthcare since it enacted the PPACA. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, could not reach required goals, triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which delayed for another two months the budget cuts mandated by these sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011. On March 1, 2013, the President signed an executive order implementing sequestration, and on April 1, 2013, the 2% Medicare payment reductions went into effect. The ATRA also reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may cause additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and our financial operations.Various healthcare reform proposals also have emerged at the state level. We expect that the PPACA, and other federal and state healthcare initiatives that may be adopted, could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, and could have a material adverse effect on our industry and our results of operations.Regulatory compliance is expensive and complex, and approvals can often be denied or significantly delayed.The FDA and similar state and foreign agencies regulate our products as medical devices. Complying with these regulations is costly, time consuming, and complex. FDA regulations and regulations of similar state and foreign agencies are wide-ranging and include oversight of:•product design, development, manufacture, and testing;•product safety and efficacy;•product labeling;•product storage and shipping;•record keeping; 23Table of Contents•pre-market clearance or approval;•advertising and promotion;•product sales and distribution; and•post-market surveillance and reporting of deaths or serious injuries.All of our potential products and improvements of our current products are subject to extensive regulation and will likely require clearance or approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies prior to commercial sale and distribution. Under FDA regulations, unless exempt, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)‑cleared products. Sometimes, a 510(k) clearance must be supported by preclinical and clinical data. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy, and uncertain than the 510(k) process, and must be supported by valid scientific evidence, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. Therefore, to obtain regulatory clearance or approvals, we typically must, among other requirements, provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with preclinical and clinical data that demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and such other authorities our products satisfy the criteria for clearance or approval. Preclinical testing and clinical trials must comply with the regulations of the FDA and other government authorities in the United States and similar agencies in other countries.We may be required to obtain PMAs, PMA supplements, or additional 510(k) premarket clearances to market modifications to our existing products. The FDA requires device manufacturers to make and document a determination of whether a modification requires an approval, supplement, or clearance; however, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions not to seek approvals, supplements, or clearances for particular device modifications. If the FDA requires us to obtain PMAs, PMA supplements or pre-market clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we will likely be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or perhaps also to recall such modified device until we obtain FDA clearance or approval and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. There can be no assurance that the FDA will clear or approve such submissions in a timely manner, if at all.International regulatory approval processes may take longer than the FDA approval process. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, we may not receive regulatory approvals or may be subject to fines, suspensions, or revocations of approvals, seizures, or recalls of products, operating restrictions, criminal prosecutions and other penalties. We may be unable to obtain future regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all, especially if existing regulations are changed or new regulations are adopted. For example, the FDA clearance process for the use of excimer laser technology in clearing blocked arteries in the leg took longer than we anticipated due to requests for additional clinical data and changes in regulatory requirements. A failure or delay in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals would materially adversely affect our business.If our clinical trials are unsuccessful or significantly delayed, or if we do not complete our clinical trials, our business may be harmed.Clinical development is a long, expensive, and uncertain process and is subject to delays and to the risk that products may ultimately prove ineffective in treating the indications for which they are designed. Completion of the clinical trials usually takes several years or more. We cannot assure you we will successfully complete clinical testing of our products within the period we have planned, or at all. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and positive results in early trials may not indicate success in later trials. Several companies in the medical device industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after receiving promising results in earlier trials. 24Table of ContentsWe may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or because of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval for new products, modification of existing products, or new approved indications for existing products including:•delays in enlisting an adequate number of subjects in clinical trials when competing with other companies;•enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or we may experience high drop-out rates of subjects from our clinical trials, resulting in significant delays;•the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find the product is not sufficiently safe for investigational use in humans;•officials at the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than we do;•there may be delays or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA or other regulatory authorities;•there may be delays in obtaining institutional review board approvals or government approvals to conduct clinical trials at prospective sites;•the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or facilities unsatisfactory;•the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations that may negatively affect or delay our ability to bring a product to market or receive approvals or clearances to treat new indications;•our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing or to abandon programs;•we may have trouble in managing multiple clinical sites;•trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities;•we may experience delays in agreeing on acceptable terms with third party research organizations and trial sites that will conduct the clinical trials; and•we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials because the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks.Failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials will delay and may prevent our product development and regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position.From time to time, we engage outside parties to perform services related to certain of our clinical studies and trials, and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could cause costs and delays.From time to time, we engage consultants and contract research organizations to help design, monitor, and analyze the results of certain of our clinical studies and trials. The consultants and contract research organizations we engage interact with clinical investigators to enroll patients in our clinical trials. We depend on these consultants, 25Table of Contentscontract research organizations and clinical investigators to perform the clinical studies and trials and monitor and analyze data from these studies and trials under the investigational plan and protocol for the study or trial and in compliance with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting results of clinical studies or trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and the trial participants are adequately protected, as required by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. The consultants and contract research organizations are responsible for protecting confidential patient data and complying with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations related to data privacy, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. We may face delays in our regulatory approval process if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion or if we must change service providers. This risk is greater for our clinical studies and trials conducted outside of the United States, where it may be more difficult to ensure our studies and trials are conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Any third parties we hire to design or monitor and analyze results of our clinical studies and trials may also provide services to our competitors, which could compromise the performance of their obligations to us. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality, completeness or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for other reasons, our clinical studies or trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may otherwise prove to be unsuccessful, and our development costs will increase. We may not establish or maintain relationships with these third parties on favorable terms, or at all. If we need to enter into replacement arrangements because a third party is not performing in accordance with our expectations, we may not do so without undue delays or considerable expenditures or at all.Our regulatory compliance program cannot guarantee we comply with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations.The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing, import, export, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the United States and in foreign countries, including the new National Physician Payment Transparency Program in the U.S., which requires collection of information about payments to physicians beginning in 2013 and reporting such information in 2014. Congress and certain governmental entities, such as the FDA and Department of Justice, have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. Although we have a regulatory compliance program, our employees, our consultants or our contractors may not comply with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state laws and regulations or all potentially applicable foreign laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, failing to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal or recall of our products from the market, significant fines, penalties and/or damages, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation.Compliance with the terms and conditions of our Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services requires significant resources and management time and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties or, under certain circumstances, excluded from government healthcare programs, which would materially adversely affect our business.In December 2009, as part of the settlement of a federal investigation of our company, we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement, or CIA, with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The CIA provides criteria for establishing and maintaining compliance with various federal laws and regulations governing our clinical investigation related functions, reporting related functions and certain of our promotional and product services related functions. It applies to all of our U.S. subsidiaries and employees and certain of our employees based outside the U.S. Under the CIA, we must keep in place our current compliance program, provide specified training to employees, and retain an independent review organization to perform reviews to assist us in assessing and evaluating our various functions discussed above.We expect maintaining the broad array of processes, policies, and procedures necessary to comply with the CIA to continue to require a significant portion of management’s attention and the application of significant 26Table of Contentsresources. Failure to meet the CIA obligations could have serious consequences for us including stipulated monetary penalties for each noncompliance. Material breaches of the CIA could cause us to be excluded from participating in federal healthcare programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Our products may be subject to recalls after receiving FDA or foreign approval or clearance, which would divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation, and could adversely affect our business.We are subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA or similar foreign governmental authorities if our products cause or contribute to death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction occurred. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of our products because of any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary product recall by us could occur because of component failures, device malfunctions, or other adverse events, such as serious injuries or deaths, or quality‑related issues such as manufacturing errors or design or labeling defects. We have conducted voluntary recalls in the past and may be required to do so in the future. Any recalls of our products could divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation, and could adversely affect our business.The continuing development of many of our products depends upon our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians.The research, development, marketing, and sale of many of our new and improved products depend upon our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing, and sale of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors and public speakers. If we cannot maintain our strong working relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition or cash flows. At the same time, the medical device industry’s relationship with physicians is under increasing scrutiny by the Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (OIG), and the Department of Justice (DOJ). Our failure to comply with requirements governing the industry’s relationships with physicians, or an investigation into our compliance by the OIG or DOJ, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not effectively be able to protect our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.The medical device market in which we primarily participate is largely technology driven. Physicians have historically moved quickly to new products and new technologies. As a result, intellectual property rights, particularly patents and trade secrets, play a significant role in product development and differentiation. However, intellectual property litigation is inherently complex and unpredictable and appellate courts can overturn lower court patent decisions. We hold patents and licenses to use patented technology, and have numerous pending patent applications. Our patents cover numerous inventions, including general features of the laser system, features of our catheters and other technologies. Our competitors may seek to produce products that include technologies that are not subject to patent protection, and this may negatively affect our business.The patents we own and license may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or to give us any competitive advantage. Our patents could be challenged as invalid, unenforceable, or circumvented by competitors. Issuing a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Third parties own numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications in the fields in which we manufacture and sell our products. 27Table of ContentsBecause patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents our products or technologies may infringe. Challenges raised in patent infringement litigation may cause determinations our patents or licensed patents are invalid, unenforceable, or otherwise subject to limitations. In such events, third parties may use the discoveries or technologies without paying damages, licensing fees or royalties to us, which could significantly diminish the value of our intellectual property. We could also be adversely affected if our licensors terminate our licenses to use patented technology. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business.We may incur substantial costs because of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, which could cause substantial costs and liability.There may be patents and patent applications owned by others relating to laser and fiber‑optic or other technologies, which, if determined to be valid and enforceable, may be infringed by us. Holders of certain patents, including holders of patents involving the use of lasers in the body, may contact us and request we enter into license agreements for the underlying technology and pay them royalties, which could be substantial. We cannot guarantee that other patent holders will not sue us and prevail. If we need to obtain a license to use any intellectual property, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on favorable terms or at all or we may be required to make substantial royalty or other payments to use this intellectual property. Litigation concerning patents and proprietary rights is time-consuming, expensive, and unpredictable and could divert the attention of our management from our business operations. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. An unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding or patent infringement suit could require us to pay substantial damages, cease using the technology or to license rights, potentially at a substantial cost, from prevailing third parties. There is no guarantee that any prevailing party would offer us a license or that we could acquire any license on commercially acceptable terms. Even if we can obtain rights to a third-party’s patented intellectual property, those rights may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may have to cease some of our business operations because of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. To the extent we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property of others, we may not develop or otherwise obtain alternative technology. If we need to redesign our products to avoid third party patents, we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional studies or submitting technical, manufacturing or other information related to any redesigned product and, ultimately, in obtaining regulatory approval. Further, any such redesigns may cause less effective or less commercially desirable products or both.If we cannot protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary technology, we may suffer competitive harm.Besides patented intellectual property, we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary technology, confidential information, and know-how to protect our technology and maintain our competitive position, particularly when patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology are difficult to protect. To protect proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and others. These agreements may not prevent disclosure of confidential information nor result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy if unauthorized disclosure of confidential information occurs or other breaches of the agreements. Others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information licensed to us or that we own, and in such case, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using trade secrets licensed to us or that we own is difficult, expensive, and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or unpatented proprietary technology. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 28Table of ContentsWe have important sole source suppliers and may be unable to replace them if they stop supplying us.We purchase certain components of our CVX-300 laser system and select disposable products from several sole source suppliers. We do not have guaranteed commitments from these suppliers, as we order products through purchase orders placed with these suppliers from time to time. While we believe that we could obtain replacement components from alternative suppliers, we may be unable to do so. Losing any of these suppliers could cause a disruption in our production. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction, and environmental factors. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials may take significant time, as certain of these suppliers must be approved by regulatory authorities. If we cannot secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture our CVX-300 laser systems and disposable products, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find replacement suppliers at an acceptable cost, then manufacturing our CVX-300 laser system and disposable products may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business.Our net operating loss carryovers may be limited.We have net operating loss carryovers, or NOLs, that we may use to offset against taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, may limit the NOLs we may use in any year for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the event of certain changes in ownership of our company. Any limitation on using NOLs could (depending on the extent of such limitation and the NOLs previously used) result in our retaining less cash after payment of U.S. federal income taxes during any year in which we have taxable income (rather than losses) than we would be entitled to retain if such NOLs were available as an offset against such income for U.S. federal income tax reporting purposes.Technological change may cause our products to become obsolete.The medical device market is characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological change. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of our disposable catheters. Technological progress or new developments in our industry could adversely affect sales of our products. Our products could be rendered obsolete because of future innovations in the treatment of cardiovascular disease. We and our component suppliers may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.As a device manufacturer, we must register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s QSR requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain good manufacturing practice regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. Our component suppliers are also required to meet certain standards applicable to their manufacturing processes.We cannot assure you that we or our component suppliers comply or can continue to comply with all regulatory requirements. The failure by us or one of our component suppliers to achieve or maintain compliance with these requirements or quality standards may disrupt our ability to supply products sufficient to meet demand until compliance is achieved or, with a component supplier, until a new supplier has been identified and evaluated. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could cause sanctions to be imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, which could harm our business. We cannot assure you that if we need to engage new 29Table of Contentssuppliers to satisfy our business requirements, we can locate new suppliers in compliance with regulatory requirements. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business.In the European Union, we must maintain certain International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, certifications to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies, including the British Standards Institution, or BSi, to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we fail these inspections or fail to meet these regulatory standards, our business could be materially adversely affected.Healthcare cost containment pressures and legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive coverage and reimbursement practices of third‑party payers could decrease the demand for our products, the prices that customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures performed using our devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business.Our products are purchased principally by hospitals and stand‑alone peripheral intervention practices, which typically bill various third‑party payers, including governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans, and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement for our products and services from government and private third‑party payers is critical to our success. The availability of coverage and reimbursement affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay.Reimbursement varies from country to country, state to state and plan to plan and can significantly influence the acceptance of new products and services. Certain private third‑party payers may view some procedures using our products as experimental and may not provide coverage. Third‑party payers may not cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or payment rates may not be adequate, or both. Further, the adequacy of coverage and reimbursement by third‑party payers is also related to billing codes to describe procedures performed using our products. Hospitals and physicians use several billing codes to bill for such procedures. Third-party payers may not continue to recognize the billing codes available for use by our customers.Reimbursement rates are unpredictable, and we cannot project how our business may be affected by future legislative and regulatory developments. Future legislation or regulation, or changing payment methodologies, may have a material adverse effect on our business, and reimbursement may not be adequate for all customers. For example, in July 2013, CMS proposed reimbursement changes that would have decreased reimbursement for procedures in an office-based facility. Although they ultimately chose not to implement those changes in 2013, we cannot assure you that they will not take similar adverse action in future periods.After we develop new products or seek to market our products for new approved or cleared indications, we may find limited demand for the product unless government and private third-party payers provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. Even with reimbursement approval and coverage by government and private payers, providers submitting reimbursement claims may face delay in payment if there is confusion by providers regarding the appropriate codes to use in seeking reimbursement. Such delays may create an unfavorable impression within the marketplace regarding the level of reimbursement or coverage available for our products.Demand for our products or new approved indications for our existing products may fluctuate over time if federal or state legislative or administrative policy changes affect coverage or reimbursement levels for our products or the services related to our products. In the United States, there have been and we expect there will continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system, some of which could significantly affect our business. Legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for those procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. 30Table of ContentsWe may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we cannot fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties.Various broad federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws may directly or indirectly affect our operations. Such laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and related state anti-kickback laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of, or arranging for or recommending the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal Stark law and self-referral prohibitions under analogous state laws restrict referrals by physicians and, sometimes, other healthcare providers, practitioners and professionals, to entities with which they have indirect or direct financial relationships for furnishing of designated health services. These healthcare fraud and abuse laws are subject to evolving interpretations by various federal and state enforcement and regulatory authorities. Under current interpretations of the Federal False Claims Act and certain similar state laws, some of these laws also may be subject to enforcement in a qui tam lawsuit brought by a private party “whistleblower,” with or without the intervention of the government.If our operations, including our laser system placement and disposable products sales and marketing programs, clinical research and consulting arrangements with physicians, are found to violate these laws and are not protected under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor provision, we, our officers or our employees may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and other federal healthcare program participation, including excluding our products from use in treatment of Medicare or other federal healthcare program patients. If federal or state investigations or enforcement actions occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed.There has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians. The PPACA imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. Device and drug manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in significant civil monetary penalties. Manufacturers had to begin data collection on August 1, 2013 and report such data annually to the federal government by March 31, 2014, and by the 90th day following each calendar year. Some states, including California, Massachusetts, and Vermont, have enacted statutes with various requirements, such as implementation of compliance programs, and the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more requirements. If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals in other countries for our products, we cannot market our products in those countries, which could harm our business.The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our products, new products, or additional indications for our existing products outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require additional testing and different clinical trial designs. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Some foreign regulatory agencies also must approve the reimbursement policies related to specific products. We have had trouble in the past in obtaining reimbursement approvals for our products in Europe and are seeking regulatory and reimbursement approval for certain of our products in Japan and other countries. We cannot assure you we will receive this approval or that revenue in Japan and other countries will increase if we receive it. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively influence 31Table of Contentsthe regulatory process in others. We may not file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to market our existing products in any foreign country. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required approvals in any foreign country, we cannot sell our products in that country and our ability to generate revenue could be materially adversely affected.There are risks that come from having international operations.For the year ended December 31, 2013, our revenue from international operations represented 18% of consolidated revenue, of which 13% of consolidated revenue was generated in Europe, the Middle East and Russia. Changes in overseas political or economic conditions, war or other conflicts, currency exchange rates, foreign laws regulating the approval and sales of medical devices, foreign tax laws or tariffs, other trade regulations or intellectual property protection could adversely affect our ability to market our products outside the United States. Our international operations subject us to the extraterritorial effects of U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any significant changes in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we will conduct international operations may have a material adverse impact on our business. To the extent we expand our international operations, we expect our sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies to expand, therefore increasing the risk fluctuations in currency exchange rates will adversely affect us. We do not hedge against foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced consolidated revenue or increased operating expenses.We use both a direct sales organization and distributors for sales of our products throughout most of Europe, the Middle East, the Pacific Rim, and Latin America. The international sales and marketing efforts could fail to attain long-term success.If our manufacturing operations are interrupted, our results may be adversely affected.Our ability to manufacture our products may be adversely affected by factors such as a failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors or damage to our facility. If an interruption in manufacturing occurs, we may be unable to quickly move to alternate means of producing affected products or to meet customer demand. If the interruption results from a failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to needs for regulatory approvals. We may suffer loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Product liability and other claims against us may reduce demand for our products or result in substantial damages.Our business exposes us to potential liability for risks that may arise from the clinical testing of our unapproved or cleared new products, the clinical testing of expanded indications for existing products, the use of our products by physicians and the manufacture and sale of any approved products. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us, including frivolous lawsuits, if one of our products causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. We maintain product liability insurance for $20 million per occurrence with an annual aggregate maximum of $20 million. We cannot assure, however, that product liability claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance coverage limits will continue to be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our insurers may also claim that certain claims are not within the scope of our product liability insurance. A product liability claim, recall, or other claim regarding uninsured liabilities or for amounts over insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any product liability claim or series of claims or class actions brought against us, with or without merit, could result in:•liabilities that substantially exceed our insurance levels, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; 32Table of Contents•an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to renew or obtain product liability insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all;•withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or subjects;•damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products;•regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications;•litigation costs; and•diversion of management’s attention from managing our business.Patients treated with our products often are seriously ill or have pacemaker or ICD leads embedded and surrounded by scar tissue within their chest. Patients treated with our products may suffer from severe infection, peripheral artery disease, coronary artery disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and other problematic conditions. During procedures or the clinical follow-up subsequent to procedures involving the use of our products, serious adverse events may occur and some patients may die. Serious adverse events or patient deaths involving the use of our products may subject us to product liability litigation, product recalls or limit our ability to grow our revenue, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.Consumers, healthcare providers or others selling our products may make claims. We may be subject to claims against us even if an alleged injury is due to the actions of others. We rely on the expertise of physicians, nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedures and related processes relating to our products. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent in using our products, the therapeutic effect of our products may be diminished or the patient may suffer injury or death, which may subject us to liability. An injury or death resulting from the activities of our suppliers may serve as a basis for a claim against us. We maintain policies and procedures and require training designed to educate our employees that off-label promotion is illegal. However, we cannot prevent a physician from using our products for any off-label applications. If injury to a patient results from such use, we may become involved in a product liability suit, which may be expensive to defend. Even if we do not become involved in a suit, quality or safety issues could cause reputational harm, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of devices, civil or criminal sanctions, or withdrawal of existing approvals.Although there is federal preemption for medical devices approved by the FDA under a pre-market approval application that in some situations provides a shield against state tort product liability claims, Supreme Court decisions or federal legislation could reverse the exemption. If this preemption is removed, product liability claims may increase. Federal preemption for medical devices cleared through the 510(k) process is limited, if it exists at all.Environmental and health safety laws may result in liabilities, expenses, and restrictions on our operations.Federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding environmental protection, hazardous substances and human health and safety may adversely affect our business. Using hazardous substances in our operations exposes us to the risk of accidental injury, contamination or other liability from the use, storage, importation, handling, or disposal of hazardous materials. If our or our suppliers’ operations result in the contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, we could be liable for damages and fines, and any liability could significantly exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We maintain insurance for certain environmental risks, subject to substantial deductibles; however, we cannot assure you we can continue to maintain this insurance in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. Future changes to environmental and health and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expenses or restrict our operations. 33Table of ContentsWe depend on attracting, retaining, and developing key management, clinical, scientific, and sales and marketing personnel, and losing these personnel could impair the development and sales of our products.Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain, develop, and motivate highly qualified management, clinical, scientific, and sales and marketing personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our employees, other than our chief executive officer. His or her employment is “at will,” and each employee can terminate his or her employment with us at any time. As a condition of employment, our employees sign a confidentiality and trade secrets agreement that precludes them, upon termination of their employment, from disclosing any proprietary information, recruiting our employees or working for a competitor. We also have agreements with several of our officers that provide for the payment of either one year’s salary plus bonus or six months’ salary plus bonus if the officer’s employment ends in certain circumstances. The agreements also prohibit the officer from competing with us and soliciting our employees and customers if termination of employment occurs. The enforceability of these agreements depends on the circumstances at the time of separation, and the agreements may be difficult to enforce. We do not carry key person insurance covering members of senior management. The competition for qualified personnel in the medical device industry is intense. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our development activities and drive sales of our products. We may not attract, retain, and develop quality personnel on acceptable terms due to the competition for such personnel.Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.Many healthcare industry companies, including healthcare systems, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. If we reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash flows would suffer.An interruption in or breach of security of our information or manufacturing systems, including the occurrence of a cyber incident or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, may cause a loss of business or damage to our reputation.We rely on communications, information, and manufacturing systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or cyber incident of these systems could cause failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management or product manufacturing. A cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to information systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or cyber incidents could cause a loss of customer business or reputation and have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.A U.S. and global economic downturn could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or liquidity.We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. The European sovereign debt crisis has increased concerns about global economic recovery. Over the past several years, the credit and capital markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. The strength of the United States and global economy is uncertain, and the United States may experience slowed growth or another recession. Turbulence in the financial markets and general economic uncertainties may make it more difficult and more expensive for hospitals and health systems to obtain credit, which would contribute to pressures on our operating margin, resulting from rising supply costs, reduced investment income and philanthropic giving, increased interest expense, reimbursement pressure, reduced elective healthcare spending and uncompensated care. In such circumstances, we expect many of our customers 34Table of Contentswould continue to scrutinize costs, trim budgets, and look for opportunities to further reduce or slow capital spending.The potential decline in federal and state revenues that may result from such conditions may create additional pressures to contain or reduce reimbursements for our products from Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored programs. Increasing job losses or slow improvement in the unemployment rate in the U.S. has and may continue to result in a smaller percentage of patients being covered by an employer group health plan and a larger percentage being covered by lower paying Medicare, Medicaid, and health plans offered through PPACA exchanges.Further, a strengthening of the United States dollar or other economic event may adversely affect the results of our international operations when those results are translated into United States dollars. Disruptions in the credit markets could impede our access to capital, which could further adversely affect us if we cannot maintain our current credit ratings. If we cannot obtain financing, we may need to defer capital expenditures or seek other sources of liquidity, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms if at all. All of these factors related to the global economic situation, which are beyond our control, could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.Our stock price may continue to be volatile.The market price of our common stock, similar to other medical device companies, has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The trading price of our stock varied from a low of $14.58 to a high of $25.60 during 2013. The following factors may significantly affect the market price of our common stock:•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results and the operating results of competitors;•announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;•results of clinical trials or studies by us or our competitors;•governmental regulation;•developments regarding patents or proprietary rights, including assertions our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others;•public concern regarding the safety of products developed by us or others;•the initiation or cessation in coverage of our common stock, or changes in estimates or recommendations concerning us or our common stock, by securities analysts;•changes in accounting principles;•past or future management changes;•litigation;•adverse developments in any government inquiry or investigation;•changes in market and economic conditions; and 35Table of Contents•the possibility of our financing future operations through additional issuances of equity securities, which may cause dilution to existing stockholders.In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Following the decrease in our stock price in September 2008 and following the execution of a search warrant related to a government investigation of us and certain of our employees, we became the target of securities litigation. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could cause substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business and could require us to make substantial payments to settle those proceedings or satisfy any judgments that may be reached against us.If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock or do not publish research or reports about our business, our stock price could decline.The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about our business and us. We do not control these analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our common stock could decline if one or more analysts downgrade our common stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about our business or us. If one or more analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports about our company, we could lose visibility in the financial market, which could cause our stock price to decline. Further, securities or industry analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock and such lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future.We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and intend to retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Capital appreciation of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.Protections against unsolicited takeovers in our charter and bylaws may reduce or eliminate our stockholders’ ability to resell their shares at a premium over market price.Our charter and bylaws contain provisions relating to issuance of preferred stock, special meetings of stockholders and advance notification procedures for stockholder proposals that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an unsolicited change in the control of Spectranetics. Our stockholders elect our board of directors for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing all directors at each annual meeting and may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control.We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, or Section 203, which in general and subject to exceptions, prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” (as defined in Section 203) with an “interested stockholder” (as defined in Section 203) for a period of three years after the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Section 203 may discourage, delay, or prevent an acquisition of our company even at a price our stockholders may find attractive.ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 36Table of Contents