Item 1A. Risk Factors Deteriorating economic conditions and financial markets are affecting consumer spending and may harm our business and operating results. During 2010 and possibly beyond, the U.S. and global economies may continue to suffer the consequences of the downturn in economic activity. The restaurant industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and locally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits could adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products. In addition, the recent turmoil in the financial markets has had an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. There can be no assurances that government responses to the recessionary conditions will restore consumer confidence and increase consumer spending. In general, consumers are reducing their discretionary spending and “trading down” in many cases when deciding to spend on consumer goods and dining out. The Company could experience reduced customer traffic or limitations on the prices it can charge for its products, either of which could reduce the Company’s sales and profit margins and have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Also, economic factors such as those listed above and increased transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase the Company’s cost of sales and the Company’s operating, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Our operations are susceptible to changes in food and supply costs, which could adversely affect our margins. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Our centralized purchasing staff negotiates prices for all of our ingredients and supplies through either contracts (terms of one month up to one year) or commodity pricing formulas. Our national master distributor delivers goods two to three times per week at a set, flat fee per case to all of our restaurants. Our contract with our national master distributor is up for renewal in July 2011, and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to renew this contract at the same or better terms. Furthermore, various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulations, could also cause our food and supply costs to increase. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food and supply costs by adjusting our purchasing practices. A failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results or cash flows. Changes in consumer preferences, discretionary consumer spending or negative publicity could adversely impact our results. Our restaurants feature pizzas, pastas, salads and appetizers in an upscale, family-friendly, casual environment. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these foods and this style of informal dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could materially adversely affect our future profitability. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce customer traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Like other restaurant chains, we can also be materially adversely affected by negative publicity concerning food quality, illness, injury, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more restaurants. 12 Table of Contents New information or attitudes regarding diet and health could result in changes in regulations and consumer eating habits that could adversely affect our revenues. Regulations and consumer eating habits may change as a result of new information, increases in disclosure requirements or attitudes regarding diet and health. These changes may include regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items. In addition, a number of states, counties and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to make certain nutritional information available to guests or have enacted legislation prohibiting the sales of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Efforts have been made to introduce similar legislation at the federal level. The success of our restaurant operations depends, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue certain menu items. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect guest demand for our concepts and have an adverse impact on our revenues. Approximately 40 percent of our U.S. based restaurants are located in California. As a result, we are highly sensitive to negative economic conditions in that state. Together with our franchisees, we currently operate a total of 88 restaurants in California (80 are company-owned and 8 are franchised locations). As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in California. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in California could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, earthquakes or other natural disasters. Applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations if the costs of complying with these laws or regulations prove material or if we fail to comply. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our restaurants are located, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, and food safety. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant in a particular area. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to fines or legal actions, and the costs of compliance with new regulations could be high, in each case potentially resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Our federal, state and local tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable labor laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Various federal and state labor laws and regulations govern our operations and relationships with employees, including minimum wages, breaks, overtime, fringe benefits, safety, working conditions and citizenship requirements. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or legal actions. Even though we operate our facilities in strict compliance with Bureau of Citizenship 13 Table of Contents and Immigration Services requirements and the requirements of certain states, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, fail to meet federal citizenship or residency requirements. This could result in a disruption in our work force, sanctions against us and adverse publicity. Significant government-imposed increases in minimum wages, paid or unpaid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our employees who receive gratuities could be detrimental to the profitability of our restaurants. We are subject to complaints and litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business. We are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food borne illnesses, injuries or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect our restaurants and brand, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from current, former or prospective employees from time to time. The restaurant industry in California has seen a rise in purported class action lawsuits in recent years, as has the Company. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our profitability and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. Further, defending such claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. We also are subject to some states’ “dram shop” statutes. These statutes generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person with the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. A settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop statute could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Failure to maintain our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. The Company has a five-year $150.0 million revolving credit facility that expires in May 2013. The facility contains an uncommitted option to increase, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, the maximum borrowing capacity by up to an additional $50.0 million. The credit facility contains certain restrictive and financial covenants, including that the Company maintain a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum lease adjusted leverage ratio. The availability and terms of additional financing are subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including credit worthiness. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for additional information concerning our credit facility. Our failure to maintain these covenants or the inability to renew the credit facility at maturity could have a material adverse effect on our future results and financial condition. Our future revenue and earnings per share growth depends in part upon the growth of our royalty, license and franchise revenues, which depend on contract partners we do not control. Our revenue and earnings per share growth from ancillary sources including license and franchise agreements depend, in part, upon the performance of contract partners acting independently. Adverse events beyond our control, such as quality issues related to a food product or a failure to maintain quality standards at a franchised restaurant, could negatively impact our brand, business and results of operations. The growth of our international franchise business depends in part upon our ability to find and attract quality franchisees. The growth of our domestic franchise business depends on air travel volume, as most of our domestic franchise locations are located in airports. Any events or factors that disrupt business or leisure air travel, including the current recession and threats of terrorist activity, could adversely impact our growth. A decline in ancillary revenues would have a material adverse impact on our growth, profitability and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our growth strategy requires us to open new restaurants at a measured pace. We may not be able to achieve our planned expansion due to factors outside our control, including the current economic environment. We are pursuing a disciplined growth strategy that, to be successful, depends on our ability and the ability of our franchisees and licensees to open new restaurants and to operate these new restaurants on a profitable basis. Successful expansion depends on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: the hiring, training and retention of qualified operating personnel, especially managers; competition for restaurant sites; negotiation of favorable lease terms; timely development of new restaurants, including the availability of construction materials and labor; management of construction and development costs of new restaurants; securing required governmental approvals and permits; competition in our markets; and general economic conditions. Our success depends in part on our ability to locate a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites and to open new locations in a timely manner. A challenge in meeting our growth objectives will be to secure an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and secure sufficient suitable locations for our planned expansion in any future period. Opening newly selected restaurant sites in a timely manner is, and may remain, a challenge. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in opening some of our new restaurants due to delays by landlords and developers in delivery of real estate development projects in which our new sites are located. These delays occur both in the normal course of business and, more recently, due to the weak economic environment and tight credit markets and their negative impact on the commercial real estate market. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants on time could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Landlords or other tenants in the shopping centers and retail areas in which our restaurants are located may experience difficulty as a result of macroeconomic trends or cease to operate, which in turn could negatively affect our business. In the current adverse economic climate, landlords of properties in which we operate or plan to operate may become insolvent, may be unable to obtain financing, or be otherwise unable to discharge their obligations to us under their financing arrangements or our lease agreements. If our landlords fail to satisfy their obligations to us or cannot operate their businesses in the ordinary course, such failures may result in us delaying openings or terminating leases in these locations. In addition, other tenants at the properties in which we are located or have executed leases may delay their openings, fail to open or may cease operations. Decreases in total tenant occupancy in the properties in which we are located may affect guest traffic at our restaurants. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our success depends on qualified and available labor, which could slow our growth. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers, necessary to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some areas. Although we have not experienced any significant problems in recruiting or retaining employees, any future inability to recruit and retain sufficient individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants. Any such delays or any material increases in employee turnover rates in existing restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages and/or grant awards of equity, to the extent available, to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could result in higher labor costs. Failure to pay higher wages and/or grant awards of equity may prevent us from retaining and attracting qualified employees. 15 Table of Contents Our restaurant expansion strategy focuses primarily on further penetrating existing markets. This strategy can cause sales in some of our existing restaurants to decline. In accordance with our expansion strategy, we intend to open new restaurants primarily in our existing markets. Since we typically draw customers from a relatively small radius around each of our restaurants, the sales performance and customer counts for restaurants near the area in which a new restaurant opens may decline due to cannibalization of the existing restaurant’s customer base. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with those areas. As a part of our expansion strategy, we may be opening restaurants in markets in which we have little or no operating experience. These new markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our restaurants in our existing markets. In addition, our new restaurants will typically take several months to reach budgeted operating levels due to problems associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. Restaurants opened in new markets may never reach expected sales and profit levels, thereby affecting our overall profitability. Although we have attempted to mitigate these factors by paying careful attention to training and staffing needs, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in operating new restaurants on a profitable basis. Our expansion may strain our infrastructure, which could slow our restaurant development. We face the risk that our existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, and information systems will be inadequate to support expansion. We cannot predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on management and these systems and controls. If we fail to continue to improve our information systems and financial controls or to manage other factors necessary for us to achieve our expansion objectives, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business and growth depend on the contributions of our co-CEOs, COO/CFO and other senior executives. The success of our business continues to depend on the contributions of our co-founders and co-CEOs, Richard Rosenfield and Larry Flax, our COO and CFO Susan Collyns and certain other senior executives of the Company. The loss of the services of the co-CEOs, COO/CFO or other senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans for future development. Our ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel may be harmed if we are unable to offer competitive compensation, including cash and equity awards. Our 2004 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan does not contain sufficient authorized shares to permit equity grants at similar levels as in the past. Our ability to offer equity awards in the future may be limited or nonexistent if our shareholders do not approve a new equity incentive plan. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. A number of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. The federal minimum wage increased to $7.25 per hour effective July 24, 2009. Concurrently, many state minimum wage laws also changed whereby an employee is entitled to the greater of the state or federal minimum wage. Approximately 40% of our U.S. based restaurants are located in California where employees receive compensation equal to the California minimum wage, which was $8.00 per hour during fiscal 2009. During 2009, the District of Columbia and 30 states outside of California had minimum wage increases as the result of changes in legislation. Similar increases may be implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. These minimum wage increases may increase the cost of labor and subsequently reduce our profitability. 16 Table of Contents Rising insurance costs could negatively impact profitability. The rising cost of insurance (workers’ compensation insurance, general liability insurance, health insurance and directors and officers’ liability insurance) could have a negative impact on our profitability. We self-insure a substantial portion of our workers’ compensation and general liability costs and the occurrence of a greater frequency or amount of claims or increase in medical costs could have a negative impact on our profitability. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years. These increases could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to meet the market’s expectations for our financial performance, particularly with respect to comparable restaurant sales, revenues, operating margins and diluted earnings per share, a decline in the market price of California Pizza Kitchen, Inc. common stock will likely occur. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by general stock market conditions, including the performance of broad-based stock market indices and exchanges. These conditions may result in stock market volatility, which in turn would likely impact the price of our common stock, as well as a sell-off in our common stock, both of which could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the discretion, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of our common stockholders or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 