Item 1A. Risk Factors Deteriorating economic conditions and financial markets are affecting consumer spending and may harm our business and operating results. During 2009 and possibly beyond, the U.S. and global economies may continue to suffer from a severe downturn in economic activity and remain in a recession. The restaurant industry is sensitive to such changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and locally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits could adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products. In addition, turmoil in the financial markets has had an adverse effect on the U.S. and world economies, which could negatively impact consumer spending patterns. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence and increase consumer spending. In general, consumers are reducing their discretionary spending and “trading down” in many cases when deciding to spend on consumer goods and dining out. The Company could experience reduced customer traffic or limitations on the prices it can charge for its products, either of which could reduce the Company’s sales and profit margins and have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Also, economic factors such as those listed above and increased transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase the Company’s cost of sales and the Company’s operating, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Our operations are susceptible to changes in food and supply costs, which could adversely affect our margins. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Our centralized purchasing staff negotiates prices for all of our ingredients and supplies through either contracts (terms of one month up to one year) or commodity pricing formulas. Our national master distributor delivers goods twice a week at a set, flat fee per case to all of our restaurants. Our contract with our national master distributor is up for renewal in July 2011, and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to renew this contract at the same or better terms. Furthermore, various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions and governmental regulations, could also cause our food and supply costs to increase. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food and supply costs by adjusting our purchasing practices. A failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results or cash flows. Changes in consumer preferences, discretionary consumer spending or negative publicity could adversely impact our results. Our restaurants feature pizzas, pastas, salads and appetizers in an upscale, family-friendly, casual environment. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these foods and this style of 11 Table of Contents informal dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could materially adversely affect our future profitability. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce customer traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Like other restaurant chains, we can also be materially adversely affected by negative publicity concerning food quality, illness, injury, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more restaurants. Approximately 40 percent of our U.S. based restaurants are located in California. As a result, we are highly sensitive to negative occurrences in that state. Together with our franchisees, we currently operate a total of 86 restaurants in California (79 are company-owned and seven are owned by franchisees). As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in California. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in California could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, earthquakes or other natural disasters. Applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations if the costs of complying with these laws or regulations prove material or if we fail to comply. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our restaurants are located, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, and food safety. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant in a particular area. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to fines or legal actions, and the costs of compliance with new regulations could be high, in each case potentially resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable labor laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Various federal and state labor laws and regulations govern our operations and relationships with employees, including minimum wages, breaks, overtime, fringe benefits, safety, working conditions and citizenship requirements. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or legal actions. Even though we operate our facilities in strict compliance with Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services requirements and the requirements of certain states, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, fail to meet federal citizenship or residency requirements. This could result in a disruption in our work force, sanctions against us and adverse publicity. Significant government-imposed increases in minimum wages, paid or unpaid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our employees who receive gratuities could be detrimental to the profitability of our restaurants. We are subject to complaints and litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business. We are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food borne illnesses, injuries or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect our restaurants and brand, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from current, former or prospective employees from time to time. The restaurant industry in California has seen a rise in purported class action lawsuits in recent years, as has the Company. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending 12 Table of Contents ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our profitability and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. Further, defending such claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. We also are subject to some states’ “dram shop” statutes. These statutes generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person with the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. A settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop statute could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Failure to maintain our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. The Company has a five-year $150.0 million revolving credit facility. The facility contains an uncommitted option to increase, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, the maximum borrowing capacity by up to an additional $50.0 million. The credit facility contains certain restrictive and financial covenants, including that the Company maintain a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum lease adjusted leverage ratio. The availability and terms of additional financing are subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including credit worthiness. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for additional information concerning our credit facility. Our failure to maintain these covenants or the inability to renew the credit facility at maturity could have a material adverse effect on our future results and financial condition. Our growth strategy requires us to open new restaurants at a measured pace. We may not be able to achieve our planned expansion due to factors outside our control, including the current economic environment. We are pursuing a disciplined growth strategy that, to be successful, depends on our ability and the ability of our franchisees and licensees to open new restaurants and to operate these new restaurants on a profitable basis. The success of our planned expansion will be dependent upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: the hiring, training and retention of qualified operating personnel, especially managers; competition for restaurant sites; negotiation of favorable lease terms; timely development of new restaurants, including the availability of construction materials and labor; management of construction and development costs of new restaurants; securing required governmental approvals and permits; competition in our markets; and general economic conditions. Our future revenue and earnings per share growth depends in part upon the growth of our royalty, license and franchise revenues, which are dependent on contract partners we do not control. Our revenue and earnings per share growth from ancillary sources including license and franchise agreements are dependent, in part, upon the performance of contract partners acting independently. Adverse events beyond our control, such as quality issues related to a food product or a failure to maintain quality standards at a franchised restaurant, could negatively impact our brand, business and results of operations. The growth of our international franchise business is dependent in part upon our ability to find and attract quality franchisees. The growth of our domestic franchise business is highly dependent on air travel volume, as most of our domestic franchise locations are in located in airports. Any events or factors that disrupt business or leisure air travel, including the current recession, could adversely impact our growth. A decline in ancillary revenues would have a material adverse impact on our growth, profitability and results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to locate a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites and to open new locations in a timely manner. A challenge in meeting our growth objectives will be to secure an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and secure sufficient suitable locations for our planned expansion in any future period. Opening newly selected restaurant sites in a timely manner is, and 13 Table of Contents may remain, a challenge. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in opening some of our new restaurants due to delays by landlords and developers in delivery of real estate development projects in which our new sites are located. These delays occur both in the normal course of business and, more recently, due to the weak economic environment and tight credit markets and their negative impact on the commercial real estate market. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants on time could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Landlords or other tenants in the shopping centers and retail areas in which our restaurants are located may experience difficulty as a result of macroeconomic trends or cease to operate, which in turn could negatively affect our business. In the current economic downturn, landlords of properties in which we operate or plan to operate may become insolvent, may be unable to obtain financing, or be otherwise unable to discharge their obligations to us under their financing arrangements or our lease agreements. If our landlords fail to satisfy their obligations to us or cannot operate their businesses in the ordinary course, such failures may result in us delaying openings or terminating leases in these locations. In addition, other tenants at the properties in which we are located or have executed leases may delay their openings, fail to open or may cease operations. Decreases in total tenant occupancy in the properties in which we are located may affect guest traffic at our restaurants. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our success depends on qualified and available labor, which could slow our growth. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers, necessary to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some areas. Although we have not experienced any significant problems in recruiting or retaining employees, any future inability to recruit and retain sufficient individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants. Any such delays or any material increases in employee turnover rates in existing restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages and/or grant awards of equity, to the extent available, to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could result in higher labor costs. Failure to pay higher wages and/or grant awards of equity may prevent us from retaining and attracting qualified employees. Our business and growth depend on the contributions of our co-CEOs, COO/CFO and other senior executives. The success of our business continues to be dependent on the contributions of our co-founders and co-CEOs, Richard Rosenfield and Larry Flax, our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Susan Collyns and certain other senior executives of the Company. The loss of the services of the co-CEOs, COO and CFO or other senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans for future development. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with those areas. As a part of our expansion strategy, we may be opening restaurants in markets in which we have little or no operating experience. These new markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our restaurants in our existing markets. In addition, our new restaurants will typically take several months to reach budgeted operating levels due to problems associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. Sales of restaurants opened in new markets may never reach expected sales and profit levels, thereby affecting our overall profitability. Although we have attempted to mitigate these factors by paying careful attention to training and staffing needs, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in operating new restaurants on a profitable basis. 14 Table of Contents Our expansion may strain our infrastructure, which could slow our restaurant development. We face the risk that our existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, and information systems will be inadequate to support expansion. We cannot predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on management and these systems and controls. If we fail to continue to improve our information systems and financial controls or to manage other factors necessary for us to achieve our expansion objectives, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our restaurant expansion strategy focuses primarily on further penetrating existing markets. This strategy can cause sales in some of our existing restaurants to decline. In accordance with our expansion strategy, we intend to open new restaurants primarily in our existing markets. Since we typically draw customers from a relatively small radius around each of our restaurants, the sales performance and customer counts for restaurants near the area in which a new restaurant opens may decline due to cannibalization of the existing restaurant’s customer base. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. A number of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. The federal minimum wage is currently $6.55 and will be increased in the future. However, approximately 40% of our U.S. based restaurants are located in California where employees receive compensation equal to the California minimum wage, which rose from $6.75 in 2006 to $7.50 per hour effective January 1, 2007 and to $8.00 per hour effective January 1, 2008. During 2008, there were 25 other states and the District of Columbia that had state minimum wage increases in addition to California. Similar increases may be implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. These minimum wage increases may increase the cost of labor and reduce our profitability. Our federal, state and local tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by the taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Rising insurance costs could negatively impact profitability. The rising cost of insurance (workers’ compensation insurance, general liability insurance, health insurance and directors and officers’ liability insurance) could have a negative impact on our profitability. We self-insure a substantial portion of our workers’ compensation and general liability costs and the occurrence of a greater amount of claims or increase in medical costs could have a negative impact on our profitability. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years. These increases could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. Future changes in financial accounting standards may affect our reported results and/or reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing accounting rules or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 