Item 1A. Risk Factors We extend unsecured credit to most of our customers, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected if we are unable to collect accounts receivable. We extend unsecured credit to most of our customers. Our success in attracting customers has been due, in part, to our willingness to extend credit on an unsecured basis to customers that would otherwise be required to prepay or post letters of credit with their suppliers of fuel and related services. While no single customer represents more than 10% of total consolidated revenue, diversification of credit risk is limited because we sell primarily within the marine, aviation and land transportation industries. Credit losses may be influenced by factors other than the financial condition of our customers, including deteriorating conditions in the world economy or in the marine, aviation or land transportation industries, political instability, terrorist activities, military action and natural disasters in our market areas. Credit losses, if significant, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the market price of fuel may have a material adverse effect on our business. Increases in fuel prices can adversely affect our customers’ businesses, and consequently increase our credit losses. Increases in fuel prices could also affect the amount of fuel our suppliers extend to us on credit, potentially affecting our liquidity and profitability. In addition, increases in fuel prices will make it more difficult for our customers to operate and affect the amount of fuel we can sell to our customers based on their credit limit. Conversely, a rapid decline in fuel prices could adversely affect our profitability because inventory we purchased when fuel prices were high may have to be sold at lower prices. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and future operating results. Because we resell fuel worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our business and future operating results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could increase our costs of doing business internationally; • the costs of hiring and retaining senior management for overseas operations; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, which could reduce our productivity; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, which may be costly and require significant time to implement; • laws restricting us from repatriating profits earned from our activities within foreign countries, including the payment of distributions; • political risks specific to foreign jurisdictions; and • terrorism, war, civil unrest and natural disasters. 6 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could materially affect our reported results. The majority of our business transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, in certain markets, primarily in Mexico, Colombia, Brazil and the United Kingdom, payments to some of our fuel suppliers and from some of our customers are denominated in local currency. We also have certain liabilities primarily for local operations, including income and transactional taxes, which are denominated in foreign currencies. This subjects us to foreign currency exchange risk. Although we use hedging strategies to manage and minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange risk, at any given time, only a portion of such risk may be hedged. As a result, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, many of our customers are foreign customers and may be required to purchase U.S. dollars to pay for our products and services. A rapid depreciation or devaluation in currency affecting our customers could have an adverse effect on our customers’ operations and their ability to convert local currency to U.S. dollars to make required payments to us. This would in turn increase our credit losses which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties who fail to provide services to us and our customers as agreed could harm our business. We use third parties to provide various services to our customers, including into-plane fueling at airports and fueling of vessels in port and at sea. The failure of these third parties to perform these services in accordance with the agreed terms could affect our relationships with our customers and subject us to claims and other liabilities which might have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also use third parties to store our fuel inventory and to transport fuel. If these third parties become bankrupt or otherwise fail to meet their commitments to creditors, our fuel could be seized and applied against amounts owed to such creditors. This could cause both disruptions in our business and financial losses. If the fuel we purchase from our suppliers fails to meet the specifications we have agreed to supply to our customers, our business could be adversely affected. We purchase the fuel we resell from various suppliers. If the fuel fails to meet the specifications we have agreed to supply to our customers, our relationship with our customers could be adversely affected and we could be subject to claims and other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although in most cases we have recourse against our suppliers for fuel which fails to meet agreed specifications, such recourse cannot be assured. We are exposed to various risks in connection with our use of derivatives. As part of our price risk management services, we offer our customers various pricing structures on future purchases of fuel, as well as derivative products designed to assist our customers in hedging their exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices. We also use derivatives to hedge our fuel inventories and certain purchase and sale commitments. In connection with these activities, we are exposed to financial risk associated with fluctuations in fuel prices. We typically hedge this risk by entering into commodity based derivative instruments with a counterparty. Should we fail to adequately hedge the risks associated with these activities, the hedge proves ineffective because of basis risk, or should a customer or counterparty to a derivative instrument fail to honor its obligations under our agreements with them, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, the failure of our employees to comply with our policies and procedures concerning the administration of these activities, for example by failing to hedge a specific financial risk, could subject us to significant financial losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Non-performance of suppliers on their sale commitments and customers on their purchase commitments. We enter into sale and purchase agreements with customers and suppliers for fuel at fixed prices. To the extent either a customer or supplier fails to perform on their commitment, we may be required to sell or purchase the fuel at prevailing market rates which could be significantly different than the fixed price within the sale and purchase agreements and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Material disruptions in the availability or supply of fuel would adversely affect our business. The success of our business depends on our ability to purchase, sell and coordinate delivery of fuel and fuel-related services to our customers. Our business would be adversely affected to the extent that political instability, natural disasters, terrorist activity, military action or other conditions disrupt the availability or supply of fuel. Adverse conditions in the marine, aviation and land transportation industries may have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is focused on the marketing of fuel and fuel-related services to the marine, aviation and land transportation industries. Therefore, any adverse economic conditions in these industries may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, any political instability, natural disasters, terrorist activity or military action that disrupts shipping, flight operations or land transportation will adversely affect our customers and may reduce the demand for our products and services. Our business could also be adversely affected by increased merger activity in the marine, aviation and land transportation industries, which may reduce the number of customers that purchase our products and services, as well as the prices we are able to charge for such products and services. Insurance coverage for some of our operations may be insufficient to cover losses. We do not maintain insurance coverage for various risks, including environmental claims. Although we generally require our subcontractors to carry liability insurance, not all subcontractors carry adequate insurance. Our marine business does not have liability insurance to cover the acts or omissions of our subcontractors. In addition, our liability insurance does not cover acts of war and terrorism. A significant uninsured claim ruled against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our failure to comply with the restrictions of our Credit Facility could adversely affect our operating flexibility. We borrow money pursuant to a Credit Facility that imposes certain operating and financial covenants on us. Our failure to comply with obligations under the Credit Facility, including meeting certain financial ratios, could result in an event of default. An event of default, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Facility, could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements to which we are a party, and impair our ability to obtain working capital advances and letters of credit, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our cash equivalents and investments are subject to risks which may cause illiquidity and losses from declines in value. Our cash equivalents, principally consisting of overnight investment, bank money market accounts, bank time deposits and investment grade commercial paper, and investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. Adverse changes to these risks would result in the decline of the fair value in our cash equivalents and investments, and could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 8 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates, the failure of our interest rate protection arrangements to reduce our interest rate volatility or both may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. Borrowings under our Credit Facility are subject to variable interest rates. However, from time to time, we may enter into interest rate protection arrangements that, in effect, fix the rate of interest on our debt. The amount of debt covered by such arrangements may change depending on our working capital needs. As of December 31, 2007, we had two interest rate protection arrangements in the form of interest rate swaps in the amount of $10.0 million each to reduce our exposure to increases in interest rates. These interest rate protection arrangements expire in March and April 2008. As of December 31, 2007, our total borrowing under our Credit Facility was $40.0 million and our weighted average interest rate on borrowings under the Credit Facility, adjusting for the interest rate swaps, was 5.6% per annum. An increase in interest rates, our failure to maintain adequate interest rate protection arrangements or both would increase our interest expense and could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. If we are unable to retain our senior management and key employees, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent largely on the services of our senior management and professional team. If we are unable to retain the existing senior management and professional personnel, or to attract other qualified senior management and professional personnel, our business will be adversely affected. Businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future as well as strategic investments will expose us to increased operating risks. As part of our growth strategy, we have been acquisitive and intend to continue to explore acquisition opportunities of fuel resellers and other related service businesses. These investments could expose us to additional business and operating risks and uncertainties, including: • the ability to effectively integrate and manage acquired businesses or strategic investments; • the ability to realize our investment in the acquired businesses or strategic investments; • the diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • the risk of entering markets in which we may have no or limited direct prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; • the risk that an acquisition or strategic investment could reduce our future earnings; and • exposure to unknown liabilities. We cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain all the risks inherent in any particular transaction. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and may affect the market price of our common stock. Difficulties encountered with acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws could adversely affect our business and future operating results. We are affected by various U.S. and foreign taxes imposed on the purchase and sale of marine, aviation and land fuel products. These taxes include sales, excise, GST, VAT, and other taxes. Changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws or our failure to comply with those tax laws could adversely affect our business and operating results. 9 Table of Contents We face intense competition and, if we are not able to effectively compete in our markets, our revenues and profits may decrease. Competitive pressures in our markets could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from large multinational corporations, which have significantly greater capital resources, to relatively small and specialized firms. In addition to competing with fuel resellers, we also compete with the major oil producers that market fuel directly to the large commercial airlines, shipping companies and petroleum distributors operating in the land transportation market. Our business could be adversely affected because of increased competition from the larger oil companies, who may choose to directly market to smaller airlines, shipping companies and petroleum distributors operating in the land transportation market, or to provide less advantageous price and credit terms to us than to our fuel reseller competitors. If we fail to successfully integrate, or should we experience material issues related to the implementation of our enterprise integration project, our business could be harmed. We are currently in the post implementation phase of an enterprise integration project, which consists of a company-wide financial and commercial information system implementation. The total expenditures required for this project through the stabilization period are currently estimated to be $37.7 million, of which $36.3 million had been incurred through December 31, 2007. If we fail to successfully integrate this project, or should we experience material issues related to the implementation, our ability to grow our business would be adversely affected. In addition, should the actual costs of the project exceed our estimates, our liquidity and capital position could be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and governmental regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are required to comply with extensive and complex environmental laws and regulations at the international, federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: • the handling of fuel and fuel products; • the operation of bulk fuel storage facilities; • workplace safety; • fuel spillage or seepage; • environmental damage; and • hazardous waste disposal. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances; if there are releases of fuel and fuel products we own; or if we are found to be in violation of environmental laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to possible claims by customers, employees and others who may be injured by a fuel spill, exposure to fuel or other accidents. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. If we are held liable for clean up and other costs related to several businesses we exited, which handled hazardous and non-hazardous waste, such liability could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have exited several businesses that handled hazardous and non-hazardous waste. We treated and/or transported this waste to various disposal facilities in the United States. We have been sued in the past and may be sued in the future as a potentially responsible party for the clean up of such disposal facilities and may be held liable for these and other clean up costs pursuant to United States federal and state laws and regulations. In addition, under these laws and regulations, we may be required to clean up facilities previously operated by us. 10 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to have adequate internal controls over financial reporting and to evaluate those internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We completed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. We expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions and our reputation may be adversely affected and the market price of our stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 