Item 1A. Risk Factors We extend credit to most of our customers in connection with their purchases of fuel and services from us, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected if we are unable to collect accounts receivable. We extend credit to certain of our customers in connection with their purchases of fuel and services from us. Our success in attracting customers has been due, in part, to our willingness to extend credit on an unsecured basis to customers that would otherwise be required to prepay or post letters of credit with other suppliers of fuel and other services. While no single customer represents more than 10% of our total consolidated revenue, diversification of credit risk is limited because we sell primarily within the aviation, marine and land transportation industries. 4 Table of Contents Our exposure to credit losses will depend on the financial condition of our customers and other factors beyond our control, such as deteriorating conditions in the world economy or in the aviation, marine or land transportation industries, political instability, terrorist activities, military action or natural disasters in our market areas. The overall volatility in the credit and financial markets over the past several years increases our potential exposure to customer credit risk because it can make it more difficult for our customers to access sufficient capital to meet their liquidity needs. This market volatility, coupled with a reduction of business activity generally, increases our risks related to our status as an unsecured creditor of most of our customers. Credit losses, if significant, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Certain of our contracts with customers, suppliers and financial institutions expose us to heightened counterparty risk, which could have an adverse effect on our business. As part of our price risk management services, we offer our customers various pricing structures for future purchases of fuel, including derivatives products designed to assist our customers with hedging their exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into fixed forward pricing contracts ("fixed forward contracts") with our customers and suppliers under which we agree to sell or purchase, as the case may be, certain volumes of fuel at fixed prices. In addition, we may enter into swap transactions with a customer where we act as the counterparty in the customer's own attempt to mitigate their risk against price fluctuations. Furthermore, we may use derivatives to hedge price risks associated with our fuel inventories and purchase and sale commitments. We typically hedge our financial risk in any of the foregoing types of transactions by entering into commodity-based derivative instruments with financial institution counterparties (such as exchanges, broker/dealers, large energy companies and commercial and investment banks), often on an unsecured basis. If we have not required a customer to post collateral in connection with a fixed forward contract or swap transaction, we will have effectively extended unsecured credit to that customer in an amount equal to the difference between the fixed price and the current market price multiplied by the applicable volumes of fuel. Based on the volatility of fuel prices, our counterparties may not be willing or able to fulfill their obligations to us under their fixed forward contracts or their swap transactions. For example, in the event the spot market price of fuel at the time of delivery is significantly less than the fixed price, a customer could decide to default on their purchase obligation to us and purchase the fuel at the current spot market rate from another supplier. Meanwhile, we may have already entered into a corresponding commitment with a supplier and/or entered into a swap contract with a financial counterparty in order to offer our customer specified pricing or terms. Our failure to honor any of these commitments could expose us to claims for damages, penalties or other costs. Although we have credit standards and perform credit evaluations of our customers and suppliers, our evaluations may be inaccurate and we cannot assure you that credit performance will not be materially worse than anticipated. Accordingly, should any counterparty fail to honor its obligations under our agreements with them, we could sustain significant losses that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to costs and liabilities as a result of the derailment of a train carrying our crude oil in Lac-Mégantic, Quebec in July 2013. We, on behalf of DPTS Marketing, LLC ("DPM"), a crude oil marketing joint venture in which we own a 50% membership interest, purchased crude oil from various producers in the Bakken region of North Dakota. Dakota Petroleum Transport Solutions, LLC ("DPTS"), a crude oil transloading joint venture in which we also own a 50% membership interest, arranged for the transloading of the crude oil for DPM into tank cars at the joint venture's facility in New Town, North Dakota. We leased the tank cars used in the transloading from a number of third party lessors and subleased these tank cars to DPM. We, on behalf of DPM, contracted with Canadian Pacific Railway ("CPR") for the transportation of the tank cars and the crude oil from New Town, North Dakota to a customer in New Brunswick, Canada. CPR subcontracted a portion of that route to Montreal, Maine and Atlantic Railway ("MMA"). On July 6, 2013, the freight train operated by MMA with tank cars carrying approximately 50,000 barrels of crude oil derailed in Lac-Mégantic, Quebec. The derailment resulted in significant loss of life, damage to the environment from spilled crude oil and extensive property damage. We, certain of our subsidiaries, DPM and DPTS, along with a number of third parties, including CPR, MMA and certain of its affiliates, several manufacturers and lessors of tank cars, as well as the intended purchaser and certain suppliers of the crude oil, were named as defendants in lawsuits and proceedings related to the incident. In addition, orders were issued by the government of Quebec against CPR, MMA and us, requiring CPR, MMA and us to recover the spilled crude oil caused by the incident and to otherwise fully remediate the impact of the incident on the environment. For a more detailed discussion of these proceedings, see "Legal Proceedings" under Part I – Item 3 of this 2013 10-K Report. As a result of the Lac-Mégantic derailment, the Canadian Transportation Safety Board is conducting an investigation into the cause of the derailment and the events surrounding it. In addition, the Quebec police are conducting a criminal investigation and are reported to be coordinating with Canadian and U.S. law enforcement authorities. 5 Table of Contents Additional claims, lawsuits, proceedings, investigations and orders may be filed, commenced or issued with respect to the incident, which may involve civil claims for damages or governmental investigative, regulatory or enforcement actions against us. The adverse resolution of any proceedings related to these events could subject us and/or DPM or DPTS to monetary damages, fines and other costs, which could have a negative and material impact on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. While we and our joint ventures, DPM and DPTS, maintain insurance to mitigate the costs of environmental releases as well as other results of unexpected events, including loss of life, property damage and defense costs, there can be no guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to cover all liabilities that may be incurred as a result of this incident. However, we expect that substantially all of the legal costs we incur in defending against the proceedings described above will be covered by insurance. We are also evaluating potential claims that we, DPM or DPTS may assert against third parties to recover costs and other liabilities that may be incurred as a result of this incident. We can provide no guarantee that any such claims, if brought by us, will be successful or, if successful, that the responsible parties will have the financial resources to address any such claims. Any losses not covered by insurance or otherwise not recoverable from third parties, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our fuel storage and transportation operations have inherent risks that could negatively impact our stock price, results of operations and financial condition. Operating fuel storage and distribution terminals and transporting fuel products involve inherent risks including: • oil spills and other environmental mishaps; • fires, collisions and other catastrophic disasters; • loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment; and • loss of product and business interruption. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in fines and third party lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain insurance to mitigate these costs, but there can be no assurance that our insurance would be sufficient to cover the liabilities we might suffer from the occurrence of one or more of the risks described above. In addition, if we are involved in a spill, leak, fire or other accident involving hazardous substances or if there are releases of fuel or fuel products we own or have custody of, our operations could be disrupted. We could also be subject to material liabilities, such as the cost of investigating and remediating contaminated properties or claims by customers, employees or others who may have been injured, or whose property may have been damaged. These liabilities, to the extent not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means we could have liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Any of these occurrences, and any resulting negative media coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. We rely upon our information technology ("IT") and communications systems to support key business functions and the efficient operation of these systems is critical to our business. Our IT systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, and/or errors by our employees. A significant disruption in the functioning of these systems could damage our reputation, our ability to conduct our business, impact our credit and risk exposure decisions, cause us to lose customers or revenues, subject us to litigation and/or require us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve these issues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses, some of which may be subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect such information, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of that information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities (including cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses and the like), discovery of new vulnerabilities, physical system or network break-ins, inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our networks that access and store sensitive information. The risk of a security breach or disruption, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Furthermore, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security in the U.S. and abroad (particularly in the European Union). Significant changes in applicable regulations may require us to make costly changes to our systems. Although we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 6 Table of Contents Businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future, as well as strategic investments such as joint venture arrangements, expose us to increased operating risks. As part of our growth strategy, we have been acquisitive and intend to continue to explore acquisition opportunities of fuel resellers, logistics companies and other service businesses. We cannot provide any assurance that we will find attractive acquisition candidates in the future, that we will be able to acquire such candidates on economically acceptable terms or that we will be able to finance acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. If we acquire new businesses in the future, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses or we may complete potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, which may affect the market price of our common stock, inhibit our ability to pay dividends or restrict our operations. We have also entered into joint venture arrangements and equity method investments intended to complement or expand our business. These types of transactions are subject to substantial risks and liabilities associated with their operations, as well as the risk that our relationships with our partners do not succeed in the manner that we anticipate. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including: • our ability to effectively integrate and manage acquired businesses or strategic investments, while maintaining uniform standards and controls; • our ability to realize our investment and anticipated synergies in the acquired businesses or strategic investments; • the diversion of management's time and attention from other business concerns, the potentially negative impact of changes in management on existing business relationships and other disruptions of our business; • the risks associated with entering into businesses or markets in which we may have no or limited direct prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired businesses; • the ability to integrate the IT systems of acquired businesses into our existing IT infrastructure and manage those systems that cannot be effectively integrated; • the requirement to write-down acquired assets as a result of the acquired business being worth less than we paid for it; • capital expenditure requirements exceeding our estimates; • the risk that an acquisition or strategic investment could reduce our future earnings; and • the assumption of material liabilities, exposure to litigation or unknown liabilities, and no or limited indemnities. Insurance coverage for some of our operations may be insufficient to cover losses. We maintain insurance to cover various risks associated with the operation of our business. Certain risks, however, such as environmental risks, are not fully insurable and our insurance coverage does not cover all potential losses, costs, or liabilities. Accordingly, our insurance policies may not adequately cover or may have exclusions of coverage for certain losses. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be available or will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. Furthermore, our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance and the cost of such insurance may be affected by significant claims, such as the Lac-Mégantic derailment, and conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. If the cost of insurance increases, we may decide to discontinue certain insurance coverage, reduce our level of coverage or increase our deductibles in order to offset the cost increase. In addition, our existing types and levels of insurance coverage could become difficult or impossible to obtain in the future. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance, the loss of insurance coverage or a significant increase in the cost of insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to various risks in connection with our use of derivatives which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We enter into financial derivative contracts in order to mitigate the risk of market price fluctuations in aviation, marine and land fuel, to offer our customers fuel pricing alternatives to meet their needs and to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. However, our efforts to hedge our exposure to fuel price and exchange rate fluctuations could be ineffective. For example, because there currently is no market for aviation jet fuel futures, we enter into hedging transactions with respect to our aviation business by trading in heating oil futures. If the price of aviation jet fuel and heating oil are not correlated, then it is more likely that our attempts to mitigate price risk associated with our aviation business would not be effective. For purposes of hedging, heating oil is not a perfect substitute for aviation jet fuel and short-term significant pricing differences may occur. There may be times where the change in the price of jet fuel increases or decreases based on market supply-and-demand fundamentals or disruptive events (e.g. hurricanes) while the change in the price of heating oil remains relatively constant. 7 Table of Contents We also enter into proprietary derivative transactions, primarily intended to capitalize on arbitrage opportunities associated with basis or time spreads related to fuel products we sell. Proprietary derivative transactions, by their nature, entail exposure to adverse changes in commodity prices in relation to our proprietary position. Although we have established limits on such exposure, any such adverse changes could result in losses. The risks we face because of our use of financial derivatives can be exacerbated by volatility in the financial and other markets. In addition, we may fail to adequately hedge our risks or could otherwise incur losses if our employees fail to comply with our policies and procedures with respect to hedging or proprietary trading, for example by engaging in unauthorized trading activity or failing to hedge a specific financial risk or observe limits on exposure, which could subject us to financial losses that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Finally, the majority of our derivatives are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes, and we therefore recognize changes in the fair market value of these derivatives as a component of revenue or cost of revenue (based on the underlying transaction type) in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. Since the fair value of these derivatives are marked to market at the end of each quarter, changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments as a result of gains or losses may cause our earnings to fluctuate from period to period. If we fail to comply with laws or other government regulations applicable to our operations, we could suffer penalties or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and other regulations at the international, federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: • the transportation and handling of fuel and fuel products; • the operation of fuel storage and distribution facilities; • workplace safety; • fuel spillage or seepage; • environmental protection; • consumer and data protection; • regulatory reporting requirements; and • hazardous waste disposal. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties or to civil or criminal liability. In addition, compliance with existing and future laws regulating the delivery of fuel by barge, truck or railcar, fuel storage terminals and underground storage tanks that we own or operate may require significant capital expenditures and increased operating and maintenance costs. Any significant fines and costs incurred as a result of such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Reduced sales to our government customers could adversely affect our profitability. As a result of complex logistics and extended payment terms for our government customers, sales of products and services to such customers generally carry higher margins than sales to other customers. U.S. government budget constraints and the scheduled withdrawal of armed forces from Afghanistan are expected to result in a decrease in defense spending, which in turn could cause a significant reduction in sales and related profit in our government services business. Furthermore, profitability associated with our government services business may fluctuate significantly from time to time as a result of the commencement, extension or completion of existing and new government contracts. Accordingly, a decrease in government sales could contribute disproportionately to a reduction in our gross margin and profitability and such decrease could be sudden. Therefore, the loss of a significant government customer or a material reduction in sales to government customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is dependent on the ability to obtain financing to meet our capital requirements and fund our future growth, which may be particularly difficult to obtain if there is volatility in the credit or capital markets. We rely on credit arrangements with banks, suppliers and other parties as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flow. Any inability to obtain credit as and when we need it on commercially reasonable terms or at all, such as in the event there is a substantial tightening of the global credit markets or a significant reduction in supplier trade credit, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and cash flows, as well as our future development and growth. Furthermore, if we are unable to obtain debt financing and instead raise capital through an equity issuance, existing shareholders would be diluted. Even if we are able to obtain debt financing, the restrictions creditors may place on our operations and our increased interest expense and leverage could limit our ability to grow. 8 Table of Contents Adverse conditions in the aviation, marine and land transportation industries may have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is focused on the marketing of fuel and other related products and services to the aviation, marine and land transportation industries, which are generally affected by economic cycles. Therefore, weak economic conditions can have a negative impact on the business of our customers which may, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, any political instability, natural disasters, terrorist activity or military action that disrupts shipping, flight operations or land transportation will adversely affect our customers and may reduce the demand for our products and services. Our business could also be adversely affected by increased merger activity in the aviation, marine or land transportation industries, which may reduce the number of customers that purchase our products and services, as well as the prices we are able to charge for such products and services. In addition, the aviation, marine and land transportation industries are subject to continuing changes in laws and regulations, including environmental regulations mandating or incentivizing alternative energy sources or attempting to control or limit emissions and pollution. For example, recent amendments to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or MARPOL, established a phased reduction of the sulfur content in fuel oil and allows for stricter sulfur limits in designated emission control areas. Further changes in laws and regulations applicable to international and national maritime trade are expected over the coming years. Complying with these and other laws and regulations may require capital expenditures by our customers or otherwise increase our customers' operating costs, which could in turn, reduce the demand for our products and services. Although the ultimate impact of any regulations is difficult to predict accurately, they could have a material adverse effect on our business or on the businesses of our customers. If the fuel and other products we purchase from our suppliers fails to meet the contractual specifications we have agreed to supply to our customers, our business could be adversely affected. We purchase fuel and other products from suppliers and resell to customers. If the fuel and other products we sell fails to meet the specifications we have agreed to with customers, we could incur significant liabilities if a customer initiates a claim or a lawsuit for which we settle or results in a decision against us. In addition, our relationship with our customers could be adversely affected and adverse publicity about any allegations of contaminated products may negatively affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are true. Although in most cases we have recourse against our suppliers for products that fail to meet contractual specifications, such recourse cannot be assured and may be costly to enforce. For example, several of our supply agreements are with foreign entities, including foreign governments, and are governed by the laws of foreign jurisdictions. If a supplier breaches such agreement, then we may incur the additional costs of determining our rights and obligations under the agreement, under applicable foreign laws, and enforcing an agreement in a foreign jurisdiction. Any significant liability in excess of any applicable insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the market price of fuel may have a material adverse effect on our business. Fuel prices have been extremely volatile in the past, may be volatile in the future and depend on factors outside of our control, such as: • global economic conditions; • changes in global crude oil and natural gas prices; • expected and actual supply and demand for fuel; • political conditions; • laws and regulations related to environmental matters, including those mandating or incentivizing alternative energy sources or otherwise addressing global climate change; • changes in pricing or production controls by various organizations and oil producing countries; • technological advances affecting energy consumption or supply; • energy conservation efforts; • price and availability of alternative fuels; and • weather. As fuel prices increase, our customers may not be able to purchase as much fuel from us because of their credit limits with us and the resulting adverse impact on their business could cause them to be unable to make payments owed to us for fuel purchased on credit. They may also choose to reduce the amount of fuel they consume in their operations in order to reduce costs or comply with new environmental regulations to obtain associated incentives. For example, in the shipping industry an increasing number of container ships are sailing at reduced speeds, known as "slow-steaming," in order to conserve fuel and reduce carbon emissions. In any such event, there can be no assurance that the volume of orders from our customers will increase again or that we will be able to replace lost volumes with new customers. In addition, if fuel prices increase, our own credit limits could prevent us from purchasing enough fuel from our suppliers to meet our customers' demands or could require us to prepay for fuel purchases which would impair our liquidity. 9 Table of Contents We also maintain fuel inventories for competitive reasons. Because fuel is a commodity, we have no control over the changing market value of our inventory. Our inventory is valued using the average cost methodology and is stated at the lower of average cost or market. While we attempt to mitigate these fluctuations through hedging, there can be no assurance that such hedges will be effective. A rapid decline in fuel prices could cause our inventory value to be higher than market, resulting in our inventory being marked down to market or the inventory itself sold at lower prices. Accordingly, if the market value of our inventory is less than our average cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of revenue, which would adversely impact our earnings. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and future operating results. Because we offer fuel products and services on a worldwide basis, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our business and future operating results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could increase our costs of or prevent us from doing certain business internationally; • the costs of hiring and retaining senior management for overseas operations; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, which could reduce our productivity; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, which may be costly and require significant time to implement; • laws restricting us from repatriating profits earned from our activities within foreign countries, including the payment of distributions;• governmental actions that may result in the deprivation of our contractual rights or the inability to obtain or retain authorizations required to conduct our business; • political risks specific to foreign jurisdictions; and • terrorism, war, civil unrest and natural disasters. In particular, we operate in certain international markets which have been plagued by corruption and have uncertain regulatory environments, either of which could have a negative impact on our operations there. Furthermore, many countries in which we operate have historically been, and may continue to be, susceptible to recessions or currency devaluation. We also operate in certain high risk locations that have been experiencing military action or continued unrest which could disrupt the supply of fuel or otherwise disrupt our operations in those areas. In these high risk locations, we may also incur substantial operating costs, including maintaining the safety of our personnel. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee the safety of our personnel in these locations and there is a risk of serious injury or loss of life of employees or subcontractors. Our international operations require us to comply with applicable U.S and international laws and regulations. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. These regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices and partners and investment decisions. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, and economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"). The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act prohibits bribery both in the United Kingdom and internationally, as well as bribery across public and private sectors. As part of our business, we regularly deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals. From time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive OFAC-administered sanctions, specifically Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan. These business dealings, which represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, generally consist of the purchase of overflight permits and the provision of flight support and fuel services pursuant to licenses issued by OFAC or as otherwise permitted by U.S. sanctions regulations. As a result of the above activities, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption laws and OFAC regulations. Violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors maintain prohibitions or restrictions on investments in companies that do business with sanctioned countries, which could adversely affect the market for our securities. 10 Table of Contents On December 8, 2009, we received an administrative subpoena from OFAC requesting information regarding our transactions involving Sudanese overflight payments since June 30, 2008. We responded to the subpoena and identified a small number of sanctioned country-related transactions which took place after our license had expired that may have resulted in violations of U.S. sanctions regulations or our OFAC-issued license. In our response to OFAC, we noted that the transactions we identified as potential violations resulted in very small amounts of revenue to us. We have also taken various remedial actions to further strengthen our compliance related policies and procedures. Nevertheless, should OFAC determine that these activities constituted violations of U.S. sanctions regulations, civil penalties, including fines, could be assessed against us. Additionally, in the course of its ongoing review, OFAC could request additional information from us, in the form of additional subpoenas or otherwise, and we intend to fully cooperate with any such additional subpoenas or requests. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the OFAC review, the total costs to be incurred in response to this review, the potential impact on our personnel, the effect of implementing any further measures that may be necessary to ensure full compliance with U.S. sanctions regulations or to what extent, if at all, we could be subject to fines, sanctions or other penalties. If we are unable to retain our senior management and key employees, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent on the services of our senior management and key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our key executive officers, the employment agreements do not prevent those officers from ceasing their employment with us at any time. If we are unable to retain existing senior management and key personnel, or to attract other qualified senior management and key personnel on terms satisfactory to us, our business will be adversely affected. While we maintain key man life insurance with respect to certain members of senior management, our coverage levels may not be sufficient to offset any losses we may incur and there is no assurance that we will continue to maintain key man life insurance in the future. Our failure to comply with the requirements of our Credit Facility and Term Loans could adversely affect our operating flexibility. We have the ability to borrow money pursuant to a Credit Facility and Term Loans that impose certain operating and financial covenants on us, such as limiting or prohibiting our ability to (i) pay dividends, (ii) incur additional debt, (iii) create liens, (iv) make restricted payments, (v) sell assets and (vi) engage in mergers or acquisitions. Our failure to comply with the requirements of these facilities, including meeting certain financial ratios, could result in an event of default. An event of default, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness under these facilities, could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements to which we are a party, such as certain derivative contracts and promissory notes issued in connection with acquisitions, and would impair our ability to obtain working capital advances and letters of credit, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations may be adversely affected by legislation as well as competition from other energy sources and new or advanced technology. Fuel competes with other sources of energy, some of which are less costly on an equivalent energy basis. There are significant governmental incentives and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the United States. A number of automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers are developing more fuel efficient engines, hybrid engines and alternative clean power systems using fuel cells or clean burning gaseous fuels. The more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental incentives or regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the potential negative impact on pricing and demand for our products and services and accordingly, our profitability. In addition, federal, state and/or foreign governments may enact legislation or regulations that attempt to control or limit GHGs such as carbon dioxide. Such laws or regulations could impose costs tied to carbon emissions, operational requirements or restrictions, or additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities. They could also provide a cost advantage to alternative energy sources, result in other costs or requirements, such as costs associated with the adoption of new infrastructure and technology to respond to new mandates, or impose costs or restrictions on end users of fuel. For example, some of our customers in the transportation industry may be required to purchase allowances or offsets or incur other costs to comply with existing or future requirements relating to GHG. Finally, the focus on climate change could also negatively impact the reputation of fuel products or services such as those we offer. The occurrence of the foregoing events could put upward pressure on the cost of fuel relative to other energy sources, increase our costs and the prices we charge to customers, reduce the demand for our products, and therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Third parties who fail to provide services to us or our customers as agreed could harm our business. We use third parties to provide various services to our customers, including into-plane fueling at airports, fueling of vessels in port and at sea and delivering land-based fuel. The failure of these third parties to perform these services in accordance with contractual terms for any reason, such as an interruption of their business because of weather, environmental or labor difficulties or political unrest, could affect our relationships with our customers and subject us to claims and other liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents To the extent that we use third parties in our operations in foreign markets, we are also subject to the risk that we would be held accountable for the failure of these third parties to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. and various international jurisdictions. Current and proposed derivatives legislation and rulemaking could have an adverse effect on our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010 (the "Act") provides for federal regulation of the over-the-counter swaps market both for commodities and securities, and gives the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") and the SEC broad authority to regulate the swaps market and its principal participants. This includes, among others, derivative transactions linked to crude oil, refined products and natural gas prices. The CFTC and the SEC are continuing to consider, finalize and implement rules governing, among other things, where swaps are transacted (on exchange versus off exchange); how they are transacted (cleared versus uncleared; margined versus unmargined); the differing responsibilities of those who participate in over-the-counter derivatives (end users, swap dealers, major swap participants); and the application of cross-border rules in the global derivatives market. Regulations setting limits on the size of a party's derivative positions in major energy markets were adopted by the CFTC but vacated after a successful challenge in Federal court. In November 2013, the CFTC proposed a new position limits rule which would limit trading in options, futures, and swaps contracts related to certain agricultural, metal, and energy commodities, including energy commodities in which we currently engage in derivative transactions. We cannot currently predict whether or when the proposed rule will be adopted or the effect of the final rule on our business. Furthermore, certain of the other requirements under the Act have taken effect and other regulations that could have a significant impact on us are expected to be finalized in the near future. In addition, various foreign jurisdictions have adopted or are in the process of adopting legislation regulating the use of derivatives, including Singapore and Europe, where we currently conduct certain derivatives related activities. As regulations are finalized, adopted and implemented, we continue to evaluate how legislation will impact our ability to conduct our business. In particular, the Act and any new (or newly implemented) regulations and international legislation could significantly increase the cost of our derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our cash flows and liquidity, or subject us directly or indirectly to reporting requirements), materially alter the terms of our derivative contracts, reduce our ability to offer derivative and other price management products to our customers, reduce the demand for our price risk management services, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, increase price volatility in commodities we buy and sell (and derivatives related to those commodities), reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity price contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If the increased cost of derivative contracts is significant or we reduce or limit our derivatives activities as a result of the legislation, our profitability and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations and cash flows. Increased governmental regulation of shipments by rail of crude oil and other fuel products may lead to additional costs. We rely in part on rail shipments to transport crude oil and other fuel products in both the United States and Canada. Recent rail incidents have led and are likely to continue to lead to additional governmental regulation of rail shipments of crude oil and other fuel products in Canada and the United States and to increased safety standards for the tank cars that transport these products. We cannot predict with any certainty what form any additional regulations may take. Any increased regulation could result in higher operating costs, which could adversely affect our operating results. Material disruptions in the availability or supply of fuel would adversely affect our business. The success of a significant portion of our business depends on our ability to purchase, sell and coordinate delivery of fuel and fuel-related services to our customers. Our business would be adversely affected to the extent that political instability, natural disasters, terrorist activity, military action or other conditions disrupt the availability or supply of fuel. In addition, we rely on a single or limited number of suppliers for the provision of fuel and related products and services in certain markets. These parties may have significant negotiating leverage over us, and if they are unable or unwilling to supply us on commercially reasonable terms, our business would be adversely affected. Our cash equivalents and investments are subject to risks that may cause illiquidity and losses from declines in value. Our cash equivalents, principally consisting of overnight investments, bank money market accounts and bank time deposits are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk, which can be exacerbated by volatility in the capital markets. Adverse changes in this respect can result in the decline of the fair value of our cash equivalents and therefore our liquidity, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Current and future litigation could have an adverse effect on us. We are currently involved in legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of our business. Lawsuits and other administrative or legal proceedings can involve substantial costs, including the costs associated with investigation, litigation and possible settlement, judgment, penalty or fine. Although we generally maintain insurance to mitigate certain costs, there can be no assurance that costs associated with lawsuits or other legal proceedings will not exceed the limits of insurance policies. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected if a judgment, penalty or fine is not fully covered by insurance. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could materially affect our reported results. The majority of our business transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars. In certain markets, however, payments to some of our fuel suppliers and from some of our customers are denominated in local currency. We also have certain liabilities, primarily for local operations, including income and transactional taxes, that are denominated in foreign currencies. This subjects us to foreign currency exchange risk. Although we use hedging strategies to manage and minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange risk, at any given time, only a portion of this risk may be hedged, and our exposure to this risk may be substantial. As a result, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, many of our customers are based outside of the U.S. and may be required to purchase U.S. dollars to pay for our products and services. A rapid depreciation or devaluation in currency that affects our customers could have an adverse effect on their operations and their ability to convert local currency to U.S. dollars in order to make required payments to us. This could, in turn, increase our credit losses and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face intense competition and, if we are not able to effectively compete in our markets, our revenues and profits may decrease. Competitive pressures in our markets could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from large multinational corporations, which have significantly greater capital resources than us, to relatively small and specialized firms. In addition to competing with fuel resellers, we also compete with the major oil producers that market fuel directly to the large commercial airlines, shipping companies and petroleum distributors operating in the land transportation market. Although many major oil companies have been divesting their downstream assets, some continue to compete with us in certain markets while others may decide to re-enter the market in the future. Our business could be adversely affected because of increased competition from these oil companies, who may choose to increase their direct marketing in order to compete with us or provide less advantageous price and credit terms to us than to our fuel reseller competitors. Changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws could adversely affect our business and future operating results. We are affected by various U.S. and foreign taxes, including income taxes and taxes imposed on the purchase and sale of aviation, marine and land fuel products, such as sales, excise, value added tax, energy, environmental and other taxes. From time to time, we may also benefit from special tax concessions in certain jurisdictions. Changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws, our failure to comply with such laws or the loss of tax concessions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities and, although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Finally, we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the U.S., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the U.S. may result in higher effective income tax rates for the Company. In addition, there have been proposals to change U.S. income tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our income tax expense, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 