Item 1A. Risk Factors We extend unsecured credit to most of our customers in connection with their purchases of fuel from us, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected if we are unable to collect accounts receivable. We extend unsecured credit to most of our customers in connection with their purchases of fuel from us. Our success in attracting customers has been due, in part, to our willingness to extend credit on an unsecured basis to customers that would otherwise be required to prepay or post letters of credit with other suppliers of fuel and related services. While no single customer represents more than 10% of our total consolidated revenue, diversification of credit risk is limited because we sell primarily within the marine, aviation and land transportation industries. Our exposure to credit losses will depend on the financial condition of our customers and other factors beyond our control, such as deteriorating conditions in the world economy or in the marine, aviation or land transportation industries, political instability, terrorist activities, military action and natural disasters in our market areas. The unprecedented levels of disruption and volatility in the credit and financial markets over the past several years have increased our possible exposure to customer credit risk because it has made it harder for our customers to access sufficient capital to meet their liquidity needs. This market turmoil coupled with a reduction of business activity generally increases our risks related to our status as an unsecured creditor of most of our customers. Credit losses, if significant, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents We are exposed to counterparty risk in connection with certain of our contracts. The soundness of our counterparties, which include our customers and suppliers and financial institutions, could adversely affect us. We have exposure to the marine, aviation and land fuel industries as well as to our customers and suppliers in those industries. As part of our price risk management services, we offer our customers various pricing structures on future purchases of fuel, as well as derivative products designed to assist our customers in hedging their exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices. For example, in the ordinary course of our business we enter into fixed forward pricing contracts with our customers and suppliers under which we agree to sell or purchase, as the case may be, fuel at fixed prices and they agree to purchase or sell, as the case may be, fixed volumes of fuel during the term of the contract. If there is a significant fluctuation in the price of fuel, there is a risk they could decide to, or be forced to, default under their obligations to us. Even if the counterparty to a fixed forward pricing contract does not default, if a customer has agreed to purchase fuel from us at a fixed price and the price of fuel drops, we will be functionally extending unsecured credit to that customer at the time the fuel is purchased. We have credit standards and perform credit evaluations of our customers and suppliers, which are based in part on our credit history with the applicable party. In this difficult economic environment, our credit evaluations may be inaccurate and we cannot assure you that credit performance will not be materially worse than anticipated, and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We also use derivatives to hedge certain of our fuel inventories and certain purchase and sale commitments. In connection with these activities, we are exposed to financial risk associated with fluctuations in fuel prices. We typically hedge this risk by entering into commodity-based derivative instruments with financial institution counterparties, such as broker/dealers, commercial banks and investment banks. These transactions are typically done on an unsecured basis and should the counterparty fail to honor its obligations under our agreements with them, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the U.S. Senate, U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other U.S. and foreign regulators have considered, and are expected to continue considering, greater regulation of oil, gas and other energy markets. The regulation under consideration includes, among other things, proposed position limits, climate change legislation and legislation that would require the central clearance of over-the-counter derivatives. The timing and scope of any regulation is uncertain, but such regulation could limit our ability to offer derivative and other pricing structure products and may change the volatility in the commodity and underlying markets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our and our customers’ business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to various risks in connection with our use of derivatives. We enter into financial derivative contracts in order to mitigate the risk of market price fluctuations in marine, aviation and land fuel, to offer our customers fuel pricing alternatives to meet their needs and in order to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. From time to time, we also enter into certain limited risk derivative transactions which are speculative in nature, primarily basis spreads related to fuel products sold by the company. The majority of our derivatives are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes and therefore changes in the fair market value of such derivatives are recognized as a component of revenue or cost of revenue (based on the underlying transaction type) in our consolidated income statement. Our efforts to hedge our exposure to fuel price fluctuations could be ineffective. For example, there currently is no market for aviation jet fuel futures so we enter into hedging transactions with respect to our aviation business by trading in heating oil futures. To the extent the price of aviation jet fuel and heating oil are not correlated, then our attempts to mitigate price risk associated with our aviation business would not be effective. For purposes of hedging, heating oil is not a perfect substitute for aviation jet fuel and it is not unseen for short-term significant differences in the pricing to occur. For example, in the period immediately following Hurricane Katrina in 2005, the price of aviation jet fuel increased substantially while the price of heating oil remained relatively constant. Our hedging activity is in the Level II and Level III categories within the fair value 7 Table of Contents hierarchy set out by accounting guidance for fair value measurements and as such requires a high degree of subjective assessment and judgment by management in connection with determining fair value. The risks we face because of our use of financial derivatives have been exacerbated by the recent volatility in the financial and other markets. In addition, we may fail to adequately hedge our risks if our employees fail to comply with our policies and procedures on hedging, for example by failing to hedge a specific financial risk, which could subject us to significant financial losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the market price of fuel may have a material adverse effect on our business. Fuel prices which have been extremely volatile in the recent past, are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, and depend on factors outside the control of the Company, such as: • expected and actual supply and demand for fuel; • political conditions • laws and regulations related to environmental matters, including those mandating or incentivizing alternative energy sources or otherwise addressing global climate change; • changes in pricing or production controls by OPEC; • technological advances affecting energy consumption and supply; • energy conversation efforts; • price and availability of alternative fuels; and • weather. A rapid decline in fuel prices could cause our inventory value to be higher than market resulting in our inventory being marked down to market or the inventory itself may ultimately have to be sold at lower prices. If fuel prices increase, our customers may not be able to purchase as much fuel from us because of their credit limits, which could also adversely impact their businesses sufficiently to cause them to be unable to make payments owed to us for fuel we permitted them to purchase on credit. They may also choose to reduce the amount of fuel they consume in their operations to reduce costs or to otherwise comply with new environmental regulations or to obtain incentives associated therewith. There would be no assurance that the volume of orders from our customers would increase again or that we would be able to replace lost volumes by courting new customers. In addition, if fuel prices increase, our own credit limits could prevent us from purchasing enough fuel from our suppliers to meet our customers’ demands or could require us to use so much cash for fuel purchases as to impair our liquidity. We maintain fuel inventories for competitive reasons. Because fuel is a commodity, we have no control over the changing market value of our inventory. Our inventory is valued using the average cost methodology and is stated at the lower of average cost or market. Accordingly, if the market value of our inventory was less than our average cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of revenue. In addition, we may not be able to sell our inventory at the market value or average cost reflected in our financial statements at any given time. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and future operating results. Because we resell fuel worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our business and future operating results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could increase our costs of doing business internationally; • the costs of hiring and retaining senior management for overseas operations; 8 Table of Contents • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, which could reduce our productivity; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, which may be costly and require significant time to implement; • laws restricting us from repatriating profits earned from our activities within foreign countries, including the payment of distributions; • political risks specific to foreign jurisdictions; and • terrorism, war, civil unrest and natural disasters. In particular, we operate in emerging markets, such as Russia and certain countries in Asia and Latin America, which have been plagued by corruption and have uncertain regulatory environments, both of which could have a negative impact on our operations there. Many countries in which we operate historically have been and may continue to be susceptible to recessions or currency devaluation. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could materially affect our reported results. The majority of our business transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, in certain markets, payments to some of our fuel suppliers and from some of our customers are denominated in local currency. We also have certain liabilities primarily for local operations, including income and transactional taxes, which are denominated in foreign currencies. This subjects us to foreign currency exchange risk. Although we use hedging strategies to manage and minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange risk, at any given time, only a portion of such risk may be hedged and such risk may be substantial. As a result, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, many of our customers are foreign customers and may be required to purchase U.S. dollars to pay for our products and services. A rapid depreciation or devaluation in currency affecting our customers could have an adverse effect on our customers’ operations and their ability to convert local currency to U.S. dollars to make required payments to us. This would in turn increase our credit losses which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties who fail to provide services to us and our customers as agreed could harm our business. We use third parties to provide various services to our customers, including into-plane fueling at airports, fueling of vessels in port and at sea and delivering land-based fuel. The failure of these third parties to perform these services in accordance with the agreed terms for any reason, such as an interruption of their business because of weather, environmental or labor difficulties or political unrest, could affect our relationships with our customers and subject us to claims and other liabilities which might have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that we use third parties in our operations in emerging markets, we are subject to the risk that we could be held accountable for the failure of these third parties to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. If the fuel we purchase from our suppliers fails to meet the specifications we have agreed to supply to our customers, our business could be adversely affected. We purchase the fuel we resell from various suppliers. If the fuel fails to meet the specifications we have agreed to supply to our customers, our relationship with our customers could be adversely affected and we could be subject to claims and other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although in most cases we have recourse against our suppliers for fuel which fails to meet agreed specifications, such recourse cannot be assured. 9 Table of Contents Non-performance of suppliers on their sale commitments and customers on their purchase commitments could disrupt our business. We enter into sale and purchase agreements with customers and suppliers for fuel at fixed prices. To the extent either a customer or supplier fails to perform on their commitment, we may be required to sell or purchase the fuel at prevailing market rates, which could be significantly different than the fixed price within the sale and purchase agreements and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Material disruptions in the availability or supply of fuel would adversely affect our business. The success of our business depends on our ability to purchase, sell and coordinate delivery of fuel and fuel-related services to our customers. Our business would be adversely affected to the extent that political instability, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, terrorist activity, military action or other conditions disrupt the availability or supply of fuel. In addition, we rely on a single or limited number of suppliers for the provision of fuel and related services in certain markets. These parties may have significant negotiation leverage over us and should they be unable or unwilling to supply us on commercially reasonable terms, our business would be adversely affected. Adverse conditions in the marine, aviation and land transportation industries may have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is focused on the marketing of fuel and fuel-related services to the marine, aviation and land transportation industries. Therefore, any adverse economic conditions in these industries may have an adverse effect on our business. Recently, the aviation industry has experienced a decline in passenger traffic, and the marine industry has witnessed a slowdown in shipping, in both cases as a result of the deterioration of the global economy. In addition, any political instability, natural disasters, terrorist activity or military action that disrupts shipping, flight operations or land transportation will adversely affect our customers and may reduce the demand for our products and services. Our business could also be adversely affected by increased merger activity in the marine, aviation and land transportation industries, which may reduce the number of customers that purchase our products and services, as well as the prices we are able to charge for such products and services. In addition, the marine, aviation and land transportation industries are subject to laws and regulations related to environmental matters, including those mandating or incentivizing alternative energy sources or otherwise addressing global climate change, which may reduce the demand for our products and services. The scientific community, led largely by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has provided scientific evidence that human activity, and particularly the combustion of fossil fuels, has increased the levels of GHGs in the atmosphere and contributed to observed changes in the global climate system. These findings have led to proposals for substantial transformation of the world’s energy production and transportation systems in order to slow, and ultimately reduce, the production of CO2 and other GHG emissions sufficiently to reduce their atmospheric concentrations. As a result of requirements for GHG emissions, our customers could be required to purchase allowances or offsets to emit GHGs or other regulated pollutants or to pay taxes on such emissions. The ultimate legislation and regulations that result from these activities could have a material impact on our business and on the businesses of our customers. Insurance coverage for some of our operations may be insufficient to cover losses. We do not maintain insurance coverage for various risks, such as the acts or omissions of our subcontractors and war and terrorism. Even if we are faced with a liability in connection with which we do maintain insurance, our insurance coverage may be inadequate, such as with environmental claims. Also, if we take, or fail to take, certain actions, such as, our insurance carriers may refuse to pay particular claims. If the cost of insurance increases, we may decide to discontinue certain insurance coverage or reduce our level of coverage to offset the cost increase. In addition, insurance coverage that we currently have could become difficult or impossible to obtain in the future. 10 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the restrictions of our Credit Facility could adversely affect our operating flexibility. We have the ability to borrow money pursuant to a Credit Facility that imposes certain operating and financial covenants on us, such as limiting or prohibiting our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt, create liens, make restricted payments, sell assets or engage in mergers or acquisitions. Our failure to comply with obligations under the Credit Facility, including meeting certain financial ratios, could result in an event of default. An event of default, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Facility, could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements to which we are a party, such as certain derivatives contracts and promissory notes issued in connection with acquisitions, and would impair our ability to obtain working capital advances and letters of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our cash equivalents and investments are subject to risks which may cause illiquidity and losses from declines in value. Our cash equivalents, principally consisting of overnight investments, bank money market accounts, bank time deposits, money market mutual funds, investment grade commercial paper, and investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk, which have all been exacerbated recently due to the unprecedented volatility of the capital markets. Adverse changes to these risks have resulted, and could further result, in the decline of the fair value in our cash equivalents and investments, and could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Increases in interest rates, the failure of our interest rate protection arrangements, if any, to reduce our interest rate volatility or both may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. Borrowings under our Credit Facility are subject to variable interest rates. However, from time to time, we may enter into interest rate protection arrangements that, in effect, fix the rate of interest on our debt. The amount of debt covered by such arrangements may change depending on our working capital needs. As of December 31, 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings under our Credit Facility or outstanding interest rate protection arrangements. Should we borrow under our Credit Facility, an increase in interest rates, our failure to maintain adequate interest rate protection arrangements or both would increase our interest expense and could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. Our business is dependent on the ability to obtain financing to meet our capital requirements and fund our future growth, which may be particularly difficult to obtain because of the recent tightening and volatility of the credit and capital markets. We rely on credit arrangements with banks, suppliers and other parties as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flow. Over the last several years there has been a substantial tightening of the global credit markets, which, along with our then-current financial condition and the restrictions in our existing debt agreements, could affect our ability to obtain credit as and when we need it on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, consequently, could have a negative impact on our future development and growth. If we are unable to obtain debt financing and instead raise capital through an equity issuance, existing shareholders would be diluted. Even if we are able to obtain debt financing, the restrictions creditors place on our operations and our increased interest expense and leverage could limit our ability to grow. If we are unable to retain our senior management and key employees, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent largely on the services of our senior management and professional team. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our key executive 11 Table of Contents officers, the employment agreements do not prevent those officers from ceasing their employment with us at any time. If we are unable to retain the existing senior management and professional personnel, or to attract other qualified senior management and professional personnel on terms satisfactory to us, our business will be adversely affected. While we maintain key man life insurance with respect to certain members of our senior management, our coverage levels may not be sufficient to offset any losses we may suffer as a result of our loss of the officers, and there is no assurance that we will continue to maintain key man life insurance in the future. Businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future as well as strategic investments will expose us to increased operating risks. As part of our growth strategy, we have been acquisitive and intend to continue to explore acquisition opportunities of fuel resellers and other related service businesses. For example, we purchased Henty Oil Limited, Tank and Marine Engineering Limited and Henty Shipping Services Limited (collectively, “Henty”) and certain assets of TGS Petroleum, Inc. (the “TGS business”) in 2009. We cannot provide any assurance that we will find attractive acquisition candidates in the future, that we will be able to acquire such candidates on economically acceptable terms, or that we will be able to finance acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. Even if we are able to acquire new businesses in the future, they could result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses or potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and may affect the market price of our common stock, inhibit our ability to pay dividends or restrict our operations. These investments could expose us to additional business and operating risks and uncertainties, including: • the ability to effectively integrate and manage acquired businesses or strategic investments, while maintaining uniform standards and controls; • the ability to realize our investment and anticipated synergies in the acquired businesses or strategic investments; • the diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns, the potentially negative impact of changes in management on existing business relationships, and other disruptions of our business; • the risk of entering markets in which we may have no or limited direct prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired businesses; • the requirement to write-down acquired assets as a result of the acquired business being worth less than we paid for it; • additional capital expenditure requirements; • the risk that an acquisition or strategic investment could reduce our future earnings; and • the assumption of material liabilities, exposure to unknown liabilities, and no or limited indemnities. Changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws could adversely affect our business and future operating results. We are affected by various U.S. and foreign taxes imposed on the purchase and sale of marine, aviation and land fuel products. These taxes include sales, excise, GST, VAT, and other taxes. Changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws or our failure to comply with those tax laws could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our international operations require us to comply with applicable U.S and international laws and regulations. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires the Company and its subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. These regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices and partners and investment decisions. In particular, our international operations 12 Table of Contents are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business. As part of our business, we regularly deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals. From time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have had limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive OFAC-administered sanctions, specifically Cuba, Iran and Sudan. These business dealings, which represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, generally consist of the purchase of overflight permits and the provision of flight support and fuel services pursuant to licenses issued by OFAC or as otherwise permitted by U.S. sanctions regulations. As a result of the above activities, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption laws and OFAC regulations. Violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist the Company’s and its personnel’s compliance with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors maintain prohibitions or restrictions on investments in companies that do business with sanctioned countries which could adversely affect the market for our securities. On April 19, 2009, we received an administrative subpoena from the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) requesting information regarding transactions that the Company has conducted involving Cuba since April 1, 2004. Upon receipt of this subpoena, we initiated an internal review to identify transactions involving Cuba, and we voluntarily expanded the scope of this review to include transactions involving Iran and Sudan. On December 8, 2009, we received a separate administrative subpoena from OFAC requesting information regarding the Company’s transactions involving Sudanese overflight payments since June 30, 2008. We responded to both subpoenas and identified certain transactions that may have resulted in violations of U.S. sanctions regulations or our OFAC-issued licenses, including the failure to make certain periodic reports as required by our OFAC-issued licenses and a small number of sanctioned country-related transactions which took place after one of our licenses had expired. In our responses to OFAC, we noted that the transactions we identified as potential violations resulted in very small amounts of revenue to us, and that we intend to take certain remedial actions to further strengthen our compliance related policies and procedures. Nevertheless, should OFAC determine that these activities constituted violations of U.S. sanctions regulations, civil penalties, including fines, could be assessed against the Company. Additionally, in the course of its ongoing review, OFAC could request additional information from us, in the form of additional subpoenas or otherwise, and we intend to fully cooperate with any such additional subpoenas or requests. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the OFAC review, the total costs to be incurred in response to this review, the potential impact on our personnel, the effect of implementing any further measures that may be necessary to ensure full compliance with U.S. sanctions regulations or to what extent, if at all, we could be subject to fines, sanctions or other penalties. We face intense competition and, if we are not able to effectively compete in our markets, our revenues and profits may decrease. Competitive pressures in our markets could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from large multinational corporations, which have significantly greater capital resources, to relatively small and specialized firms. In addition to competing with fuel resellers, we also compete 13 Table of Contents with the major oil producers that market fuel directly to the large commercial airlines, shipping companies and petroleum distributors operating in the land transportation market. Our business could be adversely affected because of increased competition from the larger oil companies, who may choose to directly market to airlines, shipping companies and petroleum distributors operating in the land transportation market, or to provide less advantageous price and credit terms to us than to our fuel reseller competitors. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and other government regulations applicable to our operations, we could suffer penalties or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with extensive and complex environmental laws and other regulations at the international, federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: • the handling of fuel and fuel products; • the operation of fuel storage and distribution facilities; • workplace safety; • fuel spillage or seepage; • environmental damage; and • hazardous waste disposal. If we should fail to comply with these laws and other regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. If we are involved in a spill, leak, fire, explosion or other accident involving hazardous substances or if there are releases of fuel or fuel products we own, our operations could be disrupted and we could be subject to material liabilities, such as the cost of investigating and remediating contaminated properties or claims by customers, employees or others who may have been injured, or whose property may have been damaged. These liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means we could have liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. In addition, compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating fuel storage terminals, fuel delivery vessels and barges and underground storage tanks that we own or operate may require significant capital expenditures and increased operating and maintenance costs. The remediation and other costs required to clean up or treat contaminated sites could be substantial. Our fuel storage and vessel and barge operations have inherent risks that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Operating fuel storage terminals and fuel delivery vessels and barges carries with it the inherent risks of oil spills and other environmental mishaps, fires, collisions and other catastrophic disasters, loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, loss of product and business interruption. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in third party lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain insurance to mitigate these costs, but there can be no assurance that our insurance would be sufficient to cover the liabilities suffered by us from the occurrence of one or more of the risks described above. Further, if we are negligent or otherwise responsible in connection with any such event, our insurance may not cover our claim. The media coverage resulting from any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents If we are held liable for clean up and other costs related to several businesses we exited, which handled hazardous and non-hazardous waste, such liability could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have exited several businesses, such as the used oil recycling business, that handled hazardous and non-hazardous waste. We treated and/or transported this waste to various disposal facilities in the United States. We have been sued in the past and may be sued in the future as a potentially responsible party for the clean up of such disposal facilities and may be held liable for these and other clean up costs pursuant to U.S. federal and state laws and regulations. In addition, under these laws and regulations, we may be required to clean up facilities previously operated by us. Our operations may be adversely affected by competition from other energy sources. Fuel competes with other sources of energy, some of which are less costly on an equivalent energy basis. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that the development of alternative energy sources might have on our operations. Current and future litigation could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company is currently involved in certain legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its business. Lawsuits and other legal proceedings can involve substantial costs, including the costs associated with investigation, litigation and possible settlement, judgment, penalty or fine. Although insurance is maintained to mitigate these costs, there can be no assurance that costs associated with lawsuits or other legal proceedings will not exceed the limits of insurance policies. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if a judgment, penalty or fine is not fully covered by insurance. We are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to have adequate internal controls over financial reporting and to evaluate those internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We completed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, and we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. In addition, we have expansive international operations, the scope and breadth of which exacerbate the risks associated with our internal controls. Accordingly, we expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions and our reputation may be adversely affected and the market price of our stock could decline. Moreover, even if we and our auditors do not identify any concerns about our internal control system, it may not prevent all potential errors or fraud. We may not achieve sufficient earnings to pay dividends to our shareholders. We currently intend to pay regular cash dividends on a quarterly basis, but may be restricted from doing so by the terms of our Credit Facility or may not achieve sufficient earnings to pay some or any dividends. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common shares is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable 15 Table of Contents from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded corporate interests. Reduced demand for our common shares resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common shares to decline. Failure to comply with state laws regulating the sale of alcohol and tobacco products in our convenience stores may result in the loss of necessary licenses and the imposition of penalties on us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. State laws regulate the sale of alcohol and tobacco products in our convenience stores. A violation or change of these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations because state and local regulatory agencies have the power to approve, revoke, suspend or deny applications for, and renewals of, permits and licenses relating to the sale of these products or to seek other remedies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 