ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial positions, results of operations or cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness •Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $13.6 billion principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $2.8 billion of borrowings outstanding under our senior credit facility. We had approximately $1.2 billion of available borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility as of December 31, 2012. Any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. ("MGM Grand Paradise"), the company that owns and operates MGM Macau, had approximately $554 million of debt outstanding under its amended and restated credit facility. We do not guarantee MGM China's obligations under its credit agreement and, to the extent MGM China were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into that entity is limited by the negative covenants in our existing debt instruments. In addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: •increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; •limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; •making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. Moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. For our owned and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. Such investment requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Similarly, future development projects and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. •Current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments in joint ventures depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, our ability to receive distributions from joint ventures and our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. If adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, continue to receive distributions from joint ventures or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. 16 We have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2015 and thereafter. Our ability to timely refinance and replace such indebtedness will depend upon the foregoing as well as on continued and sustained improvements in financial markets. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. •The agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. Covenants governing our senior credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: •pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay debt or make certain investments; •incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; •incur liens on assets; •pledge or sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and •enter into sale and lease-back transactions. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. Any default under our senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise and MGM China are co-borrowers under an amended and restated credit facility which contains covenants that restrict their ability to engage in certain transactions. In particular, the MGM China amended and restated credit facility requires MGM China to satisfy various financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio, and imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on MGM Grand Paradise and its subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on its ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. Risks Related to our Business •We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. We do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. To the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. Major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in Las Vegas and Macau. Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas, including California, has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas and elsewhere. In particular, as large scale gaming operations on Native American tribal lands has increased, particularly in California, competition has increased. 17 In addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the U.S. and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in California in the United States. Outside the United States, while our Macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near Asia, including Singapore, Australia and New Zealand, certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including Malaysia, Vietnam, and Cambodia) and others (such as Japan, Taiwan and Thailand) may legalize casino gaming in the future. Furthermore, currently MGM Grand Paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the Macau government to operate casinos in Macau. If the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaries open additional facilities (for example, the facilities currently being developed in Cotai, Macau), we would face increased competition. Furthermore, most jurisdictions in which casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. Although a number of jurisdictions in the United States and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. In addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. •Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various state and federal legislatures and officials. Increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. For a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see "Regulation and Licensing." Further, our directors, officers, key employees and joint venture partners must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. If state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or joint venture partner unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the joint venture partner may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the joint venture. State regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or joint venture partners to ensure compliance with applicable standards. For example, as a result of the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement (the "DGE") investigation of our relationship with our joint venture partner in Macau, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DGE under which we were required to sell our 50% ownership interest in Borgata and related leased land in Atlantic City. On August 8, 2011, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission approved an amendment to the settlement agreement which extends the time within which the sale of the trust property must occur by 18 months, so that until March 24, 2013 we have the right to direct the trustee to sell the trust 18 property (the "divestiture period"), but, if the sale is not concluded by that date, the trustee will sell such interests within the following 12 months (the "terminal sale period"). On February 13, 2013, the settlement agreement was further amended to allow us to re-apply to the CCC for licensure in New Jersey and to defer expiration of these periods pending the outcome of the licensure process. If the CCC denies our licensure request, then the divestiture period will immediately end, and the terminal sale period will immediately begin, which will result in our Borgata interest being disposed of by the trustee pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement. Certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. In Macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from MGM China's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, MGM China's activities in Macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that MGM China will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. Macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. In addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. For example, Illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos and, in January 2013, casinos in Macau, including MGM China, implemented a smoking ban in which a portion of casino floors are to be designated non-smoking. The likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Any violations of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. •Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions and business development. Economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. In addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job or housing market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. Aria, Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas and The Mirage in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the Far East, and all of our Nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the United States, and California in particular. A recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. For example, the recent economic uncertainty has impacted consumer and corporate spending, which has had a negative impact on our results of 19 operations. In addition, the weak housing and real estate market—both generally and in Nevada particularly—has negatively impacted CityCenter's ability to sell residential units. In addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to MGM Macau from mainland China, general economic and market conditions in China could impact our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes to China's current restrictions on travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to MGM Macau as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. For example, in May and July 2008, China readjusted its visa policy toward Macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland Chinese citizens may make to Macau in a given time period. In September 2008, it was publicly announced that mainland Chinese citizens with a Hong Kong visa (but not a Macau visa) could no longer enter Macau from Hong Kong. In addition, in May 2009, China also began to restrict the operation of "below-cost" tour groups involving low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to Macau from mainland China. It is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, or become more restrictive, in the future. These developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to Macau from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in Macau. •We have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. In connection with the initial public offering of MGM China, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates MGM Macau, we entered into a Deed of Non-Compete Undertakings with MGM China and Ms. Pansy Ho pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the People's Republic of China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. While gaming is currently prohibited in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete with our competitors in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) March 31, 2020, (ii) the date MGM China's ordinary shares cease to be listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited or (iii) the date when our ownership of MGM China shares is less than 20% of the then issued share capital of MGM China. •The Macau government can terminate MGM Grand Paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise, the Macau government can exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession in 2017 or the Macau government can refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2020, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by MGM Grand Paradise with applicable Macau laws or MGM Grand Paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. MGM Grand Paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the Macau government. Upon such termination, all of MGM Grand Paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the Macau government without compensation to MGM Grand Paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the Macau government. Furthermore, under the subconcession contract, MGM Grand Paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the Macau government might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our Macau businesses. If any disagreement arises between MGM Grand Paradise and the Macau government regarding the interpretation of, or MGM Grand Paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, MGM Grand Paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation 20 process with the Macau government. During any consultation or negotiation, MGM Grand Paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the Macau government. Currently, there is no precedent concerning how the Macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. The loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in Macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the subconcession contract expires on March 31, 2020. Unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of MGM Grand Paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the Macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. Beginning on April 20, 2017, the Macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, MGM Grand Paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by MGM Grand Paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to MGM Grand Paradise or at all. We also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to MGM Grand Paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. •We are required to build and open our development in Cotai, Macau by January 2018. If we are unable to meet this deadline, and the deadline for the development is not extended, we may lose the land concession, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concession. The land concession for the approximately 17.8 acre site on Cotai, Macau was officially gazetted on January 9, 2013. If we are unable to build and open our proposed resort and casino by January 2018, and the deadline is not extended, the Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the land concession contract. A loss of the land concession could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. •MGM Grand Paradise is dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion of gaming revenues in Macau. Junket operators, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of MGM Grand Paradise's gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in gaming in Macau, the competition for relationships with junket operators has increased. While MGM Grand Paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with junket operators, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with junket operators. If MGM Grand Paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with junket operators, or if junket operators are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers, MGM Grand Paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. In addition, the quality of junket operators is important to MGM Grand Paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. While MGM Grand Paradise strives for excellence in associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that the junket operators with whom MGM Grand Paradise is or becomes associated with will meet the high standards insisted upon. If a junket operator falls below MGM Grand Paradise's standards, MGM Grand Paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. •Extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. Certain of our casino properties are located in 21 areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the United States and severe typhoons in Macau. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. Although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. •Because our major domestic gaming resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. As such, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from Las Vegas can adversely affect our business. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from Las Vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. Reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. •We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables. We conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. Table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. We issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. Uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. While gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations and even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Furthermore, we expect that MGM Macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent MGM Macau gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, MGM Macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and MGM Macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Moreover, under applicable law, MGM Macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. 22 •We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits. We review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. Significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges may be required in future periods. If we are required to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. •Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. Since most of our customers travel by air to our Las Vegas and Macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. •Investing through partnerships or joint ventures including CityCenter decreases our ability to manage risk. In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, the operation of a joint venture is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. In addition, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner's or co-venturer's share of joint venture liabilities. For instance, CityCenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. If CityCenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our partners are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. In addition, the agreements governing CityCenter's indebtedness subject CityCenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. The CityCenter second amended and restated credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require CityCenter to maintain a minimum trailing annual EBITDA (as defined in CityCenter's second amended and restated credit facility) for each quarter, commencing on March 31, 2013. We cannot be sure that CityCenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. In addition, in accordance with our joint venture agreement and the CityCenter second amended and restated credit facility, we provided a completion guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of Circus Circus Las Vegas and certain adjacent undeveloped land. 23 •Any of our future construction or development projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects. Any of our future construction or development projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: •lack of sufficient, or delays in availability of, financing; •changes to plans and specifications; •engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; •shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; •delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; •changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; •labor disputes or work stoppages; •disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; •personal injuries to workers and other persons; •environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; •weather interferences or delays; •fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; •geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and •other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. The occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future construction projects which we might undertake. We cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted. •Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. Although we have "all risk" property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. 24 We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. •CityCenter has decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the Harmon in the event of a code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, and we are exposed to risks prior to or in connection with the demolition process. After partial construction of the Harmon, CityCenter discovered that in certain elements of the building (known as link beams) the reinforcing steel had been installed incorrectly by CityCenter's general contractor Perini Building Company ("Perini") and its subcontractors. After additional structural defects in other areas of the Harmon were discovered, further construction at the Harmon was indefinitely stopped. During the third quarter of 2010, CityCenter determined that the Harmon was unlikely to be completed using the existing partially completed structure as it now stands. A consulting engineer engaged by CityCenter in 2011 to conduct a review requested by the Clark County Building Division (the "Building Division") opined, among other things, that "[i]n a code-level earthquake, using either the permitted or current code specified loads, it is likely that critical structural members in the tower will fail and become incapable of supporting gravity loads, leading to a partial or complete collapse of the tower. There is missing or misplaced reinforcing steel in columns, beams, shear walls, and transfer walls throughout the structure of the tower below the twenty-first floor." In response to this opinion, the Building Division required CityCenter to provide a plan of action to abate the potential for structural collapse of the Harmon. After expert consultation, CityCenter informed the Building Division that it has decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the Harmon by demolishing the building, subject to the receipt of court approval. A partial or complete collapse of the Harmon prior to demolition, or the demolition process itself, could result in property damage or injury, which could have a material adverse effect on CityCenter's and our business and/or cause reputational harm to CityCenter and us. CityCenter's second amended and restated credit facility provides that certain demolition expenses may be funded only by equity contributions from its members or certain specified extraordinary receipts (which include any proceeds from the Perini litigation). •Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. While our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. We file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the United States and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. •Tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other holders of our stock. As of December 31, 2012, Tracinda Corporation beneficially owned approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over us as a result of its significant ownership of our outstanding 25 common stock. For example, actions requiring stockholder approval that may be supported by other stockholders might be effectively blocked by Tracinda Corporation. •We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-United States laws, regulations and customs. In particular, the risks associated with the operation of MGM Macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: •changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in Macau or other foreign jurisdictions; •changes in non-United States government programs; •possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; •general economic conditions and policies in China, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; •difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-United States operations; •different labor regulations; •changes in environmental, health and safety laws; •potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; •economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and •uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If the United States dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our United States dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. •Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. We are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. •We face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. We may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see the further discussion "Legal Proceedings." 26 •A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Approximately 30,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreements covering most of our Las Vegas union employees expire in 2013. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations, and to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. •Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. •Failure to maintain the integrity of internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. We collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. •We may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful. We intend to consider strategic and complementary investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. Furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with third parties. Investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: •spending cash and incurring debt; •assuming contingent liabilities; •contributing properties or related assets to hospitality ventures that could result in recognition of losses; or •creating additional expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such investments or alliances. •If the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected. State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. From time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. Periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. If the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 27 •Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China, the holding company for MGM Grand Paradise which owns and operates MGM Macau. As a result of the initial public offering of shares of MGM China common stock, MGM China now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of MGM China may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of MGM China. Decisions that could have different implications for us and MGM China, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with MGM China, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 