ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. • Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $13.5 billion of indebtedness. In late February 2009, we borrowed $842 million under our senior credit facility, which amount represented — after giving effect to $93 million in outstanding letters of credit — the total amount of unused borrowing capacity available under our $7.0 billion senior credit facility. In connection with the waiver and amendment described below, on March 17, 2009 we repaid $300 million under the senior credit facility, which amount is not available for reborrowing without the consent of the lenders. We have no other existing sources of borrowing availability, except to the extent we pay down further amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $2.8 billion of financial commitments and estimated capital expenditures in 2009, excluding commitments under employment, entertainment and other operational agreements. Furthermore, the interest rate applicable to our borrowings under the senior credit facility is based on variable reference rates and our leverage ratio. Any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: — increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; — limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; — limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and — placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors. • Our senior credit facility contains financial covenants, and we do not expect to be in compliance with such financial covenants in 2009. While we were in compliance with the financial covenants under our senior credit facility at December 31, 2008, if the recent adverse conditions in the economy in general — and the gaming industry in particular — continue, we believe that we will not be in compliance with those financial covenants during 2009. In fact, given these conditions and the recent borrowing under the senior credit facility, we do not expect to be in compliance with those financial covenants at March 31, 2009. As a result, on March 17, 2009 we obtained from the lenders under the senior credit facility a waiver of the requirement that we comply with such financial covenants through May 15, 2009. Additionally, we entered into an amendment of our senior credit facility which provides for, among other terms, the following: — We agreed to repay $300 million of the outstanding borrowings under the senior credit facility, which amount is not available for reborrowing without the consent of the lenders; — We are prohibited from prepaying or repurchasing our outstanding long-term debt or disposing of material assets; and other restrictive covenants were added that limit our ability to make investments and incur indebtedness; 12 Table of Contents — The interest rate on outstanding borrowings under the senior credit facility was increased by 100 basis points; and — Our required equity contributions in CityCenter are limited through May 15, 2009 such that we can only make contributions if Infinity World makes its required contributions; our equity contributions do not exceed specified amounts (though we believe the limitation is in excess of the amounts expected to be required through May 15, 2009); and the CityCenter senior secured credit facility has not been accelerated. Following expiration of the waiver on May 15, 2009, we will be subject to an event of default related to the expected noncompliance with financial covenants under the senior credit facility at March 31, 2009. We intend to work with our lenders to obtain additional waivers or amendments prior to May 15, 2009 to address future noncompliance with the senior credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to secure such waivers or amendments. The lenders holding at least a majority of the principal amount under our senior credit facility could, among other actions, accelerate the obligation to repay borrowings under our senior credit facility in such an event of default. As a result of such event of default, under certain circumstances, cross defaults could occur under our indentures and the CityCenter $1.8 billion senior secured credit facility, which could accelerate the obligation to repay amounts outstanding under such indentures and the CityCenter credit facility and could result in termination of the unfunded commitments under the CityCenter credit facility. If the lenders exercise any or all such rights, we or CityCenter may determine to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. • There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The uncertainties described above regarding 1) our ability to meet our financial commitments, and 2) our potential noncompliance with financial covenants under our senior credit facility, raise a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classifications of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. As a result, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 contains an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to secure a waiver or amendment related to potential noncompliance under our senior credit facility or be able to address our 2009 financial commitments in such a way as to be able to continue as a going concern. • Current economic conditions adversely impact our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments in joint ventures, such as CityCenter, depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future and our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. If adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants which we are subject to under our indebtedness. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. • Our casinos in Las Vegas and elsewhere are destination resorts that compete with other destination travel locations throughout the United States and the world. We do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. To the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. Major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in Las Vegas. Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas, including California, has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas and elsewhere. In particular, as large scale gaming operations in Native American tribal lands has increased, particularly in California, competition has increased. 13 Table of Contents • The ownership and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative impact on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. For a summary of gaming regulations that affect our business, see “Regulation and Licensing.” The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. • Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations our customers reside. Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay and The Mirage are particularly affected by economic conditions in the Far East, and all of our Nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the United States, and California in particular. A recession, economic slowdown or other economic issues affecting consumers is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. For example, the downturn in consumer spending and economic conditions that existed in 2008, and is expected to continue in 2009, has had a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the weak housing and real estate market — both generally and in Nevada particularly — has negatively impacted CityCenter’s ability to sell residential units. • Certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. Although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. • We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy. Accordingly, increases in energy costs, such as those experienced in 2007 and 2008, may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher energy and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. • Many of our customers travel by air. As a result, the cost and availability of air service and the impact of any events which disrupt air travel can affect our business. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights into or out of Las Vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion or our visitors. Reductions in flights by major airlines, such as those implemented in 2008 as a result of higher fuel prices and lower demand, can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. • Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. These events can create economic and political uncertainties that could adversely impact our business levels. Furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. 14 Table of Contents • Our City Center joint venture involves significant risks. The development and ultimate operation of CityCenter is subject to unique risk given the scope of the development and financing requirements placed on us and our partner, Infinity World. If we or our partner are unable to meet our funding requirements or if City Center’s $1.8 billion senior secured credit facility is terminated — for instance, due to cross defaults at the partner level — then this could cause the development of CityCenter to be delayed or suspended indefinitely. Such an event could have adverse financial consequences to us. • Our joint venture in Macau S.A.R. involves significant risks. The operation of MGM Grand Macau, 50% owned by us, is subject to unique risks, including risks related to: (a) Macau’s regulatory framework; (b) our ability to adapt to the different regulatory and gaming environment in Macau while remaining in compliance with the requirements of the gaming regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate, as well as other applicable federal, state, or local laws in the United States and Macau; (c) potential political or economic instability; and (d) the extreme weather conditions in the region. Furthermore, such operations in Macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories are subject to risk pertaining to international operations. These may include financial risks, such as foreign economy, adverse tax consequences, and inability to adequately enforce our rights. These may also include regulatory and political risks, such as foreign government regulations, general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, hostilities with neighboring counties, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. • Our plans for future construction can be affected by a number of factors, including time delays in obtaining necessary governmental permits and approvals and legal challenges. We may make changes in project scope, budgets and schedules for competitive, aesthetic or other reasons, and these changes may also result from circumstances beyond our control. These circumstances include weather interference, shortages of materials and labor, work stoppages, labor disputes, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, and unanticipated cost increases. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays or cost overruns. Major expansion projects at our existing resorts can also result in disruption of our business during the construction period. • Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. It is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be affected by the resolution of these claims. Please see the further discussion in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” • Tracinda Corporation beneficially owned approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result, Tracinda Corporation has the ability to elect our entire Board of Directors and determine the outcome of other matters submitted to our stockholders, such as the approval of significant transactions. • A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 30,000 of our 61,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 4,000 employees at MGM Grand Las Vegas expired in 2008. We have signed an extension of such agreement and are currently negotiating a new agreement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 