ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. • We have significant indebtedness. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $11.2 billion of indebtedness. The interest rate on a large portion of our long-term debt will be subject to fluctuation based on changes in short-term interest rates and the level of debt-to-EBITDA (as defined) under the provisions of our senior credit facility. Our current senior credit facility and the indentures governing our debt securities do not prohibit us from borrowing additional funds in the future. Our interest expense could increase as a result of these factors. Additionally, our indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and industry, limit our ability to borrow additional funds, and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors. Our ability to reduce our outstanding debt will be subject to our future cash flows, other capital requirements and other factors, some of which are not within our control. 10 Table of Contents • Our casinos in Las Vegas and elsewhere are destination resorts that compete with other destination travel locations throughout the United States and the world. We do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. To the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. Major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in Las Vegas. Also, the recent growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas, including California, has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas and elsewhere. In particular, as large scale gaming operations in Native American tribal lands increase, competition will increase. • The expansion of Native American gaming in California has already impacted our operations. According to the California Gambling Control Commission, more than 60 compacts with tribes had been approved by the federal government as of December 31, 2007, with more than 50 of the tribes legally operating casinos in California in accordance with these compacts. Additional expansion of gaming in California could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. • The ownership and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative impact on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. For a summary of gaming regulations that affect our business, see “Regulation and Licensing.” The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. • Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations our customers reside. Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay and The Mirage are particularly affected by economic conditions in the Far East, and all of our Nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the United States, and California in particular. A recession, economic slowdown or other economic issues affecting consumers could cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. For example, the current downturn in the real estate market in Nevada, and the broader housing and credit market issues in the United States, could have a negative impact on our CityCenter joint venture’s ability to sell residential units on the Las Vegas Strip and could negatively impact our customers visitation and spending patterns. • Certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. Although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. For example, in August 2005, Hurricane Katrina caused significant damage to our Beau Rivage resort, which remained closed for a year. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Financial Statement Impact of Hurricane Katrina.” • We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy. Accordingly, increases in energy costs, such as those experienced recently, may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher energy and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. • Many of our customers travel by air. As a result, the cost and availability of air service and the impact of any events which disrupt air travel can affect our business. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. 11 Table of Contents • Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility, which can create economic and political uncertainties that could adversely impact our business levels. Furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. • Our joint venture in Macau S.A.R. involves significant risks. The operations of MGM Grand Macau, 50% owned by us, are subject to unique risks, including risks related to: (a) Macau’s regulatory framework; (b) our ability to adapt to the different regulatory and gaming environment in Macau while remaining in compliance with the requirements of the gaming regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate, as well as other applicable federal, state, or local laws in the United States and Macau; (c) potential political or economic instability; and (d) the extreme weather conditions in the region. Furthermore, such operations in Macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories are subject to risk pertaining to international operations. These may include financial risks: Foreign economy, adverse tax consequences, inability to adequately enforce our rights; or regulatory and political risks: Foreign government regulations, general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, hostilities with neighboring counties, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. • Our plans for future construction can be affected by a number of factors, including time delays in obtaining necessary governmental permits and approvals and legal challenges. We may make changes in project scope, budgets and schedules for competitive, aesthetic or other reasons, and these changes may also result from circumstances beyond our control. These circumstances include weather interference, shortages of materials and labor, work stoppages, labor disputes, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, and unanticipated cost increases. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays or cost overruns. Major expansion projects at our existing resorts can also result in disruption of our business during the construction period. • Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. It is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be affected by the resolution of these claims. We believe that the ultimate disposition of current matters will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Please see the further discussion under “Legal Proceedings.” • Tracinda Corporation beneficially owned approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. As a result, Tracinda Corporation has the ability to elect our entire Board of Directors and determine the outcome of other matters submitted to our stockholders, such as the approval of significant transactions. • A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 31,300 of our 67,400 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, in August 2007, we entered a new five-year collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 21,000 of our Las Vegas Strip employees. This does not include the collective bargaining agreement covering employees at MGM Grand Las Vegas, which expires in 2008. The new agreement is retroactive to May 31, 2007 and provides for average annual increases in wages and benefits of approximately 4%. In addition, in October 2007 we entered into a new four-year labor agreement covering approximately 2,900 employees at MGM Grand Detroit which provides for average annual increases in wages and benefits of approximately 6%. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 