ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial positions, results of operations or cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness • Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $12.3 billion of indebtedness, including $2.3 billion of borrowings outstanding under our senior credit facility, and had approximately $1.2 billion of available borrowing capacity under the senior credit facility. We have no other existing sources of borrowing availability, except to the extent we pay down further amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. We have approximately $455 million of 2011 note maturities and estimated interest payments of $969 million in 2011 based on outstanding debt as of December 31, 2010. Any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for discussion of our liquidity and financial position. In addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: - increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; - limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; - limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; - making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; and - placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors. Moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. For our owned and managed properties to remain attractive and competitive we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished, which requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Similarly, future development projects and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Events over the past several years, including the failures and near failures of financial services companies and the decrease in liquidity and available capital, have negatively affected the capital markets. • Current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments in joint ventures, such as CityCenter, depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future and our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. If adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants which we are subject to under our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2013 and 2014 and thereafter. Our ability to timely refinance and replace such indebtedness will depend upon the foregoing as well as on continued and sustained improvements in financial markets. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might 13 Table of Contents be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to note holders, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. • The agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. Covenants governing our senior credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: - pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay debt or make certain investments; - incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; - incur liens on assets; - pledge or sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; - enter into transactions with affiliates; - allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and - enter into sale and lease-back transactions. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. Any default under the senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. Risks Related to our Business • We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to effectively compete could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition results of operations and cash flow. The hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. We do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. To the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. Major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in Las Vegas and Macau. Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas, including California, has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas and elsewhere. In particular, as large scale gaming operations in Native American tribal lands has increased, particularly in California, competition has increased. In addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the U.S. and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in California. In addition to competition with other hotels, resorts, and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. • Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states, and provinces in which we operate. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, 14 Table of Contents cease operations in that jurisdiction. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. For a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see “Regulation and Licensing.” The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. Increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. Further, our directors, officers, key employees and joint venture partners must meet approval standards of certain state regulatory authorities. If state regulatory authorities were to find a person occupying any such position or a joint venture partner unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the joint venture partner may be required to dispose of their interest in the joint venture. State regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or joint venture partners to ensure compliance with applicable standards. For example, as a result of the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement (the “DGE”) investigation of our relationship with our joint venture partner in Macau we entered into a settlement agreement with the DGE under which we were required to sell our 50% ownership interest in Borgata and related leased land in Atlantic City. Certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions that we are party to also require the approval of some state regulatory authorities. In addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. For example, Illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. The likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. • Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions and business development. Economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotel and casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. In addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. Aria, Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay and The Mirage in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the Far East, and all of our Nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the United States, and California in particular. A recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. For example, the recent recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending has had a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the weak housing and real estate market — both generally and in Nevada particularly — has negatively impacted CityCenter’s ability to sell residential units. • Extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. Certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. Although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such 15 Table of Contents extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. • Because our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. Given that our major resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events which disrupt air travel to and from Las Vegas can adversely affect our business. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights into or out of Las Vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. Reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices and lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. • Investing through partnerships or joint ventures including CityCenter and MGM Macau decreases our ability to manage risk. In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, the operation of a joint venture is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. In addition, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner’s or co-venturer’s share of joint venture liabilities. For instance, CityCenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. If CityCenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our partners are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. In addition, the agreements governing the indebtedness subject CityCenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. The CityCenter amended and restated credit facility also requires CityCenter to meet an interest coverage ratio test commencing on September 30, 2012. We cannot be sure that CityCenter will be able to meet this test or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. In addition, in accordance with our joint venture agreement and the CityCenter credit facility, we provided a cost overrun guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of Circus Circus Las Vegas and certain adjacent undeveloped land. Also, the operation of MGM Macau, which is 50% owned by us, is subject to unique risks, including risks related to: (a) our ability to adapt to the different regulatory and gaming environment in Macau while remaining in compliance with the requirements of the gaming regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate, as well as other applicable federal, state, or local laws in the United States and Macau; (b) potential political or economic instability; and (c) the extreme weather conditions in the region. • Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. 16 Table of Contents • Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. Since most of our customers travel by air to our Las Vegas and Macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. • We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis. Any such credit we extend is unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. We extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. These large receivables could have a significant impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. • Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. Although we have “all risk” property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder’s risk insurance) on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. • We face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. We may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see the further discussion in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” • Tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other holders of our stock. As of December 31, 2010, Tracinda beneficially owned approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. Should Tracinda and its affiliates collectively cease to own more than 15% of our outstanding common stock, such an event will constitute a “change of control” under the indentures governing 17 Table of Contents certain of our outstanding secured notes. In that event, we would be required to offer to purchase those notes at 101% of the outstanding principal amount of those notes. In addition, Tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over us as a result of its significant ownership of our outstanding common stock. As a result, actions requiring stockholder approval that may be supported by other stockholders could be effectively blocked by Tracinda. • A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Approximately 30,000 of our 61,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations and to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. The majority of our collective bargaining agreements expire in 2012. • We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Our operations outside the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-United States laws, regulations and customs. In particular, the risks associated with the operation of MGM Macau, which is 50% owned by us, or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: - changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in Macau; - changes in non-United States government programs; - possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; - general economic conditions and policies in China, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; - difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-United States operations; - different labor regulations; - changes in environmental, health and safety laws; - potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; - political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; - economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and - uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, we are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. We are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If the United States dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our United States dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 