ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness • Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $14.1 billion of indebtedness. Giving effect to the subsequent repayment of $1.6 billion under our senior credit facility on January 4, 2010, we had $12.5 billion of indebtedness including $4.0 billion outstanding under our $5.5 billion senior credit facility. We have no other existing sources of borrowing availability, except to the extent we pay down further amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. We have approximately $1.1 billion of 2010 senior note maturities and estimated interest payments of $1.0 billion in 2010 based on outstanding debt as of December 31, 2009. Any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for discussion of our liquidity and financial position. In addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: — increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; — limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; — limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; — making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; and — placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors. 11 Table of Contents Moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. For our owned and managed properties to remain attractive and competitive we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished, which requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Similarly, future development projects and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Events over the past two years, including the failures and near failures of financial services companies and the decrease in liquidity and available capital, have negatively affected the capital markets. • Current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments in joint ventures, such as CityCenter, depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future and our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. If adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants which we are subject to under our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2010 and 2011. Our ability to timely refinance and replace such indebtedness will depend upon the foregoing as well as on continued and sustained improvements in financial markets. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to note holders, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. • The agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. Covenants governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness restrict, among other things, our ability to: — pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay debt or make certain investments; — incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; — incur liens on assets; — pledge or sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; — enter into transactions with affiliates; — allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and — enter into sale and lease-back transactions. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. Any default under the senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business • We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to effectively compete could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition results of operations and cash flow. The hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. We do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. To the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. Major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in Las Vegas and Macau. Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas, including California, has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas and elsewhere. In particular, as large scale gaming operations in Native American tribal lands has increased, particularly in California, competition has increased. In addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the U.S. and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in California. In addition to competition with other hotels, resorts, and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. • Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states, and provinces in which we operate. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. For a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see “Regulation and Licensing.” The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. Increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. As a result of the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement (the “DGE”) investigation of our relationship with our joint venture partner in Macau we are currently involved in constructive settlement discussions with the DGE under which we would agree to sell our 50% ownership interest in Borgata and related leased land in Atlantic City. If we are unable to effectuate such a settlement with the DGE, we may still be subject to action by the New Jersey Casino Control Commission related to the DGE’s report — see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” • Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions and business development. Economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotel and casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. In addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. Aria, Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay and The Mirage may be affected by economic conditions in the Far East, and all of our Nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the United States, and California in particular. 13 Table of Contents A recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. For example, the recent recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending has had a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the weak housing and real estate market— both generally and in Nevada particularly — has negatively impacted CityCenter’s ability to sell residential units. • Extreme weather conditions may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. Certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. Although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. • Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs, such as those experienced in 2007 and 2008, may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. • Because our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. Given that our major resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events which disrupt air travel to and from Las Vegas can adversely affect our business. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights into or out of Las Vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion or our visitors. Reductions in flights by major airlines, such as those implemented in 2008 and 2009 as a result of higher fuel prices and lower demand, can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. • Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. Events such as those on September 11, 2001 can create economic and political uncertainties that could adversely impact our business levels. Since most of our customers travel by air to our Las Vegas and Macau properties, any further terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. • Investing through partnerships or joint ventures including CityCenter and MGM Grand Macau decreases our ability to manage risk. In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. 14 Table of Contents Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner’s or co-venturer’s share of joint venture liabilities. For instance, if CityCenter, 50% owned and managed by us, is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our partners are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, or if CityCenter’s $1.8 billion senior secured credit facility is terminated for any reason, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. Such credit facility includes provisions limiting the amount of permitted construction liens, and also includes leverage and interest coverage covenants which will go into effect during 2011. In accordance with our joint venture agreement and the CityCenter credit facility, we provided a cost overrun guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of Circus Circus Las Vegas and certain adjacent undeveloped land. In addition, the operation of a joint venture is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. Also, the operation of MGM Grand Macau, 50% owned by us, is subject to unique risks, including risks related to: (a) Macau’s regulatory framework; (b) our ability to adapt to the different regulatory and gaming environment in Macau while remaining in compliance with the requirements of the gaming regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate, as well as other applicable federal, state, or local laws in the United States and Macau; (c) potential political or economic instability; and (d) the extreme weather conditions in the region. Furthermore, such operations in Macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories are subject to risk pertaining to international operations. These may include financial risks, such as foreign economy, adverse tax consequences, and inability to adequately enforce our rights. These may also include regulatory and political risks, such as foreign government regulations, general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, hostilities with neighboring counties, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. • Our plans for future construction can be affected by a number of factors, including time delays in obtaining necessary governmental permits and approvals and legal challenges. With respect to any development project, we may make changes in project scope, budgets and schedules for competitive, aesthetic or other reasons, and these changes may also result from circumstances beyond our control. These circumstances include weather interference, shortages of materials and labor, work stoppages, labor disputes, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, unanticipated cost increases, the existence of acceptable market conditions and demand for the completed project, changes and concessions required by governmental or regulatory authorities, and delays in obtaining, or inability to obtain, all licenses, permits and authorizations required to complete and/or operate the project. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays or cost overruns. Major expansion projects at our existing resorts may also result in disruption of our business during the construction period. Our failure to complete any new development or expansion project as planned, on schedule, within budget or in a manner that generates anticipated profits, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • We face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. We may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see the further discussion in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” 15 Table of Contents • Tracinda Corporation owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other holders of our stock. As of December 31, 2009, Tracinda Corporation beneficially owned approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock, all of which shares owned by Tracinda have been pledged under its bank credit facility. Tracinda may be required in the future, under its bank credit facility, to liquidate some or all of such pledged shares if the value of the collateral falls below a specified level. A liquidation of this nature of sufficient size may trigger a “change of control” under certain of the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness. Upon a change of control, the lenders’ obligation to make advances under our senior credit facility may be terminated at the option of the lenders. In addition, Tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over MGM MIRAGE as a result of its significant ownership of our outstanding common stock. As a result, actions requiring stockholder approval that may be supported by other stockholders could be effectively blocked by Tracinda Corporation. • A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Approximately 31,000 of our 62,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 4,000 employees at MGM Grand Las Vegas expired in 2008. We have signed an extension of such agreement and are currently negotiating a new agreement. In addition, to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 