Item 1A. Risk Factors Investments in the Corporation common stock involve risk. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Growing deposits at a rate that optimally supports loan growth requires improving the Corporation’s deposit gathering capabilities. As loan growth accelerates, the Corporation must also generate significant deposit growth. In the absence of sufficient deposit growth the Corporation will likely need to rely on higher cost borrowings to fund loan growth. A significant challenge for the future of the Corporation is recruiting and retaining top talent. In the Corporation’s competitive market, success will be determined in large part by who can hire and retain the best talent. Finding and retaining high performing employees is a particular challenge for banks in the Corporation’s core market of Central Indiana. Over the past several decades, the acquisitions of the largest banks in this market resulted in the elimination of comprehensive bank training programs in this area as their headquarters are now in other cities. At the same time, the number of banks in the market has increased. So while demand for quality bankers rose, supply diminished, causing a shortage of well-trained bankers in Indianapolis. The Corporation’s earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, including credit risk and interest rate risk. The Corporation’s business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and in Central Indiana, in particular. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, the strength of the U.S. and local economies and consumer spending, borrowing and saving habits. For example, an economic downturn, increase in unemployment, or higher interest rates could decrease the demand for loans and other products and services and/or result in a deterioration in credit quality and/or loan performance and collectability. Nonpayment of loans, if it occurs, could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Higher interest rates also could increase the Corporation’s cost to borrow funds and increase the rate the Corporation pays on deposits. 84 Table of Contents The Corporation may not be able to keep pace with advances in technology as well as its competitors. The Corporation continually encounters technological change, and it may have fewer resources than many of its competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements, which could reduce its ability to compete. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial service institutions to reduce costs. The Corporation’s future success will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Corporation’s ability to compete could be reduced if it cannot effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. The Corporation’s Consumer Finance Bank segment of operations may be adversely affected if the Bank is unable to secure adequate funding from secondary market investors or if the Bank is unable to originate sufficient volumes of consumer loans saleable into the secondary market. Both the origination and sale of its consumer loans expose the Corporation to potential liquidity risk, as well as volatility in the gains on sale of loans. The Corporation regularly sells the majority of its closed-end and line of credit home equity loan originations into the secondary market. The success of its business depends on the continued participation of investors in this market. In the third quarter of 2006, an investor which previously has purchased approximately one-half of the Corporation’s volume of loans significantly reduced loan purchases and notified us of its intent to significantly reduce future purchases of loans. The investor’s action was in response to the credit deterioration of sub-prime loans in the national marketplace. Management is currently seeking new investors to replace the resultant shortfall in sales. However, should additional secondary market sources not be found, both the liquidity and revenues attributable to these sales could decrease. Further, recent experience indicates that the market for these loans has generated lower prices and therefore lower sales margins. In response to these developments in the market, the Corporation is continuing to evaluate its Consumer Finance Bank segment in order to maintain an effective strategy going forward. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive. The Corporation operates in a highly competitive environment in the products and services the Corporation offers and the markets in which it serves. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that provide cost savings to the customer. Some of the Corporation’s competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. Additional competitors have and may enter our primary market of Indianapolis and/or acquire institution(s) in our markets and increase competition. Further, new and additional competitors may make it more difficult and expensive for the Corporation to attract and retain key employees and customers. The Corporation believes the banking and financial services industry in general will become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continued consolidation of the industry. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Also, investment banks and insurance companies are competing in more banking businesses such as syndicated lending and consumer banking. Many of the Corporation’s competitors are subject to fewer regulatory constraints and have lower cost structures. The Corporation expects the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. 85 Table of Contents The Corporation is heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. The holding company and its subsidiary bank are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers, depositors and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statues, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer, increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products and/or increasing the Corporation’s cost structures. Also, the Corporation’s failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and damage to its reputation. The Corporation is subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. In the normal course of business, the Corporation and its affiliates are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which it is engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Corporation’s favor, they could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and result of operations. Maintaining or increasing the Corporation’s market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services and other factors. The Corporation’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt in products and services to evolving industry standards and to control expenses. There is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce the Corporation’s net interest margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In addition, the Corporation’s success depends in part on its ability to generate significant levels of new business in its existing primary market of Indianapolis. Further, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including Internet-based services, could require the Corporation to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services or render the Corporation’s existing products obsolete. The Corporation may not be able to successfully introduce new products and services, achieve market acceptance of its products and services, develop and maintain loyal customers and/or break into targeted markets. The holding company relies on dividends from its bank subsidiary for most of its revenue. The holding company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its bank subsidiary. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the holding company’s common stock and interest on its debt. The payment of dividends by a subsidiary is subject to federal law restrictions as well as to the laws of the subsidiary’s state of incorporation. Also, a parent company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. The Corporation’s accounting policies and methods are the basis of how the Corporation reports its financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The Corporation’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Corporation records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s management must exercise judgment 86 Table of Contents in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in the Corporation’s reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. The Corporation has identified three accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of its financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and/or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to: (1) the allowance for loan and lease losses; (2) goodwill; (3) the valuation allowance for deferred taxes. Because of the inherent uncertainty of estimates about these matters, no assurance can be given that the application of alternative policies or methods might not result in the Corporation’s reporting materially different amounts. More information on the Corporation’s critical accounting policies is contained in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations and Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Corporation is dependent on senior management. The Corporation’s continued success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of its senior management. The loss of services of any of the Corporation’s senior executive officers could cause the Corporation’s business to suffer. In addition, the Corporation’s success depends in part upon senior management’s ability to implement the Corporation’s business strategy. The Corporation’s stock price can be volatile. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: • Actual or anticipated variations in the Corporation’s quarterly results; • New technology or services by the Corporation’s competitors; • Unanticipated losses or gains due to unexpected events, including losses or gains on securities held for investment purposes; • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Corporation or its competitors; • Changes in accounting policies or practices; or • Changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, also could cause the Corporation’s stock price to decrease regardless of its operating results. The Corporation may be a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions, which may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. The Corporation and its subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation arising out of the Corporation’s business. The Corporation’s insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against the Corporation, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm the 87 Table of Contents Corporation’s reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed the Corporation’s insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the Corporation may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may the Corporation be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 