Item 1A. Risk Factors. General Expansion Risks of New Plants and Ventures. American Dairy anticipates that its proposed expansion of its milk processing plants may include the construction of new or additional facilities. American Dairy's cost estimates and projected completion dates for construction of new production facilities may change significantly as the projects progress. In addition, American Dairy's projects will entail significant construction risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen environmental or engineering problems, weather interferences and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the projects and could delay their scheduled openings. A delay in scheduled openings will delay American Dairy's receipt of increased sales revenues. The projects of American Dairy to finance, develop, and expand its milk processing facilities will be subject to the many risks inherent in the rapid expansion of a high growth business enterprise, including unanticipated design, construction, regulatory and operating problems, and the significant risks commonly associated with implementing a marketing strategy in changing and expanding markets. There can be no assurance that any of these projects will become operational within the estimated time frames and projected budgets at the time American Dairy enters into a particular agreement, or at all. In addition, American Dairy may develop projects as joint ventures in an effort to reduce its financial commitment to individual projects. There can be no assurance that the significant expenditures required to expand its milk processing plants will ultimately result in the establishment of increased profitable operations. When American Dairy's future expansion projects become operational, American Dairy will be required to add and train personnel, expand its management information systems and control expenses. If American Dairy does not successfully address American Dairy's increased management needs or American Dairy otherwise is unable to manage its growth effectively, American Dairy's operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Uncertainty of Market Acceptance. American Dairy is currently selling its products principally in northern China. Achieving market acceptance for American Dairy's products, particularly in new markets, will require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds. There is substantial risk that any new markets may not accept or be as receptive to American Dairy's products. Market acceptance of American Dairy's current and proposed products will depend, in large part, upon the ability of American Dairy to inform potential customers that the distinctive characteristics of its products make them superior to competitive products and justify their pricing. There can be no assurance that American Dairy's current and proposed products will be accepted by consumers or that any of American Dairy's current or proposed products will be able to compete effectively against other premium or non-premium dairy products. Lack of market acceptance of American Dairy's products would have a material adverse effect on American Dairy. Risks of Changing Consumer Preferences. As is the case with other companies marketing dairy products, American Dairy is subject to changing consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns. American Dairy believes that minimal processing and the absence of preservatives, additives, artificial sweeteners or artificial flavorings increases the attractiveness of its products to consumers. American Dairy's business could be affected by certain consumer concerns about dairy products, such as the fat, cholesterol, calorie, sodium, lactose content or contamination of such products. There is a significant percentage of customers in China who are lactose intolerant, and may therefore prefer other beverages. American Dairy could become subject to increased competition from companies whose products or marketing strategies address these consumer concerns more effectively. 10 Effect of Adverse Medical Research Relating to Milk and Demand for Milk. Periodically, medical and other studies are released and announcements by medical and other groups are made which raise concerns over the healthfulness of cow's milk in the human diet. To date, American Dairy does not believe that any such studies have had a material effect on milk consumption rates in China. However, a study may be published or an announcement made concerning the healthfulness of cow's milk which may result in a decrease in demand for dairy products in China. Risks of Growth on Quality of Dairy Products. American Dairy's products are manufactured in small batches with milk from the farms of local farmers. American Dairy believes that the small batch production methods it employs and the quality of the raw milk it uses contribute to the quality of its dairy products. There can be no assurance that the quality of American Dairy's dairy products will be maintained at increased levels of production. Increased production levels may cause American Dairy to modify its current manufacturing methods and will necessitate the use of milk from other additional sources. A decline in the quality of American Dairy's products could have a material adverse effect on American Dairy's business, operations and finances. Risks Regarding Supply of Raw Milk. The raw milk used in our products is supplied to American Dairy by numerous local farms under output contracts. American Dairy believes that its farmers can increase their production of raw milk. American Dairy further believes, however, that this supply may not be sufficient to meet increased demand for its products associated with its proposed marketing efforts. American Dairy believes that the supply of raw milk from its farmers should satisfy its requirements for raw milk for at least the next 12 months. Though American Dairy believes that additional raw milk is available locally, if needed, there is no assurance that American Dairy will be able to enter into arrangements with the producers of such milk on terms acceptable to American Dairy, if at all. An inadequate supply of raw milk will have a material adverse effect on its business, operations and finances. Possible Volatility of Raw Milk Costs. The current policy of China since the mid-1990s has focused on moving the industry in a more market oriented direction. These reforms have resulted in the potential for greater price volatility relative to past periods, as prices are more responsive to the fundamental supply and demand aspects of the market. These changes in China's dairy policy could increase the risk of price volatility in the dairy industry. There can be no assurance that a significant volatility in milk prices will not occur or that any such volatility would not have a material adverse effect on its business, operations and finances. Dependence on Executives. American Dairy is highly dependent on the services of Leng You-Bin and Liu Hua, and the loss of their services would have a material adverse impact on the operations of American Dairy. They have been primarily responsible for the development of American Dairy and the development and marketing of its products. American Dairy has not applied for key-man life insurance on the lives of these executives, but may do so in the future. Competition Risks. The milk business is highly competitive and, therefore, American Dairy faces substantial competition in connection with the marketing and sale of its products. In general, milk products are price sensitive and affected by many factors beyond the control of American Dairy, including changes in consumer tastes, fluctuating commodity prices and changes in supply due to weather, production, feed costs and natural disasters. American Dairy's products compete with other premium quality dairy brands as well as less expensive, non-premium brands. American Dairy's milk faces competition from non-premium milk producers distributing milk in its marketing area; other milk producers packaging their milk in glass bottles, and other special packaging, which serve portions of its marketing area. Most of American Dairy's competitors are well established, have greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources, have been in business for longer periods of time than American Dairy, and have products that have gained wide customer acceptance in the marketplace. The largest competitors of American Dairy are state-owned dairies owned by the government of China. Large foreign milk companies have also entered the milk industry in China. The greater financial resources of such competitors will permit them to procure retail store shelf space and to implement extensive marketing and promotional programs, both generally and in direct response to advertising claims by American Dairy. The milk industry is also characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. There can be no assurance that American Dairy will be able to compete successfully or that competitors will not develop products which will have superior qualities or which will gain wider market acceptance than its products. 11 Lack of Property and General Liability Insurance. American Dairy and its subsidiaries are self-insured, and they do not carry any property insurance, general liability insurance, or any other insurance that covers the risks of their business operations. As a result, any material loss or damage to its properties or other assets, or personal injuries arising from its business operations would have a material adverse affect on its financial condition and operations. Potential Product Liability Associated with Food Products. American Dairy faces the risk of liability in connection with the sale and consumption of milk products and soybean products should the consumption of such products cause injury, illness or death. Such risks may be particularly great in a company undergoing rapid and significant growth. American Dairy currently maintains no product liability insurance. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that the level of such coverage to be acquired and maintained by American Dairy will be available in the future at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured successful claim against American Dairy could have a material adverse effect on American Dairy. Risks of Government Regulation. American Dairy is subject to extensive regulation by China's Agricultural Ministry, and by other county and local authorities in jurisdictions in which its products are processed or sold, regarding the processing, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of its products. Applicable laws and regulations governing its products may include nutritional labeling and serving size requirements. American Dairy was awarded the ISO 9002 Quality Assurance Certificate in October 2000 and is in compliance with the ISO 9002 requirements with respect to its production processes. American Dairy's processing facilities and products are subject to periodic inspection by national, county and local authorities. American Dairy believes that it is currently in substantial compliance with all material governmental laws and regulations and maintains all material permits and licenses relating to its operations. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that American Dairy will continue to be in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations, or whether American Dairy will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations. To the extent that new regulations are adopted, American Dairy will be required to conform its activities in order to comply with such regulations. Failure by American Dairy to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject American Dairy to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, operations and finances. Risks of Doing Business in China. Doing business in China involves various risks including internal and international political risks, evolving national economic policies as well as financial accounting standards, expropriation and the potential for a reversal in economic conditions. Since the late 1970s, the government of the PRC has been reforming the Chinese economic system. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress. These policies and measure may from time to time be modified or revised. Adverse changes in economic policies of the Chinese government or in the laws and regulations, if any, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, and could adversely affect our business operations. Risks of China Foreign Currecny Conversion Policies. The Chinese currency, "Renminbi", is not a freely convertible currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to support our business operations in the future. We rely on the Chinese government's foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. In China, the government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion or Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies which are required for "current account" transactions can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, the proper procedural requirements prescribed by Chinese law must be met. At the same time, Chinese companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the Chinese government. This type of heavy regulation by the Chinese government of foreign currency exchange restricts certain of our business operations and a change in any of these government policies, or any other, could further negatively impact our operations. 12 Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Chinese currency and the United States dollar could adversely affect our operating results. The functional currency of our operations in China is "Renminbi". Results of our operations are translated at average exchange rates into United States dollars for purposes of reporting results. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. Although we may use hedging techniques in the future (which we currently do not use), we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock prices. In order for the China subsidiaries of American Dairy to pay dividends to American Dairy, a conversion of Renminbi into US dollars is required. Under current Chinese law, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency generally requires government consent. Government authorities may impose restrictions that could have a negative impact in the future on the conversion process and upon the ability of American Dairy to meet its cash needs, and to pay dividends to its shareholders. However, the subsidiaries of American Dairy are presently classified as a wholly - owned foreign enterprise ("WOFE") in the PRC that have verifiable foreign investment in the PRC, funding having been made through an official PRC banking channel. Because the subsidiaries of American Dairy qualify for treatment as a WOFE, the subsidiaries can declare dividends and their funds can be repatriated to American Dairy in the United States under current laws and regulations in the PRC. Dividends. Dividends paid to American Dairy, as the U.S. parent company, would be subject to U.S. corporate income tax. American Dairy has not accrued any tax liability associated with the possible payment of dividends to the U.S. parent company. No Bank Deposit Insurance. American Dairy maintains certain bank accounts in China that are not insured and are not protected by FDIC insurance or other insurance. As of December 31, 2005, American Dairy held $206,000 of cash balances in the United States of which $106,000 was in excess of five insurance limits. Risks of Limited Trademark Protection. American Dairy has obtained trademark registrations for the use of its tradename "Feihe", which has been registered with the Trademark Bureau of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce with respect to its milk products. American Dairy believes its trademark is important to the establishment of consumer recognition of its products. However, there can be no assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection that the trademarks may offer American Dairy, that American Dairy will have the financial resources to defend the trademarks against any infringement, or that such defense will be successful. Moreover, any events or conditions that negatively impact its trademarks could have a material adverse effect on its business, operations and finances. Proprietary Knowledge and Absence of Patent Protection Risks. American Dairy has no patents covering its products or production processes and expects to rely principally on know-how and the confidentiality of its formulae and production processes for its products and its flavoring formulae in producing a competitive product line. There is no assurance that any of these factors can be maintained or that they will afford American Dairy a meaningful competitive advantage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 13 