Item 1A. Risk Factors Any negative public perception regarding our products or industry, or any ill effects or product liability claims, could harm our reputation, damage our brand, result in costly and damaging recalls, and expose us to government investigations and sanctions, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We sell products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination, spoilage and tampering. In 2008, sales in China of substandard milk formula contaminated with a substance known as melamine caused the death of six infants as well as illness of nearly 300,000 others. Although this incident did not involve any of our products, China’s Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine found that the products of 22 Chinese milk and formula producers were contaminated by melamine, a substance not approved for use in food, which caused significant negative publicity for the entire dairy industry in China. The mere publication of information asserting that our milk powder, infant formula or other products contain melamine or other contaminants could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported or concern our products or the raw materials used in our products. In addition, if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death, we may face product liability claims, product recalls, temporary or permanent suspensions of operations, government investigations or sanctions, any of which could be extremely expensive and damaging to our business. Prior to the 2008 melamine crisis, there have also been widely publicized occurrences of counterfeit, substandard milk products in China. For example, in April 2004, such sales of counterfeit and substandard infant formula in Anhui Province, China caused the deaths of 13 infants and harmed many others. Counterfeiting or imitation of our products may occur in the future, and we may not be able to detect it and deal with it effectively. Any occurrence of counterfeiting or imitation could negatively impact our corporate brand and image or consumers’ perception of our products or similar nutritional products generally, particularly if the counterfeit or imitation products cause injury or death to consumers. 11 We expect to incur costs related to our planned acquisitions and expansion into new plants and ventures which may not prove to be profitable. Moreover, any delays in our expansion plans could cause our profits to decline and jeopardize our business. We anticipate that our proposed expansion of our milk production facilities may include the acquisition and construction of new or additional facilities. Our cost estimates and projected completion dates for construction of new production facilities may change significantly as the projects progress. In addition, our projects will entail significant construction risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen environmental or engineering problems, weather interferences and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the projects and could delay their scheduled openings. A delay in scheduled openings of production facilities will delay our receipt of sales revenues from such facilities, which, when coupled with the increased costs and expenses of our expansion, could cause a decline in our profits. Our plans to finance, develop, and expand our production facilities will be subject to the many risks inherent in the rapid expansion of a high growth business enterprise, including unanticipated design, construction, regulatory and operating problems, and the significant risks commonly associated with implementing a marketing strategy in changing and expanding markets. These projects may not become operational within their estimated time frames and budgets as projected at the time we enter into a particular agreement, or at all. In addition, we may develop projects as joint ventures in an effort to reduce our financial commitment to individual projects. The significant expenditures required to expand our production plants may not ultimately result in increased profits. When our future expansion projects become operational, we will be required to add and train personnel, expand our management information systems and control expenses. If we do not successfully address our increased management needs or are otherwise unable to manage our growth effectively, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As we increase the scale of our operations, we may be unable to maintain the level of quality we currently attain by producing our products in small batches. Our products are manufactured in small batches with milk from the farms of local farmers. We may be unable to maintain the quality of our dairy products at increased levels of production. Increased production levels may cause us to modify our current manufacturing methods and will necessitate the use of milk from other additional sources. A decline in the quality of our products could damage our business, operations and finances. Our products may not achieve market acceptance. We are currently selling our products principally in northern, central, and eastern China. Achieving market acceptance for our products, particularly in new markets, will require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds. There is substantial risk that any new markets may not accept or be as receptive to our products. In addition, we intend to market our products as premium and super-premium products and to adopt a corresponding pricing model, which may not be accepted in new or existing markets. Market acceptance of our current and proposed products will depend, in large part, upon our ability to inform potential customers that the distinctive characteristics of our products make them superior to competitive products and justify their pricing. Our current and proposed products may not be accepted by consumers or able to compete effectively against other premium or non-premium dairy products. Lack of market acceptance would limit our revenues and profitability. Our planned growth may require more raw milk than is available and could diminish the quality of our dairy products. Our business requires a supply of raw milk. Our growth will be limited if the supply of raw milk is insufficient to meet demand. Moreover, as we attempt to implement our growth strategy, it may become difficult to maintain current levels of quality control. Inadequate quality control could harm our reputation and the demand for our products, which would also limit our growth. The raw milk used in our products is supplied to us by numerous local farms under output contracts. We believe that our farmers can increase their production of raw milk. We further believe, however, that this supply may not be sufficient to meet increased demand for our products associated with our proposed marketing efforts and that such increase may compromise quality. Though we believe that additional raw milk is available locally, if needed, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with the producers of such milk on terms acceptable to us, if at all. An inadequate supply of raw milk, coupled with concern over quality control, could increase costs for raw milk or decrease the sales price for our products, which could limit our ability to grow, cause our earnings to decline and make our business less profitable. 12 Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in availability and price of raw materials. The raw materials we use are subject to price fluctuations due to various factors beyond our control, including, among other pertinent factors: · increasing market demand; · inflation; · severe climatic and environmental conditions; · seasonal factors, with dairy cows generally producing more milk in temperate weather as opposed to cold or hot weather and extended unseasonably cold or hot weather potentially leading to lower than expected production; · commodity price fluctuations; · currency fluctuations; and · changes in governmental and agricultural regulations and programs. For example, our raw milk cost increased by approximately 45% in 2007 due to various factors, including, we believe, rising production costs. We also expect that our raw material prices will continue to fluctuate and be affected by inflation in the future. Changes to our raw materials prices may result in increases in production and packaging costs, and we may be unable to raise the prices of our products to offset the increase costs in the short-term or at all. As a result, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to public company reporting and other requirements for which we will incur substantial costs and our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. We incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. For example, laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, and rules related to corporate governance and other matters subsequently adopted by the SEC and the NYSE Arca, result in substantial costs to us, including legal and accounting costs, and may divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. Compliance with Section 404 of SOX requires that our management annually assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and that our independent auditors report on management’s assessment. During our review of our financial statements and results for the year ended December 31, 2007, and following our termination of our prior auditors and the re-audit of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, our management identified several internal control matters that constitute material weaknesses and significant deficiencies and, consequently, has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2007, December 31, 2008, or March 30, 2009. Our independent registered public accountants noted several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting but, due to limitations on the scope of their engagement, were not able to perform auditing procedures necessary to form an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In addition, management has concluded, based primarily on the identification of the material weaknesses and significant deficiencies, that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at March 30, 2009. See “Part II—Item 9A—Controls and Procedures.” Material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting related to financial statement review procedures, accounting treatment for routine and non-routine transactions, our internal audit function, and our untimely assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting related to period-end closing procedures, access to administrative and accounting systems, documentation of accounts receivable transfers and promoters expenses, and division of treasury and accounting duties. 13 A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the registrant’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by the company’s internal controls. A “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the registrant’s financial reporting. A “deficiency” in internal control over financial reporting exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. We are devoting significant resources to remediating and improving our internal controls, including hiring additional accounting, internal audit and finance staff, engaging consultants to assist with these functions, upgrading our systems, and implementing additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. These measures may not ensure the adequacy of our internal controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we are unable to remediate successfully these material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in a timely manner, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price, limit our ability to access the capital markets in the future, and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. We significantly depend on our management team. Each of our executive officers is responsible for an important aspect of our operations. In addition, we rely on management and senior personnel to ensure that our sourcing, production, sales, distribution and other business functions are effective. Losing the services of our executive officers or key personnel could be detrimental to our operations. We do not have key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers or other employees. Investors may not be able to enforce judgments entered by United States courts against certain of our officers and directors. We are incorporated in the State of Utah. However, a majority of our directors and executive officers, and certain of our principal shareholders, live outside of the U.S., principally in China. As a result, you may not be able to effect service of process upon those persons within the U.S. or enforce against those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts. We face substantial competition in connection with the marketing and sale of our products. Our products compete with other premium quality dairy brands as well as less expensive, non-premium brands. Our products face competition from non-premium producers distributing in our marketing area and other producers packaging their products in our marketing area. Most of our competitors are well established, have greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources and have products that have gained wide customer acceptance in the marketplace. Our largest competitors are state-owned dairies owned by the government of China. Large foreign companies have also entered the dairy industry in China. The greater financial resources of such competitors will permit them to procure retail store shelf space and to implement extensive marketing and promotional programs, both generally and in direct response to advertising efforts by us. The dairy industry is also characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. We may be unable to compete successfully or our competitors may develop products which have superior qualities or gain wider market acceptance than ours. 14 We face the potential risk of product liability associated with food products. We face the risk of liability in connection with the sale and consumption of dairy products and soybean products should the consumption of such products cause injury, illness or death. Such risks may be particularly great in a company undergoing rapid and significant growth. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, diversion of management resources and require us to make significant payments and incur substantial legal expenses. We do not currently maintain product liability insurance. Any insurance that we may obtain in the future may be insufficient to cover potential claims or the level of insurance coverage needed may be unavailable at a reasonable cost. Even if a product liability claim is not successfully pursued to judgment by a claimant, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim and our brand image and reputation would suffer. Finally, serious product quality concerns could result in governmental action against us, which, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses, or other governmental penalties, including possible criminal liability. Doing business in China involves various political and economic risks. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the higher level of government involvement and regulation; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; · the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · government control over the allocation of many resources. As China’s economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the government of China has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall economy of China, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the government of China has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of consumer spending in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. 15 Regulations affecting acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may make it more difficult for us to complete acquisitions and grow our business. In 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public notice, known as “Circular 75,” concerning the application of foreign exchange regulations to mergers and acquisitions involving foreign investment in China. Among other things, the public notice provides that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the relevant foreign exchange authorities. Under Circular 75, if an acquisition of a PRC company by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents occurred prior to the issuance of Circular 75, certain PRC residents were required to submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch to register their ownership interests in the offshore company before March 31, 2006. Such PRC residents must also amend the registration form if there is a material event affecting the offshore company, such as, among other things, a change to the company’s share capital, a transfer of shares, or if the company is involved in a merger, an acquisition or a spin-off transaction or uses its assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. As there is still significant uncertainty in China regarding the interpretation and implementation of Circular 75, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our future acquisition strategy and business operations. For example, if we decide to acquire additional PRC companies, we or the owners of such companies may not be able to complete the filings and registrations, if any, required by the SAFE notices. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, in 2006 six PRC regulatory authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce and the PRC Securities Regulatory Commission, jointly promulgated a rule entitled “Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors,” or the New M&A Rules, in September 2006. The New M&A Rules establish additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including, in some circumstances, advance notice to the Ministry of Commerce of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. Compliance with the New M&A Rules, and any related approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Extensive regulation of the food processing and distribution industry in China could increase our expenses resulting in reduced profits. We are subject to extensive regulation by China’s Agricultural Ministry, and by other provincial and local authorities in jurisdictions in which our products are processed or sold, regarding the processing, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of our products. Applicable laws and regulations governing our products may include nutritional labeling and serving size requirements. Our processing facilities and products are subject to periodic inspection by national, provincial and local authorities. We believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with all material governmental laws and regulations and maintain all material permits and licenses relating to our operations. Nevertheless, we may fall out of substantial compliance with current laws and regulations or may be unable to comply with any future laws and regulations. To the extent that new regulations are adopted, we will be required, possibly at considerable expense, to adjust our activities in order to comply with such regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and finances. 16 The PRC government’s recent measures to curb inflation rates could adversely affect future results of operations. China has faced rising inflation in recent years. In April 2008, the change in China’s Consumer Price Index increased to 8.5% according to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, or the NBS. Recently, the government of China undertook various measures to alleviate the effects of inflation, especially with respect to key commodities. On January 16, 2008, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission announced national price controls on various products, including milk. Similarly, the government of China may conclude that the prices of infant formula or other of our products are too high and may institute price controls that would limit our ability to set prices for our products as we might wish. The government of China has also encouraged local governments to institute price controls on similar products. Such price controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and, accordingly, the price of our common stock. The PRC currency is not a freely convertible currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to support our business operations in the future. The PRC currency, the “Renminbi” or “RMB,” is not a freely convertible currency. We rely on the PRC government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. In China, the government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies that are required for current account transactions can be bought freely at authorized PRC banks, the proper procedural requirements prescribed by PRC law must be met. At the same time, PRC companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized PRC banks and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the PRC government. This substantial regulation by the PRC government of foreign currency exchange may restrict our business operations and a change in any of these government policies could negatively impact our operations, which could result in a loss of profits. In order for our China subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, a conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars is required, which, if not permitted by the PRC government, would cause an interruption in our operating cash flow. Under current PRC law, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency generally requires government consent. Government authorities may impose restrictions that could have a negative impact in the future on the conversion process and upon our ability to meet our cash needs and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Although, our subsidiaries’ classification as wholly foreign-owned enterprises, or WFOEs, under PRC law permits them to declare dividends and repatriate their funds to us in the United States, any change in this status or the regulations permitting such repatriation could prevent them from doing so. Any inability to repatriate funds to us would in turn prevent payments of dividends to our shareholders. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the PRC currency and the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our operating results. The functional currency of our operations in China is the Renminbi. However, results of our operations are translated at average exchange rates into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting results. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. We do not currently use hedging techniques, and any hedging techniques which we may use in the future, may not be able to eliminate and may exacerbate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could cause our profits, and therefore our stock prices, to decline. 17 Under the New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China, which would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under China’s Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, which became effective in 2008, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. Under the implementing rules of the New EIT Law, de facto management means substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties of the enterprise. Because the New EIT Law and its implementing rules are new, no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that American Dairy, Inc. is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” such dividends may be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2008 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to tax in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. In addition, we have not accrued any tax liability associated with the possible payment of dividends to our U.S. parent company. Such a tax would be an added expense appearing on our income statement, which would reduce our net income. We do not intend to pay and may be restricted from paying dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings to fund our continued growth. Furthermore, if we decide to pay dividends, foreign exchange and other regulations in China may restrict our ability to distribute retained earnings from China or convert those payments from Renminbi into foreign currencies. Lack of bank deposit insurance puts our funds at risk of loss from bank foreclosures or insolvencies. We maintain certain bank accounts in China that are not protected by FDIC insurance or other insurance. As of December 31, 2007, we held approximately $11.0 million in bank accounts in China. If a PRC bank holding our funds experienced insolvency, it may not permit us to withdraw our funds, which would result in a loss of such funds and reduction of our net assets. 18 Limited and uncertain trademark protection in China makes the ownership and use of our trademark uncertain. We have obtained trademark registrations for the use of our trade name “Feihe” as well as our “Fei Fan” and “Fei Rui” brands, which have been registered with the PRC Trademark Bureau of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce with respect to our milk products. We believe our trademark is important to the establishment of consumer recognition of our products. However, due to uncertainties in PRC trademark law, the protection afforded by our trademark may be less than we currently expect and may, in fact, be insufficient. Moreover, even if it is sufficient, in the event it is challenged or infringed, we may not have the financial resources to defend it against any challenge or infringement and such defense could in any event be unsuccessful. Moreover, any events or conditions that negatively impact our trademark could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and finances. Our lack of patent protection could permit our competitors to copy our trade secrets and formula and thus gain a competitive advantage. We have no patents covering our products or production processes, and we expect to rely principally on know-how and the confidentiality of our formula and production processes for our products and our flavoring formula in producing competitive product lines. Any breach of confidentiality by our executives or employees having access to our formula could result in our competitors gaining access to such formula. The ensuing competitive disadvantage could reduce our revenues and our profits. One of our shareholders owns a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over our affairs. Leng You-Bin, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, and General Manager, beneficially owned approximately 51.6% of our common stock as of March 15, 2009. Our executive officers and directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 54.3% of our common stock as of March 15, 2009. Consequently, these individuals will likely be able to determine the composition of our board of directors, retain the voting power to approve certain matters requiring shareholder approval and continue to have significant influence over our operations. The interests of these shareholders may be different than the interests of other shareholders on these matters. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. Failure to comply with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. Since we are a Utah corporation and a public company in the United States, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Non-U.S. companies, including some that may compete with our company, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur in China. Although such practices are prohibited at our company, our employees or other agents may engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which may limit our operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2007 we had approximately $152.4 million of total liabilities, which included approximately $98.2 million of outstanding principal on our 7.75% Convertible Notes due 2009, or the 2009 Notes, and our 1.00% Guaranteed Senior Secured Convertible Notes due 2012, or the 2012 Notes. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: · it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; · our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or general corporate or other purposes may be impaired; · a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; · it may cause our trade creditors to change their terms for payment on goods and services provided to us, thereby negatively impacting our ability to receive products and services on acceptable terms; · it may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and · we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, may be limited in our ability to respond to competitive pressures and may have reduced flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. Our ability to pay interest on and to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, dependent upon economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt obligations, we will need to refinance our existing debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our existing indebtedness and funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements may not be available on satisfactory terms, if at all. The covenants in the indentures governing our 2012 Notes restrict our ability to operate our business and our failure to comply with them could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have issued an aggregate principal amount of $80.0 million in 2012 Notes. The indentures under which the 2012 Notes were issued contain covenants restricting our operations, including restrictions on: · our use and maintenance of our properties; · incurrence of indebtedness; · declaring or paying dividends or other distributions; · repurchasing our capital stock or subordinated obligations; · making investments; · incurring liens; · selling assets; · our use of the proceeds from the sale of the 2012 Notes; and · our engaging in business unrelated to dairy and related food products. 20 The indentures also require us to maintain tangible net worth ratios, to complete a qualifying initial public offering of our common stock by December 1, 2008, to repurchase some or all of our 2012 Notes from electing holders upon certain assets sales, upon certain change of control transactions or if our common stock ceases to trade on a qualifying U.S. stock exchange, and to file reports under the Exchange Act with the SEC. In addition, the outstanding 2012 Notes will accrue additional interest at an annual rate of 5.0% if a qualifying initial public offering has not occurred by December 1, 2008, and we will also be obligated to pay an additional amount equal to 3.0% of the principal amount of the outstanding 2012 Notes if a qualifying initial public offering has not occurred by December 1, 2008 and an additional amount equal to 1.0% of the principal amount of the outstanding 2012 Notes if we fail to retain a qualified auditor at any time after May 1, 2008. Although we have entered into a supplemental indenture pursuant to which we have obtained waivers and consents to from the holders of the 2012 Notes, those waivers and consents are limited in scope and are conditioned on events, including our timely making required repurchase payments, that we may not be able to satisfy. Our failure to comply with the restrictions on our operations and other requirements under our indentures could constitute an event of default, subject us to litigation, and have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outstanding Indebtedness—1.00% Senior Secured Convertible Notes Due 2012” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outstanding Indebtedness—Restructuring of 2012 Notes.” Our failure to repurchase the 2012 Notes pursuant to the supplemental indenture could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Pursuant to the supplemental indenture with respect to the 2012 Notes, holders of 100% of the outstanding 2012 Notes elected to exercise the early repurchase option with respect to all of the outstanding 2012 Notes, which obligates us to repurchase the 2012 Notes for an aggregate amount of $92.0 million in accordance with the terms and conditions of the supplemental indenture. Accordingly, we have paid $15,333,333 to the holders of the 2012 Notes, $13,333,333 of which represented repayment of principal, and we are obligated to pay an additional $15,333,333 by each of April 15 and July 15, 2009 and to pay the remaining $46.0 million by October 15, 2009. We may not have adequate cash on hand or generate sufficient cash flows to make the repurchase payments and, even if we do, making such payments could substantially impair our liquidity and capital resources. Additional financing sufficient to make the repurchase payments may not be available on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we do not make the required repurchase payments on April 15, 2009, July 15, 2009 or October 15, 2009, the waivers granted to us under the supplemental indenture will terminate, which will restrict our business operations, the 2012 Notes will recommence accruing interest, which will adversely affect our business and financial condition, and the holders of the 2012 Notes could exercise their conversion rights under the indentures, which may result in substantial dilution. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outstanding Indebtedness—Restructuring of 2012 Notes.” We may face significant penalties if we are unable to file and maintain registration statements in compliance with our agreements. In connection the issuances of with our 2009 Notes, we have granted demand, piggy-back and S-3 registration rights. The amended registration rights agreement requires us to pay additional interest, accruing at 1.0% of the principal amount of each holder’s 2009 Notes per month, if: · we fail to file a registration statement by January 3, 2007, · we fail to file a registration statement by the three month anniversary of any demand registration notice, · sales of all registrable securities cannot be made pursuant to the registration statement, · our common stock ceases to be listed or traded in qualifying exchanges or markets, · a qualifying initial public offering has not occurred on or before June 30, 2009, · we fail to keep public information available, · we fail to file in a timely manner all reports and other documents we are required to file with the SEC, or · we fail to maintain our Exchange Act registration. 21 Although the holders of our 2009 Notes have agreed that we will only be obligated to make additional interest payments to them if a registration statement is not effective by June 30, 2009 or if we are unable to timely comply with our reporting and filing obligation under the Exchange Act by April 15, 2009, we may be unable to meet these deadlines, which would expose us to substantial future penalties. Furthermore, under the indentures governing our 2012 Notes, we are required to pay: · an additional amount equal to 3.0% of the principal amount of the outstanding 2012 Notes if a qualifying initial public offering has not occurred by December 1, 2008, and · additional interest accruing at an annual rate of 0.25% for the first 90 days, and thereafter at an annual rate of 0.5%, if, within 90 days of our eligibility to do so, we fail to file a shelf registration statement for the 2012 Notes, the guarantees of the 2012 Notes, and any shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2012 Notes, or if such a shelf registration statements does not become effective within 180 days our eligibility to make such a filing. Although the holders of our 2012 Notes have waived these additional payment and interest obligations, the waiver provides that these obligations will recommence if we do not make the required 2012 Note repurchase payments pursuant to the supplemental indenture. If we are unable to make the repurchase payments and to comply with the public offering and registration statement requirements, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outstanding Indebtedness—Restructuring of 2009 Notes” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outstanding Indebtedness—Restructuring of 2012 Notes.” We are at risk of securities litigation. We are at risk of being subject to securities litigation, including possible enforcement action or class action lawsuits. The SEC has notified us of an informal investigation related to our former independent registered public accountants. While we believe that the primary focus of the investigation is not related to our business or management, but rather to the independence of our former auditors, the SEC may expand the focus of its investigation or pursue action against us. Following notification of the investigation, we dismissed our former auditors, sued former auditors, engaged new independent registered public accountants, and commenced a re-audit of historical financial statements. Accordingly, we have been unable to file Exchange Act reports. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies who have been unable to provide current public information. Such litigation is complex and could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, and seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The statements included in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, expectations, strategies, intentions or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and are generally identified by the words “may,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “could,” “would,” and similar expressions. Because these forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, our actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us on the date hereof. Our business and the associated risks may have changed since the date this report was originally filed with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 