Item 1A. Risk Factors. General We expect to incur costs related to our planned expansion and growth into new plants and ventures which may not prove to be profitable. Moreover, any delays in our expansion plans could cause our profits to decline and jeopardize our business. We anticipate that our proposed expansion of our milk processing plants may include the construction of new or additional facilities. American Dairy’s cost estimates and projected completion dates for construction of new production facilities may change significantly as the projects progress. In addition, American Dairy’s projects will entail significant construction risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen environmental or engineering problems, weather interferences and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the projects and could delay their scheduled openings. A delay in scheduled openings will delay American Dairy’s receipt of increased sales revenues, which, when coupled with the increased costs and expenses of our expansion, could cause a decline in our profits. Our plans to finance, develop, and expand American Dairy’s milk processing facilities will be subject to the many risks inherent in the rapid expansion of a high growth business enterprise, including unanticipated design, construction, regulatory and operating problems, and the significant risks commonly associated with implementing a marketing strategy in changing and expanding markets. These projects may not become operational within their estimated time frames and budgets as projected at the time American Dairy enters into a particular agreement, or at all. In addition, American Dairy may develop projects as joint ventures in an effort to reduce its financial commitment to individual projects. The significant expenditures required to expand our milk processing plants may not ultimately result in increased profits. When our future expansion projects become operational, American Dairy will be required to add and train personnel, expand our management information systems and control expenses. If we do not successfully address American Dairy’s increased management needs or are otherwise unable to manage our growth effectively, American Dairy’s operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our products may not achieve market acceptance. We are currently selling our products principally in northern China. Achieving market acceptance for American Dairy’s products, particularly in new markets, will require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds. There is substantial risk that any new markets may not accept or be as receptive to our products. Market acceptance of our current and proposed products will depend, in large part, upon our ability to inform potential customers that the distinctive characteristics of our products make them superior to competitive products and justify their pricing. Our current and proposed products may not be accepted by consumers or able to compete effectively against other premium or non-premium dairy products. Lack of market acceptance would limit our revenues and profitability. Changing consumer preferences make demand for our products unpredictable. American Dairy is subject to changing consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns. Our business could be affected by certain consumer concerns about dairy products, such as the fat, cholesterol, calorie, sodium and lactose content or contamination of such products. A significant percentage of customers in China are lactose intolerant, and may therefore prefer other beverages. American Dairy could become subject to increased competition from companies whose products or marketing strategies address these consumer concerns more effectively. Adverse medical research relating to milk and demand for milk could decrease the demand for our products. Periodically, medical and other studies are released and announcements by medical and other groups are made which raise concerns over the healthfulness of cow’s milk in the human diet. A study may be published or an announcement made concerning the healthfulness of cow’s milk which may result in a decrease in demand for dairy products in China. Our planned growth may require more raw milk than is available and could diminish the quality of our dairy products. The supply of raw milk may be insufficient to meet demand which would limit our growth. Moreover, as we attempt to implement our growth strategy, it may become difficult to maintain current levels of quality control. Thus, concerns over quality control could also limit our growth. The raw milk used in our products is supplied to American Dairy by numerous local farms under output contracts. We believe that our farmers can increase their 9 production of raw milk. We further believe, however, that this supply may not be sufficient to meet increased demand for our products associated with our proposed marketing efforts and that such increase may compromise quality. Though we believe that additional raw milk is available locally, if needed, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with the producers of such milk on terms acceptable to American Dairy, if at all. An inadequate supply of raw milk, coupled with concern over quality control, could limit our ability to grow, cause our earnings to decline and make our business less profitable. Possible volatility of raw milk costs makes our operating results difficult to predict, and a steep cost increase could cause our profits to diminish significantly. The current policy of China since the mid-1990s has focused on moving the industry in a more market-oriented direction. These reforms have resulted in the potential for greater price volatility relative to past periods, as prices are more responsive to the fundamental supply and demand aspects of the market. These changes in China’s dairy policy could increase the risk of price volatility in the dairy industry, making our net income difficult to predict. Also, if prices are allowed to escalate sharply, our costs will rise which will lead to a decrease in profits. The loss of any of our key executives could cause an interruption of our business and an increase in our expenses if we are forced to recruit a replacement; we have no key-man life insurance covering these executives. American Dairy is highly dependent on the services of Leng You-Bin and Liu Hua, and the loss of their services would have a material adverse impact on our operations. These individuals have been primarily responsible for the development of American Dairy and the development and marketing of our products. American Dairy has not applied for key-man life insurance on the lives of these executives but may do so in the future. The milk business is highly competitive and, therefore, we face substantial competition in connection with the marketing and sale of our products. In general, milk products are price sensitive and affected by many factors beyond our control, including changes in consumer tastes, fluctuating commodity prices and changes in supply due to weather, production, feed costs and natural disasters. Our products compete with other premium quality dairy brands as well as less expensive, non-premium brands. American Dairy’s milk faces competition from non-premium milk producers distributing milk in our marketing area and other milk producers packaging their milk in glass bottles and other special packaging which serve portions of our marketing area. Most of our competitors are well established, have greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources, have been in business for longer periods of time than American Dairy, and have products that have gained wide customer acceptance in the marketplace. The largest competitors of American Dairy are state-owned dairies owned by the government of China. Large foreign milk companies have also entered the milk industry in China. The greater financial resources of such competitors will permit them to procure retail store shelf space and to implement extensive marketing and promotional programs, both generally and in direct response to advertising claims by American Dairy. The milk industry is also characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. We may be unable to compete successfully or our competitors may develop products which have superior qualities or gain wider market acceptance than ours. Lack of property and general liability insurance expose American Dairy to the risk of loss of our property as well as liability risks in the event of litigation against our company. American Dairy and its subsidiaries do not carry any property insurance, general liability insurance, or any other insurance that covers the risks of our business operations. As a result, any material loss or damage to our properties or other assets could lead to an increase in costs to replace or repair lost or damaged property and, possibly, a decline in revenues from lost use of the lost or damaged property. Also, personal injuries arising from our business operations, could significantly increase our costs for attorneys’ fees as well as the payment of any damages arising out of the litigation. Any of the above would cause lost profits. As we increase the scale of our operations, we may be unable to maintain the level of quality we currently attain by producing our products in small batches. Our products are manufactured in small batches with milk from the farms of local farmers. We may be unable to maintain the quality of our dairy products at increased levels of production. Increased production levels may cause American Dairy to modify its current manufacturing methods and will necessitate the use of milk from other additional sources. A decline in the quality of our products could damage American Dairy’s business, operations and finances. 10 We face the potential risk of product liability associated with food products. American Dairy faces the risk of liability in connection with the sale and consumption of milk products and soybean products should the consumption of such products cause injury, illness or death. Such risks may be particularly great in a company undergoing rapid and significant growth. American Dairy currently maintains no product liability insurance. Any insurance which we may obtain in the future may be insufficient to cover potential claims or the level of insurance coverage needed may be unavailable at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured successful claim against American Dairy would drive up our costs to defend such claim or pay damages and could cause reputational damage which would hurt our revenues. Either of these results would in turn reduce our profitability. Doing business in China involves various risks including internal and international political risks, evolving national economic policies as well as financial accounting standards, expropriation and the potential for a reversal in economic conditions. Since the late 1970s, the government of the PRC has been reforming the Chinese economic system. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress. These policies and measures may from time to time be modified or revised. Adverse changes in economic policies of the Chinese government or in the laws and regulations, if any, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, and could adversely affect our business operations. Extensive regulation of the food processing and distribution industry in China could increase our expenses resulting in reduced profits. American Dairy is subject to extensive regulation by China’s Agricultural Ministry, and by other county and local authorities in jurisdictions in which its products are processed or sold, regarding the processing, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of our products. Applicable laws and regulations governing our products may include nutritional labeling and serving size requirements. Our processing facilities and products are subject to periodic inspection by national, county and local authorities. We believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with all material governmental laws and regulations and maintain all material permits and licenses relating to our operations. Nevertheless, we may fall out of substantial compliance with current laws and regulations or may be unable to comply with any future laws and regulations. To the extent that new regulations are adopted, American Dairy will be required to conform its activities in order to comply with such regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject American Dairy to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and finances. The Chinese currency, “Renminbi”, is not a freely convertible currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to support our business operations in the future. We rely on the Chinese government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. In China, the government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies which are required for “current account” transactions can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, the proper procedural requirements prescribed by Chinese law must be met. At the same time, Chinese companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the Chinese government. This type of heavy regulation by the Chinese government of foreign currency exchange restricts certain of our business operations and a change in any of these government policies, or any other, could further negatively impact our operations which could result in a loss of profits. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Chinese currency and the United States dollar could adversely affect our operating results. The functional currency of our operations in China is “Renminbi”. However, results of our operations are translated at average exchange rates into United States dollars for purposes of reporting results. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. Although we may use hedging techniques in the future (which we currently do not use), we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could cause our profits, and therefore our stock prices, to decline. 11 In order for our China subsidiaries to pay dividends to American Dairy, a conversion of Renminbi into US dollars is required which, if we were not allowed to do by the Chinese government, would cause an interruption in our operating cash flow. Under current Chinese law, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency generally requires government consent. Government authorities may impose restrictions that could have a negative impact in the future on the conversion process and upon the ability of American Dairy to meet its cash needs and to pay dividends to its shareholders. Although, our subsidiaries’ classification as wholly-owned foreign enterprises (“WOFEs”) under Chinese law permits them to declare dividends and repatriate their funds to American Dairy in the United States, any change in this status or the regulations permitting such repatriation could prevent them from doing so. Any inability to repatriate funds to American Dairy would in turn prevent payments of dividends to our shareholders. Dividends paid to American Dairy, as the U.S. parent company, would be subject to U.S. corporate income tax. American Dairy has not accrued any tax liability associated with the possible payment of dividends to the U.S. parent company. Such a tax would be an added expense appearing on our balance sheet which would reduce our net income. Lack of bank deposit insurance puts our funds at risk of loss from bank foreclosures or insolvencies. American Dairy maintains certain bank accounts in China that are not insured and are not protected by FDIC insurance or other insurance. As of December 31, 2006, American Dairy held $37,126,918 in bank accounts in China. If a Chinese bank holding our funds experienced insolvency, it may not permit us to withdraw our funds which would result in a loss of such funds and reduction of our net assets. Limited and uncertain trademark protection in China makes the ownership and use of our trademark uncertain. American Dairy has obtained trademark registrations for the use of our tradename “Feihe”, which has been registered with the Trademark Bureau of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce with respect to our milk products. We believe our trademark is important to the establishment of consumer recognition of our products. However, due to uncertainties in Chinese trademark law, the protection afforded by our trademark may be less than we currently expect and may, in fact, be insufficient. Moreover even if it is sufficient, in the event it is challenged or infringed, we may not have the financial resources to defend it against any challenge or infringement and such defense could in any event be unsuccessful. Moreover, any events or conditions that negatively impact our trademark could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and finances. Our lack of patent protection could permit our competitors to copy our trade secrets and formulae and thus gain a competitive advantage. American Dairy has no patents covering our products or production processes, and we expect to rely principally on know-how and the confidentiality of our formulae and production processes for our products and our flavoring formulae in producing competitive product lines. Any breach of confidentiality by our executives or employees having access to our formulae could result in our competitors gaining access to such formulae. The ensuing competitive disadvantage could reduce our revenues and our profits. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may”, “expect”, “plans”, “intends”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate” and “continue” or similar words and are intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition or state other “forward-looking” information. American Dairy believes that it is important to communicate our future expectations to our investors. However, there may be events in the future that American Dairy is not able to accurately predict or control. The factors listed above in the section captioned “Risk Factors”, as well as any cautionary language in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause American Dairy’s actual results to differ materially from the expectations American Dairy describes in our forward-looking statements. Before you invest in the common stock, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described as risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 13 