ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the adverse events described in the following factors actually occur or we do not accomplish necessary events or objectives described in the factors, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline and shareholders could lose all or part of their investments. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. We may continue to experience net losses from operations. We have experienced net losses in each quarter since inception, with net losses of approximately $12.7 million from inception through December 31, 2005, and we are uncertain when, or if, we will experience net income from operations. Even if we do experience net income in one or more calendar quarters in the future, subsequent developments in our industry, customer base, business or cost structure or expenses associated with significant litigation or a significant transaction may cause us to again experience net losses. We may never become profitable. The market for Internet broadcasting and streaming services may not grow at a pace that permits us to continue to grow. The market for Internet broadcasting and streaming services is relatively new and evolving. As a result, we cannot be certain that a viable market for our services will be sustainable. Factors that may inhibit the growth of the market for Internet broadcasting services include: l Our customers may be unwilling to broadcast over the Internet because of issues related to protection of copyrights, royalty payments to artists and publishers, illegal copying and distribution of data, and other intellectual property rights issues. l Consumers may decide not to acquire high speed connectivity to the Internet at rates sufficient to support the continued growth of Internet broadcasting. l Consumers may determine not to view or listen to media broadcasts over the Internet because of, among other factors, poor reception of electronic broadcasts or the creation or expansion of competing technologies, such as television beaming or interactive cable, that provide a similar service at lower cost or with better features. l Customers that use the Internet to broadcast presentations or meetings may determine that alternative means of communications are more effective or less expensive. l New laws and regulations may negatively affect consumers' and businesses' use of the Internet, thereby reducing demand. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] If the market for Internet broadcasting services does not continue to grow, or grows more slowly than expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be seriously harmed. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers and may be unable to find alternative suppliers on reasonable terms, or at all. We rely on other companies to provide licensing arrangements and supply key components of our network infrastructure, including Internet bandwidth, which constitutes our largest direct cost of providing services, and networking equipment. Additionally, we rely on third-party development of technology to provide media-related functionality, such as streaming media formats and payment processing. We do not have long-term agreements governing the supply of many of these services or technologies, and most are available from only limited sources. For example, the majority of our revenue is dependent on technology licensed from two vendors, Adobe Systems Incorporated and Microsoft Corporation. We may be unable to continue to obtain needed services or licenses for needed technologies on commercially reasonable terms, including cost (or, in some cases, at all), which would adversely affect our business, fin ancial condition and results of operations. We may acquire businesses or assets, or enter into other business combination transactions, that may be difficult to integrate. As part of our growth strategy we established PlayStream, Inc. to acquire all of the assets of PlayStream, LLC (now Easy Link, LLC), located in Seattle, Washington in 2005. In the future, we expect to enter into additional transactions to acquire other companies or a substantial portion of their assets, or to combine our business with theirs. These acquisitions or business combinations involve numerous risks, including the following possibilities: l that the combined entity will not perform as well as the separate businesses performed prior to the transaction; l that anticipated cost savings, cross-marketing to new customers or other anticipated synergies will not be achieved; l that management resources will be diverted towards negotiations and effecting the acquisition and then integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, instead of focusing on our existing business; l that the stock and other consideration paid in the transaction will exceed the value of the assets or business acquired; l that the use of cash as consideration for the transaction will reduce cash that may be needed for operations below necessary levels; l that we may be assuming potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business; and l that if we do not consummate such a transaction, we will have expended substantial costs and resources without achieving the anticipated benefit. Acquisitions or business combinations (or attempted transactions) could have an adverse, rather than a positive, effect on our business, operations and financial results. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure a financing agreement and have agreed to certain limitations on our business operations. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure a bank financing arrangement with Comerica Bank. Under governing security agreements, we grant Comerica Bank rights and remedies that are commonly provided a secured creditor, including the right to seize and dispose of all pledged assets following a default. Related agreements also contain restrictive covenants related to our future operations. These include covenants that prohibit, or place limitations, on our ability to enter into merger or consolidation transactions, pay dividends, create additional indebtedness or make certain investments. We may be unable to manage significant growth. In order to successfully implement our business strategy, we must establish and achieve substantial growth in our customer base through sales, business acquisitions or a combination thereof. If achieved, significant growth would place significant demands on our management, systems of financial and internal controls and network infrastructure. It would also almost certainly require an increase in the capacity, efficiency and accuracy of our billing and customer support systems. Moreover, significant growth would require an increase in the number of our personnel, particularly within sales and marketing, customer service and technical support. The market for such personnel remains highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel required by our business strategy. If successful in attracting new customers, we may outgrow our present facilities and/or network capac ity, placing additional strains on our human resources in trying to locate, manage and staff multiple locations and to scale our network. There are numerous risks associated with having Dolphin and WaldenVC as significant stockholders. Through their holdings of common stock, affiliates of Dolphin Equity Partners presently control 12,760,458 votes in connection with the election of directors and other matters, 15% of the voting power of our company, and affiliates of WaldenVC presently control 13,223,836 votes in connection with the election of directors and other matters, representing approximately 16% of the voting power of our company. Each of Dolphin Equity Partners and WaldenVC also have contractual rights effectively assuring each of them a seat on our board of directors. As a result of their stock holdings and board seats, Dolphin or WaldenVC may be able to block, or extract concessions or special benefits in connection with, various transactions, including any future merger or asset sale transactions. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully against existing or future competitors of our businesses. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, an increasingly competitive market. Our current and future competitors in Internet streaming may include other digital content delivery providers, Internet broadcast network specialty providers and alternative access providers such as various cable television companies, direct broadcast satellite, DSL, telecommunication companies, wireless communications providers and other established media companies. Our current and future competitors in hosting and colocation may include other Internet hosting, colocation and access businesses, including such major providers as Savvis and AT&T, and essentially any other participant in the Internet industry. Many of these competitors have a longer operating history and greater market presence, brand recognition, engineering and marketing capabilities, and financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. Competitors with an extended operating history, a strong financial position and an established reputation have an inherent marketing advantage because of the reluctance of many potential customers to entrust key operations to a company that may be perceived as unproven or unstable. In addition, our competitors may be able to use their extensive resources: l to develop and deploy new products and services more quickly and effectively than we can; l to improve and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly than we can; l to reduce costs, particularly bandwidth costs, because of discounts associated with large volume purchases; l to offer less expensive streaming, hosting, colocation and related services as a result of a lower cost structure, greater capital reserves or otherwise; l to adapt more swiftly and completely to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; l to offer bundles of related services that we are unable to offer; l to take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily; and l to devote greater resources to the marketing and sales of their products. If we are unable to compete effectively in our various markets, or if competitive pressures place downward pressure on the prices at which we offer our services, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] Our services are subject to potential liability from system failure and security risks. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our network infrastructure against interruptions, damages and other events that may adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers (on a short-term or long-term basis) and may lead to lawsuits, contingent liabilities and harm to our reputation. Despite the implementation of precautions, the core of our network infrastructure is vulnerable to various potential problems, including the following: l Our network infrastructure, or that of our key suppliers, may be damaged or destroyed, and our ability to provide service interrupted or eliminated, by natural disasters, such as fires, earthquakes and floods, or by power losses, telecommunications failures and similar events beyond our control. This risk is increased by the concentration of our servers and infrastructure, and that of our key suppliers, in a natural disaster and power failure prone area in Southern California. l We and our users may experience interruptions in service as a result of the accidental or malicious actions of Internet users, hackers, or current or former employees. l We and our users may experience interruptions in service as a result of our suppliers, particularly suppliers of electricity and bandwidth, to perform their contractual obligations. l Unauthorized access to our network and servers may jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems and our customers' computer systems, which may result in liability to our customers and also may deter potential customers. l We may face liability for transmitting viruses to third parties that damage or impair their access to computer networks, programs, data or information. Eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers. l Failure of our systems including hardware and software or that of our suppliers may disrupt service to our customers (and from our customers to their customers), which could materially impact our operations (and the operations of our customers) and adversely affect our relationships with our customers and lead to lawsuits and contingent liability. The occurrence of any natural disaster (including earthquakes), power outage, unauthorized access, computer virus, equipment failure or other disruptive problem could result in claims for consequential and other damages, significant repair and recovery expenses and extensive customer losses and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] The network architecture and data tracking technology underlying our services is complex and may contain unknown errors in design or implementation that could result in incorrect billings to our customers. The network architecture and data tracking technology underlying our streaming and hosting services is complex and includes software and code used to generate customer invoices. This software and code is either developed internally or licensed from third parties. Any of the system architecture, system administration, software or code may contain errors, or may be implemented or interpreted incorrectly, particularly when they are first introduced or when new versions or enhancements to our services are released. In addition, with respect to certain usage-based billing, the data used to bill the customer for usage is an estimate, based upon complex formulas or algorithms. We or the customer may subsequently believe that such formulas or algorithms overstate or understate actual usage. In any such case, a design or application error could cause overbilling or underbilling of our customers, which may: l adversely impact our relationship with those customers and others, possibly leading to a loss of affected and unaffected customers; l lead to billing disputes and related legal fees, and diversion of management resources; l increase our costs related to product development; and/or l adversely affect our revenues and expenses, either prospectively or retrospectively. Our continued growth could be adversely affected by the loss of several key customers. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, three unrelated customers accounted for an aggregate of 36% of our revenues. Several additional customers accounted for between 5% and 10% of our revenues. Our agreements with many of these key customers expire in any given year unless renewed by the customer, are terminable at any time upon short-term notice, or are otherwise terminable during 2006. Decisions by one or more of these key customers to not renew, terminate, or substantially reduce, their use of our services could substantially slow our revenue growth and even lead to a decline in revenue. Our business plan assumes continued growth in revenue, and it is unlikely that we could become profitable if our revenue were to cease growing. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] We are dependent upon key personnel who may leave at any time and may be unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We are highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team. To the extent our principal managers are parties to employment agreements, such agreements are terminable at will. Although our principal managers have significant equity interests or options to purchase equity interests in the company, such options to purchase equity interests are substantially vested (except with respect to our Chief Executive Officer). In addition, none of the shares held by, or issuable upon the exercise of options held by, our principal managers is subject to repurchase rights and may be retained whether or not such persons remain with the company. The loss of the services of key management personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may become subject to risks associated with international operations. We plan to expand our marketing efforts in foreign countries, which may involve the establishment of one or more data centers or other bases of operations outside of the United States. The establishment or expansion of foreign operations involves numerous risks, including without limitation: l we may incur losses solely as a result of the fluctuation of the value of the dollar, as most of our costs will continue to be denominated in U.S. dollars while our revenues may increasingly be denominated in other currencies; l we may incur significant costs in order to comply with, or obtain intellectual property protection under, the laws of foreign countries, and even then, foreign courts or other tribunals may decline to honor our intellectual property rights, may not enforce our contracts as written and may impose restrictions, taxes, fines and other penalties that exceed those that would generally be imposed under U.S. laws; l we may be the target of anti-U.S. politically motivated actions, including boycotts, sabotage, violence, nationalization of resources or discrimination; l costs and risks associated with management and internal controls may increase as our employees and assets are located outside of the southern California region; l as our overseas revenues, and dependence on such revenues expands, we may become increasingly subject not only to economic cycles in the U.S. but also to cycles in other nations, which may be more variable that those in the U.S.; l we may be subject to tariffs, export controls or other trade barriers; and l we may experience difficulties in collecting delinquent accounts receivable [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] We may be unable to keep up with evolving industry standards and changing user needs. The market for Internet media-related services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changing user needs and frequent new service and product introductions. Our success will depend in part on our ability to identify, obtain authorized access to and use third party-provided technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical capabilities, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services to meet changing user needs in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, new industry standards have the potential to replace, or provide lower-cost alternatives to, our services. The adoption of such new industry standards could render our existing services obsolete and unmarketable or require reduction in the fees charged. Any failure on our part to identify, adopt and use new technologies effectively, to develop our technical capabilities, to deve lop new services or to enhance existing services in a timely and cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur significant costs to effectively comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and may be unable to comply in a timely manner. We are subject to the regulatory requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are a smaller company relative to other public companies. As such, the costs to comply with these extensive requirements may impact us in a disproportionate manner. In addition, we may not be able to comply with the requirements by the applicable deadline. Either or both of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] Increases in government regulation may have an adverse effect on our business. The services provided by telecommunications carriers are governed by regulatory policies establishing charges and terms for wireline communications. We are not a telecommunications carrier or otherwise subject to regulations governing telecommunications carriers (or the obligation to pay access charges and contribute to the universal service fund). The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) could, however, expand the reach of telecommunications regulations so as to apply to companies such as ours. In particular, the FCC could require Internet service providers like us to pay access charges or to contribute to the universal service fund when the Internet service provider provides its own transmission facilities and engages in data transport over those facilities in order to provide an information service. The resultant increase in cost could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial co ndition and results of operations. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, and in particular the increasing use of streaming media in markets such as wireless communications, we expect that federal, state or foreign legislatures and agencies may adopt laws and regulations affecting our business or our customers, including laws or regulations potentially imposing taxes or other fees on us or our customers, imposing reporting, tracking or other costly reporting requirements or imposing restrictions or standards on us or our customers related to issues such as user privacy, pricing, content and quality of products and services. Such laws and regulations may significantly increase our costs of operations, may expose us to liability or may limit the services we can offer, or may impose similar burdens on our customers, which in turn may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the protection of our intellectual property is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our technology, and our business may suffer. We depend on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, trade secrets, and common law copyright and trademark principles. Protection of our intellectual property is subject to the following risks: l we have not applied for a copyright registration or patent with respect to our proprietary rights, and the common law associated with copyrights and trade secrets affords only limited protection; l our claims of proprietary ownership (and related common law copyright assertions) may be challenged or otherwise fail to provide us with the ability to prevent otherwise from copying our technology; l our existing or any future trademarks may be canceled or otherwise fail to provide meaningful protection; and l the validity, enforceability and type of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our products and technology exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Third party claims that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights could be costly to defend or settle. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the Internet and software industries. We expect that Internet technologies and software products and services may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. We may from time to time encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property that we developed ourselves or that we license from third parties. Third parties may bring claims of infringement against us, which may be with or without merit. We could be required, as a result of an intellectual property dispute, to do one or more of the following: l cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that rely upon the disputed intellectual property; l obtain from the holder of the intellectual property right a license to sell or use the disputed intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms; l redesign products or services that incorporate disputed intellectual property; or l pay monetary damages to the holder of the intellectual property right. The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources or could severely limit the services we can offer, which could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have agreed, and may agree in the future, to indemnify certain of our customers against claims that our products or services infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against infringement claims and ultimately be required to pay substantial monetary damages in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us. In the event of a claim of infringement, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We, or our customers, may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost, or at all. Defense of any lawsuit and payment of any damages, or failure to obtain any such required licenses, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] Trading in our common stock is thin, and there is a limit to the liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The volume of trading in our common stock is relatively small, and trading in our common stock is likely dominated by a few individuals. Because of the thinness of the market for our stock, the price of our common stock may be subject to manipulation by one or more stockholders and may increase or decrease significantly because of buying or selling by a single stockholder. In addition, the limited volume of trading limits significantly the number of shares that one can purchase or sell in a short period of time. Consequently, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of large numbers of shares of our common stock or to obtain a fair price for our common stock in the market. The market price for our common stock is volatile and may change dramatically at any time. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other early stage companies, may be highly volatile. Our stock price may change dramatically as the result of announcements of our quarterly results, new products or innovations by us or our competitors, the execution or termination of significant customer contracts, significant litigation or other factors or events that would be expected to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and other factors specific to our business and future prospects. In addition, the market price for our common stock may be affected by various factors not directly related to our business, including the following: l intentional manipulation of our stock price by existing or future stockholders; l a single acquisition or disposition, or several related acquisitions or dispositions, of a large number of our shares; l the interest of the market in our business sector, without regard to our financial condition or results of operations; l the adoption of governmental regulations and similar developments in the United States or abroad that may affect our ability to offer our products and services or affect our cost structure; l disputes relating to patents or other significant intellectual property rights held by others that we, our suppliers or our customers use; l new product offerings or other business developments announced by our competitors; l developments in the businesses of companies that use our streaming or hosting services (such as the expansion or contraction of the use of the Internet to stream to deliver music or other media); and l economic and other external market factors, such as a general decline in market prices due to poor economic indicators or investor distrust. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] Our ability to issue preferred stock and common stock may significantly dilute ownership and voting power, negatively affect the price of our common stock and inhibit hostile takeovers. Under our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, we are authorized to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock and 290 million shares of common stock without seeking stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the authority to create various series of preferred stock with such voting and other rights superior to those of our common stock and to issue such stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors also has the authority to issue the remainder of our authorized shares of common stock without stockholder approval. Any issuance of such preferred stock or common stock would dilute the ownership and voting power of existing holders of our common stock and may have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval may also be used by management to stop or delay a change of control, or might discourage third parties f rom seeking a change of control of our company, even though some stockholders or potential investors may view possible takeover attempts as potentially beneficial to our stockholders. Because certain existing stockholders own a large percentage of our voting shares, other stockholders' voting power may be limited. Our executive officers, directors, their affiliates and other 5% stockholders collectively own or control approximately 48% of the voting power of our company. As a result, if such persons act together, they have the ability to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. These stockholders may make decisions that are benefits themselves at the expense of stockholders generally. We have not declared any dividends with respect to our common stock. We have not declared any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain earnings, if any, to finance the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, restrictive covenants in our financings agreements with Comerica Bank presently prohibit our paying dividends without the consent of Comerica Bank. [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] We are subject to certain provisions of the California corporate code. Because we are a Nevada corporation, the rights of our stockholders are generally governed by the Nevada Private Corporations Law. However, under Section 2115(a) of the California Corporations Code, we became subject to various sections of the California Corporations Code on January 1, 2004 and will continue to be subject to such conditions until the year after fewer than one-half of our outstanding voting securities (held by other than nominee holders) are held by persons located in California. Although the applicable portions of the California Corporations Code are generally consistent with governing provisions of the Nevada Private Corporations Law and our charter documents, they are not identical. We may be faced with circumstances in which applicable provisions of the Nevada Private Corporations Law or our charter documents cannot be reconciled to governing provisions of the California Corpora tions Code. The existence of such a conflict may adversely affect our business and operations in various ways in that it may require us to withdraw from a proposed transaction; seek authorizations, interpretations, injunctions or other orders from various courts in connection with a conflict; rescind or re-execute a transaction or pay damages if our good faith attempts at reconciliation are deemed inadequate or incur additional expenses in order to attempt compliance with both governing laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None [ TABLE OF CONTENTS ] 