Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report before purchasing our common stock. If any of the following events were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose some or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and/or cash flow. Any negative public perception regarding our products or industry, or any ill effects or product liability claims, could harm our reputation, damage our brand, result in costly and damaging recalls, and expose us to government investigations and sanctions, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 11 We sell products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination, spoilage and tampering. In 2008, sales in China of substandard milk formula contaminated with a substance known as melamine caused the death of six infants as well as illness of nearly 300,000 others. In 2009 and 2010, new incidents of substandard milk formula contaminated with melamine and hydrolyzed leather protein also occurred in China. Although our products were not involved in these incidents, China’s Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine found that the products of at least 22 Chinese milk and formula producers were contaminated by melamine, a substance not approved for use in food, which caused significant negative publicity for the entire dairy industry in China. Furthermore, in 2010 there were widely publicized claims that certain Chinese infant formula products were linked to precocious puberty in female infants. While governmental authorities concluded these claims were false, the operations of the companies involved were adversely effected. The mere publication of information asserting that our milk powder, infant formula or other products contain melamine or other contaminants or have harmful health effects could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported or concern our products or the raw materials used in our products. In addition, if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death, we may face product liability claims, product recalls, temporary or permanent suspensions of operations, government investigations or sanctions, any of which could be extremely expensive and damaging to our business. Prior to the 2008 melamine crisis, there have also been widely publicized occurrences of counterfeit, substandard milk products in China. For example, in April 2004, such sales of counterfeit and substandard infant formula in Anhui Province, China caused the deaths of 13 infants and harmed many others. Counterfeiting or imitation of our products may occur in the future, and we may not be able to detect it and deal with it effectively. Any occurrence of counterfeiting or imitation could negatively impact our corporate brand and image or consumers’ perception of our products or similar nutritional products generally, particularly if the counterfeit or imitation products cause injury or death to consumers. Our products may not achieve market acceptance. We are currently selling our products principally in northern, central, and eastern China. Achieving market acceptance for our products, particularly in new markets, will require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds. There is substantial risk that any new markets may not accept or be as receptive to our products. In addition, we market our products as premium and super-premium products and have adopted a corresponding pricing model, which may not be accepted in new or existing markets. Market acceptance of our current and proposed products will depend, in large part, upon our ability to inform potential customers that the distinctive characteristics of our products make them superior to competitive products and justify their pricing. Our current and proposed products may not be accepted by consumers or able to compete effectively against other premium or non-premium dairy products. Lack of market acceptance would limit our revenues. We have recently incurred operating losses, which may have a harmful effect on the value of our common stock. In the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred a net loss of approximately $9.9 million, primarily attributable to a decrease in revenue, an increase in cost of goods sold, and an increase in operating expenses. Under-producing cows at our company-owned dairy farms contributed to increased operating expenses. We recognized a loss on disposal of cows of approximately $10.2 million in 2010. If our revenue does not grow as expected or if we fail to control and improve the effectiveness of our expenditures, including expenses associated with managing our dairy farms, we may not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability on a consistent basis. Our lack of profitability may have an adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and on our cash flow and liquidity. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm contains a reference raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” Because of our deficiency of net current assets as of and significant net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, we may not have sufficient cash to fund our expected cash flow requirements for the next 12 months including the maturity of our short-term loans, redemption of our redeemable common stock and planned capital expenditures. Therefore, our independent registered public accounting firm has included a reference in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 referring to substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a “going concern.” As of and for the year ended December 31, 2010, we had net loss of approximately $9.9 million and deficiency of net current assets of approximately $59.3 million, with short-term loans of approximately $68.8 million that mature in the next 12 months and redeemable common stock of $63 million expected to be redeemed in the upcoming fiscal year. While we believe we will be able to refinance much of our short-term bank loans when they become due and that our cash generated from operations, along with existing cash and our ability to draw down on unutilized credit lines, will be sufficient to fund our expected cash flow requirements for at least the next 12 months, including the redemption of our redeemable common stock and planned capital expenditures. Our belief may be mistaken. Substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern could affect our relationships with suppliers or customers. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., our balance sheet generally states the book value of our assets, which does not necessarily represent the value that could be realized from the assets if we could not continue as a going concern. Our planned growth may require more raw milk than is available and could diminish the quality of our dairy products. Our business requires a supply of raw milk. Our growth will be limited if the supply of raw milk is insufficient to meet demand. Moreover, as we attempt to implement our growth strategy, it may become difficult to maintain current levels of quality control. Inadequate quality control could harm our reputation and the demand for our products, which would also limit our growth. A significant amount of the raw milk used in our products is supplied to us by numerous local farms under output contracts. We believe that our farmers can increase their production of raw milk. We further believe, however, that this supply may not be sufficient to meet increased demand for our products associated with our proposed marketing efforts and that such increase may compromise quality. Though we believe that additional raw milk is available locally, if needed, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with the producers of such milk on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our efforts to source milk through our company-owned dairy farms are new, may involve unforeseen difficulties, and may not supply the quantity of raw milk we need to maintain and expand our levels of production. An inadequate supply of raw milk, coupled with concern over quality control, could increase costs for raw milk or decrease the sales price for our products, which could limit our ability to grow, cause our earnings to decline and make our business unable to become profitable. 12 The recent global economic and financial market crisis could significantly impact our financial condition. Current global economic conditions could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Economic activity in China, the United States and throughout much of the world has undergone significant economic downturns following the housing crisis in the real estate and credit markets in both the United States and Europe, as well as natural disasters and related concerns in Asia. Market disruptions have included extreme volatility in securities prices, as well as severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. The economic crisis may adversely affect us in a variety of ways. Access to lines of credit or the capital markets may be severely restricted, which may preclude us from raising funds required for operations and to fund continued expansion. It may be more difficult for us to complete strategic transactions with third parties. The financial and credit market turmoil could also negatively impact our suppliers and customers, which could decrease our ability to source, produce and distribute our products and could decrease demand for our products. While it is not possible to predict with certainty the duration or severity of the current disruption in financial and credit markets, if economic conditions continue to worsen, it is possible these factors could significantly impact our financial condition. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in availability and price of raw materials. The raw materials we use are subject to price fluctuations due to various factors beyond our control, including, among other pertinent factors: · increasing market demand; · inflation; · severe climatic and environmental conditions; · seasonal factors, with dairy cows generally producing more milk in temperate weather as opposed to cold or hot weather and extended unseasonably cold or hot weather potentially leading to lower than expected production; · commodity price fluctuations; · currency fluctuations; and · changes in governmental and agricultural regulations and programs. For example, our external raw milk unit purchase cost increased by approximately 24% in 2010 due to various factors, including, we believe, general economic conditions, such as inflation and fuel prices, and rising production costs due to various other factors, including increased competition abroad and currency appreciation. We also expect that our raw material prices will continue to fluctuate and be affected by all of these factors in the future. Changes to our raw materials prices may result in increases in production and packaging costs, and we may be unable to raise the prices of our products to offset such increases in the short term or at all. As a result, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 13 We are subject to public company reporting and other requirements for which we will incur substantial costs and our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. We incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. For example, laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, and rules related to corporate governance and other matters subsequently adopted by the SEC and the NYSE, result in substantial costs to us, including legal and accounting costs, and may divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We have historically identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remediate the material weaknesses or maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. We and our independent registered public accounting firm, in connection with the audit of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, have identified the following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting: There was insufficient accounting personnel with appropriate knowledge of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have taken measures and plan to continue to take measures to remedy this material weakness. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to address any control deficiency could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares, may be materially and adversely affected. We significantly depend on our management team. Each of our executive officers is responsible for an important aspect of our operations. In addition, we rely on management and senior personnel to ensure that our sourcing, production, sales, distribution and other business functions are effective. Losing the services of our executive officers or key personnel could be detrimental to our operations. We do not have key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers or other employees. Investors may not be able to enforce judgments entered by United States courts against certain of our officers and directors. We are incorporated in the State of Utah. However, a majority of our directors and executive officers, and certain of our principal shareholders, live outside of the U.S., principally in China. As a result, you may not be able to effect service of process upon those persons within the U.S. or enforce against those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts. We face substantial competition in connection with the marketing and sale of our products. Our products compete with other premium quality dairy brands as well as less expensive, non-premium brands. Our products face competition from non-premium producers distributing in our marketing area and other producers packaging their products in our marketing area. Many of our competitors are well established, have greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources, have more established distribution channels into major markets, and have products that have gained wide customer acceptance in the marketplace. Our largest competitors are multi-national dairy companies owned by the government of China. The greater financial resources of such competitors will permit them to procure retail store shelf space and to implement extensive marketing and promotional programs, both generally and in direct response to advertising efforts by us. The dairy industry in China is also characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns, such as large discounts to distributors. In addition, distributors in China often engage in cross-territory selling activities, which involves their diversion of products into different geographic regions, which can disrupt the price of our products and adversely impact our revenues. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors in some or all of our markets, and our competitors may develop products which have superior qualities or gain wider market acceptance than ours. 14 We expect to incur costs related to expansion into new plants and ventures, which may not prove to be profitable. Moreover, any delays in our expansion plans could cause adversely impact our results of operations and jeopardize our business. We anticipate that any proposed expansion of our milk production facilities may include the acquisition and construction of new or additional facilities. Our cost estimates and projected completion dates for construction of new production facilities may change significantly as the projects progress. In addition, projects could entail significant construction risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen environmental or engineering problems, weather interferences and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the projects and could delay their scheduled openings. A delay in scheduled openings of production facilities could delay our receipt of sales revenues from such facilities, which, when coupled with the increased costs and expenses of our expansion, could prevent us from becoming profitable. Our plans to finance, develop, and expand our production facilities could be subject to the many risks inherent in the rapid expansion of a high growth business enterprise, including unanticipated design, construction, regulatory and operating problems, and the significant risks commonly associated with implementing a marketing strategy in changing and expanding markets. These projects may not become operational within their estimated time frames and budgets as projected at the time we enter into a particular agreement, or at all. In addition, we may develop projects as joint ventures in an effort to reduce our financial commitment to individual projects. The significant expenditures required to expand our production plants may not ultimately prove to be profitable. When our future expansion projects become operational, we will be required to add and train personnel, expand our management information systems and control expenses. If we do not successfully address our increased management needs or are otherwise unable to manage our growth effectively, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We face the potential risk of product liability associated with food products. We face the risk of liability in connection with the sale and consumption of dairy products and other products should the consumption of such products cause injury, illness or death. Such risks may be particularly great in a company undergoing rapid and significant growth. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, divert management resources and require us to make significant payments and incur substantial legal expenses. We do not currently maintain product liability insurance. Any insurance that we may obtain in the future may be insufficient to cover potential claims or the level of insurance coverage needed may be unavailable at a reasonable cost. Even if a product liability claim is not successfully pursued to judgment by a claimant, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim and our brand image and reputation would suffer. Finally, serious product quality concerns could result in governmental action against us, which, among other things, could result in mandatory recalls of our products, the suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses, or other governmental penalties, including possible criminal liability. Doing business in China involves various political and economic risks. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: 15 · the higher level of government involvement and regulation; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; · the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · government control over the allocation of many resources. As China’s economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the government of China has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall economy of China, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the government of China has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of consumer spending in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Extensive regulation of the food processing and distribution industry in China could increase our expenses and make us unable to become profitable. We are subject to extensive regulation by China’s Agricultural Ministry, and by other provincial and local authorities in jurisdictions in which our products are processed or sold, regarding the processing, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of our products. For instance, in June 2009, regulatory requirements became effective in China requiring new package labeling for dairy products, which we believe impacted our sales cycles during the three months ended June 30, 2009. Additional labeling requirements became effective in June 2010 for all dairy products. Such requirements may have rapid implementation dates, require significant planning or expense, and have an adverse impact on our sales, inventory levels, or packing and distribution. Other applicable laws and regulations governing our products may include nutritional labeling and serving size requirements. Our processing facilities and products are subject to periodic inspection by national, provincial and local authorities. For instance, in 2010, AQSIQ announced a nationwide renewal inspection for all infant manufacturing facilities. In March 2011, we successfully renewed our manufacturing license. Nevertheless, we may fall out of substantial compliance with current laws and regulations or may be unable to comply with any future laws and regulations. To the extent that new regulations are adopted, we will be required, possibly at considerable expense, to adjust our activities in order to comply with such regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and finances. Regulations affecting acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may make it more difficult for us to complete acquisitions and grow our business. In 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public notice, known as “Circular 75,” concerning the application of foreign exchange regulations to mergers and acquisitions involving foreign investment in China. Among other things, the public notice provides that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the relevant foreign exchange authorities. Under Circular 75, if an acquisition of a PRC company by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents occurred prior to the issuance of Circular 75, certain PRC residents were required to submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch to register their ownership interests in the offshore company before March 31, 2006. Such PRC residents must also amend the registration form if there is a material event affecting the offshore company, such as, among other things, a change of the company’s share capital, a transfer of shares, or if the company is involved in a merger, an acquisition or a spin-off transaction or uses its assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. In the past, we have acquired a number of assets from, or equity interests in, PRC companies. 16 There is still significant uncertainty in China regarding the interpretation and implementation of Circular 75. Nevertheless, we have requested that our shareholders who are PRC residents make the necessary applications, filings and amendments that required under Circular 75 and related regulations. However, all of our PRC-resident shareholders may not comply with such requirements. We also cannot predict how these regulations will affect our future acquisition strategy and business operations. For example, if we decide to acquire additional PRC companies, we or the owners of such companies may not be able to complete the filings and registrations, if any, required by the SAFE notices. Failure to complete Circular 75 registrations may limit the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to issue dividends to us, limit our ability to inject additional capital into our subsidiaries, restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, in 2006 six PRC regulatory authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce and the PRC Securities Regulatory Commission, jointly promulgated a rule entitled “Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors,” or the M&A Rules, in September 2006. The M&A Rules establish additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including, in some circumstances, advance notice to the Ministry of Commerce of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. Compliance with the M&A Rules, and any related approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Furthermore, in August 2008, SAFE issued a notice, known as “Circular 142,” regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into PRC currency, the Reminbi or RMB, by restricting the uses for the converted RMB. Circular 142 requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company denominated in RMB but converted from a foreign currency may only be used pursuant to the purposes set forth in the foreign-invested company’s business scope as approved by the applicable governmental authority. Such registered capital may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company that was denominated in RMB but converted from foreign currency. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including significant fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to invest in or acquire other PRC companies using the RMB-denominated capital of our PRC subsidiaries. The PRC government’s recent measures to curb inflation rates could adversely affect future results of operations. China has faced rising inflation in recent years. The government of China undertook various measures to alleviate the effects of inflation, especially with respect to key commodities. In January 2008, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission announced national price controls on various products, including milk. Similarly, the government of China may conclude that the prices of infant formula or other of our products are too high and may institute price controls that would limit our ability to set prices for our products as we might wish. The government of China has also encouraged local governments to institute price controls on similar products. Such price controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and, accordingly, the price of our common stock. 17 Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, has been based on exchange rates set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi solely to the U.S. dollar. Under this revised policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow range against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated significantly since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. On June 20, 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced that the PRC government will further reform the Renminbi exchange rate regime and enhance the Renminbi exchange rate flexibility. It is difficult to predict how this new policy may impact the Renminbi exchange rate going forward. Significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. If we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China, which would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules, which became effective in 2008, an enterprise established outside of China with a “de facto management body” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. Under the implementing rules of the EIT Law, de facto management means substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties of the enterprise. Because the EIT Law and its implementing rules are still new and there is limited guidance regarding tax residency determinations, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that Feihe International, Inc. is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. We may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” such dividends may be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. In addition, it is possible that the “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. 18 If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to tax in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be fully creditable against our U.S. tax. Lack of bank deposit insurance puts our funds at risk of loss from bank foreclosures or insolvencies. We maintain certain bank accounts in China that are not protected by FDIC insurance or other insurance. As of December 31, 2010, we held approximately $17.5 million in bank accounts in China. If a PRC bank holding our funds experienced insolvency, it may not permit us to withdraw our funds, which would result in a loss of such funds and reduction of our net assets. As of December 31, 2010, we held approximately $65,000 of cash balances within the United States, of which $ nil was in excess of FDIC insurance limits, and exposes us to risk of loss of such funds and a resulting reduction of our net assets. Limited and uncertain trademark protection in China makes the ownership and use of our trademark uncertain. We rely principally on trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary product formulations and production processes. We have obtained trademark registrations for the use of our trade name “Feihe,” as well as our “Xingfeifan” “Feifan,” “Feihui,” “Feirui,” “Feiyue,” and “Beidiqi” Chinese brands and our “Firmus,” “Astrobaby” and “Babyrich” English brand names, which have been registered with the PRC Trademark Bureau of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce with respect to our milk products. We have obtained trademark registrations for the use of our trade name “Feihe” and “Firmus,” which have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We believe our trademark is important to the establishment of consumer recognition of our products. However, due to uncertainties in PRC trademark law, the protection afforded by our trademark may be less than we currently expect and may, in fact, be insufficient. In the event any of our trademarks are challenged or infringed, we may not have the financial resources to defend against the challenge or infringement and such defense could in any event be unsuccessful. Moreover, any events or conditions that negatively impact our trademark could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and finances. Our lack of patent protection could permit our competitors to copy our trade secrets and formula and thus gain a competitive advantage. We have no patents covering our products or production processes, and we expect to rely principally on know-how and the confidentiality of our formula and production processes for our products and our flavoring formula in producing competitive product lines. Any breach of confidentiality by our executives or employees having access to our formula could result in our competitors gaining access to such formula. The ensuing competitive disadvantage could reduce our revenues and adversely impact our results of operations. One of our shareholders owns a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over our affairs. Leng You-Bin, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, and General Manager, beneficially owned approximately 40% of our common stock as of March 25, 2011. Consequently, Mr. Leng will likely be able to determine the composition of our board of directors, to approve certain matters requiring shareholder approval and to have significant influence over our operations. Mr. Leng’s interests may be different than the interests of other shareholders on these matters. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. 19 Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. Since we are a Utah corporation and a public company in the United States, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Non-U.S. companies, including some that may compete with our company, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur in China. Although such practices are prohibited at our company, our employees or other agents may engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which may limit our operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $106.7 million of bank loans. In addition, we expect to redeem our redeemable common stock for an aggregate amount of $63 million plus interest (see “—The terms of our agreements with the Purchasers may have adverse impacts on us.”). Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: · it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; · our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or general corporate or other purposes may be impaired; · a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; · it may cause our trade creditors to change their terms for payment on goods and services provided to us, thereby negatively impacting our ability to receive products and services on acceptable terms; · it may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and · we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, may be limited in our ability to respond to competitive pressures and may have reduced flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. Our ability to pay interest on and to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, dependent upon economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt obligations, we will need to refinance our existing debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our existing indebtedness and funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements may not be available on satisfactory terms, if at all. The terms of our agreements with the Purchasers may have adverse impacts on us. In August 2009, pursuant to a subscription agreement, we issued 2,100,000 shares of our common stock to Sequoia Capital China Growth Fund I, L.P. and certain of its affiliates, or the Purchasers, for an aggregate purchase price of $63.0 million. Because we did not meet certain earnings per share targets for 2009, we issued 525,000 additional shares to the Purchasers pursuant to the subscription agreement. In February 2011, we entered into a redemption agreement with the Purchasers to redeem and purchase from the Purchasers the 2,625,000 shares issued pursuant to the subscription agreement in four equal installments on or around March 31, 2011, September 30, 2011, December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012, for an aggregate payment on each such date of $15,750,000, together with interest accruing at the rate of 1.5% per annum, compounded annually from August 27, 2009 until such date. This redemption could significantly impact our liquidity and capital resources. 20 We are at risk of securities litigation. We are at risk of being subject to securities litigation, including possible enforcement action or class action lawsuits. Following notification by the SEC in 2007 of an informal investigation related to our former independent registered public accountants, we dismissed our former auditors, sued our former auditors, engaged new independent registered public accountants, commenced a re-audit of historical financial statements, and restated our financial statements as of and for our fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006. Accordingly, we were unable to file Exchange Act reports for 2007 and 2008 in a timely manner. In addition, we have restated our quarterly financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 to reclassify certain items from operating activities to investing activities, and we have amended our Form 10-K for the 2008 fiscal year to restate items in our statements of cash flows and to revise the note to our financial statements regarding quarterly operating results. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies who have been unable to provide current public information or who have restated previously filed financial statements. Such litigation is complex and could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, and seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 