Item 1A: Risk Factors If you are interested in making an investment in Cavalier, you should carefully consider the following risk factors concerning our business, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 6 Table of Contents Our industry suffers from a lack of third-party financing, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if additional third-party financing for the purchases of our homes does not become available. Third-party lenders generally provide consumer financing for manufactured home purchases. Our sales depend in large part on the availability and cost of financing for manufactured home purchasers and dealers as well as our own retail location. The availability and cost of such financing is further dependent on the number of financial institutions participating in the industry, the departure of financial institutions from the industry, the financial institutions' lending practices, and the strength of the credit markets generally, governmental policies and other conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Throughout the past ten years the industry has been impacted significantly by reduced financing available at both the wholesale and retail levels, with several lenders exiting the marketplace or limiting their participation in the industry, coupled with more restrictive credit standards and increased home repossessions which re-enter home distribution channels and limit wholesale shipments of new homes. The changes announced in the last quarter of 2008 by the three primary national floor plan lenders will further restrict financing available for the manufactured housing industry. The much-anticipated infusion of new and competitive lending capacity, which we believe is essential to support demand at higher levels, has not yet materialized. Until there is substantial entry of finance resources to the manufactured housing market, we believe a meaningful expansion for the industry will be delayed. Unfavorable changes in the availability and terms of financing in the industry will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The manufactured housing industry is both cyclical and seasonal in nature, and the industry as a whole has declined significantly over the past ten years. The manufactured housing industry is highly cyclical and seasonal and has experienced wide fluctuations in aggregate sales in the past, resulting in the failure of many manufacturing concerns. Many of the same national and regional economic and demographic factors that affect the broader housing industry also affect the market for manufactured homes. Historically, most sectors of the home building industry, including the manufactured housing industry, have been affected by the following, among other things: · changes in general economic conditions; · inflation; · levels of consumer confidence; · employment and income levels; · housing supply and demand; · availability of alternative forms of housing; · availability of wholesale (dealer) financing; · availability of retail (consumer) financing; · the level and stability of interest rates; and · the availability of raw materials. MHI reported that from 1983 to 1991, aggregate domestic shipments of manufactured homes declined 42%. According to industry statistics, after a ten-year low in floor shipments in 1991, the industry recovered significantly. Between 1992 and 1998, floor shipments increased each year, although the growth rate gradually slowed. Shipments have declined each year from 1999 through 2008, except for a 6% increase in 2005 due to industry-wide orders by FEMA as part of that agency’s hurricane disaster relief efforts. During much of the 1990s, the manufactured housing industry experienced increases in both the number of retail dealers and manufacturing capacity, which we believe ultimately created slower retail turnover, higher dealer inventories and increased price competition. Some manufactured housing wholesale and retail lenders have discontinued business in the industry, and some of the remaining lenders have raised interest rates and tightened credit standards. In 2008, national floor plan lenders announced plans to discontinue or change their lending programs for the manufactured housing industry, which will, absent acceptable alternatives, further restrict available lending to our industry. We believe these conditions reflect that the manufactured housing industry is continuing in a down cycle, which has had a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Sales in the manufactured housing industry are also seasonal in nature, with sales of homes traditionally stronger in April through October and weaker during the first and last part of the calendar year. While seasonality did not significantly impact our business from 1992 through 1996, when industry shipments were steadily increasing, the continued tightening of competitive conditions seems to signal a return to the industry's traditional seasonal patterns. Approximately 94% of our sales in 2008 were to dealers operating sales centers in our core states. We cannot predict how long the tightening of competitive and industry conditions will last, or what the extent of their impact will be on our future results of operations and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Our business strategy includes plans to grow our business in a competitive environment, and we may not be able to sustain profitability if we fail to maintain and strengthen our market share. Our current business strategies are to: · control costs in light of currently prevailing industry conditions; · improve manufacturing cost efficiencies; · attempt to generate an increase in sales in an increasingly competitive environment; · improve brand management and penetration; · increase market share; · maintain consistent profitability; · develop our exclusive and independent dealer network; · eliminate redundant products to streamline production in an effort to reduce costs; and · manage product/model management, engineering, and service/warranty at the operating division in order to reduce our costs and shorten response times to customers. Downturns in shipments in the manufactured housing industry and a decline in the demand for our homes have had a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on a number of factors, including the following: · general economic and industry conditions; · the availability of capital and financing; · the availability and terms of wholesale and retail financing from lenders in the manufactured housing industry; · our ability to control costs if industry production capacity decreases below current levels; · competition from other companies in our industry; · our ability to attract, retain or sell to additional independent dealers, especially exclusive dealers; · the availability of semi-skilled workers in the areas in which our manufacturing facilities are located; · the ability of our independent dealers to compete under current industry conditions; · the ability to produce modular and HUD-Code products within the same manufacturing plants; and · market acceptance of product offerings. There are other factors in addition to those listed above, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure investors that our business strategy will be successful. If our strategy is unsuccessful, this may have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations or financial condition. Industry inventories of completed homes can vary, which may impact retail demand and our ability to sell additional homes at current prices. Changes in the level of retail inventories in the manufactured housing industry, either up or down, can have a significant impact on our operating results. For example, due to the rapid expansion of the retail distribution network in the manufactured housing industry that occurred in much of the 1990's, there was an imbalance between industry retail inventories and consumer demand for manufactured homes. The deterioration in the availability of retail financing, along with competition from repossessed homes, extended the inventory adjustment period beyond what was originally expected. If these trends were to continue, or if retail demand were to weaken further, the inventory overhang could result in even greater intense price competition, further pressure profit margins within the industry, and have a material adverse effect on us. The inventory of Cavalier manufactured homes at all retail locations decreased in 2008 to $65,300 from $84,700 in 2007. Significant unfavorable developments or further deterioration within the industry would undoubtedly have an adverse impact on our operating results. We depend on independent dealers for substantially all retail sales of our manufactured homes, and the failure or market exit of a significant number of these dealers could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on independent dealers for substantially all retail sales of our manufactured homes. Typically only one dealer within a given market area distributes a particular brand of ours. Our relationships with our dealers are cancelable on short notice by either party. The manufactured housing industry has experienced a trend of increasing competition for quality independent dealers. In addition, a number of dealers in the industry are experiencing difficulty in the current market conditions, as a number of retail dealers have failed and more dealers may fail before the current downturn ends. While we believe that our relations with our independent dealers are generally good, we cannot assure our investors that we will be able to maintain these relations, that these dealers will continue to sell our homes, that these dealers will be successful, or that we will be able to attract and retain quality independent dealers. 8 Table of Contents Competition from other manufactured housing providers may adversely affect our profitability. The production and sale of manufactured homes is a highly competitive industry, characterized by low barriers to entry and severe price competition. Competition is based primarily on the following factors: · price; · product features and quality; · reputation for service quality; · depth of field inventory; · delivery capabilities; · warranty repair service; · dealer promotions; · merchandising; and · terms and availability of wholesale (dealer) and retail (consumer) financing. In addition, we compete with other manufacturers, some of which maintain their own retail sales centers, for independent dealers. Manufactured homes also compete with other forms of low-cost housing, including site-built, prefabricated and modular homes, apartments, townhouses and condominiums. We face direct competition from numerous manufacturers, many of which possess greater financial, manufacturing, distribution and marketing resources. As a result of these competitive conditions, we may not be able to sustain past levels of sales or profitability. We sell a majority of our homes to dealers who finance the purchases under floor plan arrangements, which require us to enter into contingent repurchase agreements to repurchase the homes from the lender in certain circumstances. Manufactured housing companies customarily enter into repurchase and other recourse agreements with lending institutions, which have provided wholesale floor plan financing to dealers. A majority of our sales are made to dealers located primarily in the South Central and South Atlantic regions of the United States pursuant to repurchase agreements with lending institutions. These agreements generally provide that we will repurchase our products from the lending institutions at a declining price based upon our original invoice date and price in the event such product is repurchased upon a dealer's default. The risk of loss under repurchase agreements is lessened by the fact that (i) sales of our manufactured homes are spread over a relatively large number of independent dealers; (ii) the price that we are obligated to pay under such repurchase agreements generally declines over the period of the agreement and also declines during such period based on predetermined amounts; and (iii) we have been able to resell homes repurchased from lenders. While we have established a reserve for possible repurchase losses, we cannot assure investors that we will not incur material losses in excess of these reserves in the future. Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our reserve for credit losses could be inadequate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. With the sale of our financing services subsidiary, our exposure to credit losses on installment contracts will be eliminated, except for credit risks related to installment contracts held for investment, which we will retain in this transaction. We maintain a reserve for estimated credit losses on installment sale contracts and mortgage loans we own to provide for future losses based on our historical loss experience, current economic conditions and portfolio performance. It is difficult to predict with any certainty the appropriate reserves to establish, and we cannot assure investors that we will not experience losses that exceed our loss reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Volatility or a significant change in interest rates might also materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We obtain our raw materials from a limited number of suppliers, and unavailability or price increases in raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The availability and pricing of raw materials used in the production of homes may significantly affect our operating costs. Sudden increases in demand for these construction materials caused by natural disasters or other market forces, which may occur in the event of major hurricanes, can greatly increase the costs of materials or limit the availability of such materials. Increases in costs cannot always be reflected immediately in prices, especially in competitive times, and, consequently, may adversely impact our profitability. Further, a reduction in the availability of raw materials also may affect our ability to meet or maintain production requirements. 9 Table of Contents We obtain a substantial amount of our supply of laminated wallboard from a wholly-owned subsidiary, and obtain a majority of our supply of cabinetry from another wholly-owned subsidiary. We depend upon these subsidiaries for a significant portion of the materials used to construct portions of our manufactured homes. The inability of either of these subsidiaries to provide laminated wallboard or cabinetry to us, whether due to materials shortages, destruction of manufacturing facilities or other events, may affect our ability to meet or maintain production requirements. If manufactured housing sites are limited by zoning laws or other local regulation, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Any limitation on the growth of the number of sites for placement of manufactured homes or on the operation of manufactured housing communities could adversely affect the manufactured housing business. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, property owners often have resisted the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes in residential areas, which we believe has adversely affected the growth of the industry. We cannot assure investors that manufactured homes will receive widespread acceptance or that localities will adopt zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured home areas. The inability of the manufactured home industry to gain such acceptance and zoning ordinances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on the services of our management team, and the unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. Our success depends highly upon the personal efforts and abilities of our current executive officers. Specifically, we rely on the efforts of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Bobby Tesney, our Executive Vice President, Barry Mixon, and our Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary-Treasurer, Michael R. Murphy. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We do not have employment or non-competition agreements with any of our executive officers. Our ability to continue to work through the industry's current downturn will depend upon our ability to retain, and attract if necessary, experienced management personnel. We are subject to extensive regulation affecting the production and sale of manufactured housing, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the production and sale of manufactured housing. We suggest you refer to the section above under the heading “Regulation” for a description of many of these laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could expose us to a wide variety of sanctions, including closing one or more manufacturing facilities. Governmental bodies have regulatory matters affecting our operations under continuous review and we cannot predict what effect, if any, additional laws and regulations promulgated by HUD would have on us or the manufactured housing industry. Failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to or affecting us, or the passage in the future of new and more stringent laws affecting us, may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We must comply with extensive environmental regulation, and failure in our compliance efforts could result in damages, expenses or liabilities that individually or in the aggregate would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment govern our operations. In addition, third parties and governmental agencies in some cases have the power under such laws and regulations to require remediation of environmental conditions and, in the case of governmental agencies and entities, to impose fines and penalties. The requirements of such laws and enforcement policies have generally become stricter in recent years. Accordingly, we cannot assure investors that we will not be required to incur response costs, remediation expenses, fines, penalties or other similar damages, expenses or liabilities, or to incur operational shut-downs, business interruptions or similar losses, associated with compliance with environmental laws and enforcement policies that either individually or in the aggregate would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our liability for estimated warranties may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to warranty claims in the ordinary course of business. Although we maintain reserves for such claims, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that warranty expense levels will remain at current levels or that such 10 Table of Contents reserves will continue to be adequate. A large number of warranty claims exceeding our current warranty expense levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None 