Item 1A. RISK FACTORSNorth American CoalTermination of or default under long-term mining contracts could materially reduce the Company's profitability.Substantially all of NACoal's profits are derived from long-term mining contracts. The contracts for certain of NACoal's unconsolidated mines permit the customer under some conditions of default to acquire the assets or stock of the subsidiary for an amount roughly equal to book value. In one case, the customer may elect to acquire the stock of the subsidiary upon a specified period of prior notice, for any reason, in exchange for payments to NACoal on coal mined at that facility in the future. If any of NACoal's long-term mining contracts were terminated or if any of its customers were to default under the contracts, profitability could be materially reduced to the extent that NACoal is unable to find alternative customers at the same level of profitability.NACoal's unconsolidated mines are subject to risks created by changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax rates.The contracts with the unconsolidated mines’ customers allow each mine to sell coal at a price based on actual cost plus an agreed pre-tax profit per ton or cost plus a management fee during the production stage. During the development stage, the contracts with the unconsolidated mines' customers (other than the Coyote Creek customer) provide for reimbursement of actual costs incurred plus a monthly management fee. Coyote Creek's customer does not reimburse developments costs until the production stage, when deferred development costs are reimbursed over a 52-month period. During the production stage, the unconsolidated mines' customers pay on a cost-plus basis only for the coal they consume and use. As a result, reduced coal usage by customers for any reason, including but not limited to fluctuations in demand due to unanticipated weather conditions, scheduled and unscheduled power plant outages, economic conditions or governmental regulations, could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. Because of the contractual price formulas for the sale of coal and mining services by these unconsolidated mines, the profitability of these operations is also subject to fluctuations in inflationary adjustments (or lack thereof) that can impact the per ton profit or management fee paid for the coal and taxes applicable to NACoal's income on that coal. In addition, any changes in tax laws that eliminate benefits for percentage depletion would have a material adverse effect on the Company. These factors could materially reduce NACoal's profitability.NACoal’s consolidated mining operations are subject to risks created by its capital investment in the mines, the costs of mining the coal and the dragline mining equipment, in addition to risks created by changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax rates.The consolidated mining operations are comprised of MLMC, Reed Minerals, dragline mining services, royalties from mineral leases to other mining companies and other activities. The profitability of these consolidated mining operations is subject to the risk of loss of its investment in these mining operations, changes in demand from customers, as well as increases in the cost of mining the coal. At MLMC and Reed Minerals, the costs of mining operations are not passed on to customers. As such, increased costs at MLMC and Reed Minerals could materially reduce NACoal's profitability. NACoal's operations are subject to changes in customer demand for any reason, including but not limited to fluctuations in demand due to unanticipated weather conditions, the emergence of unidentified adverse mining conditions, planned and unplanned power plant outages, economic conditions, including economic conditions that adversely affect the demand for steel, governmental regulations, inflationary adjustments and tax risks. In addition, any changes in tax laws that eliminate benefits for percentage depletion or eliminate the expensing of exploration and development costs would have a material adverse effect on the Company. These factors could materially reduce NACoal's profitability.Mining operations are vulnerable to weather and other conditions that are beyond NACoal's control.Many conditions beyond NACoal's control can decrease the delivery, and therefore the use, of coal to NACoal's customers. These conditions include weather, the emergence of unidentified adverse mining conditions, unexpected maintenance problems and shortages of replacement parts, which could significantly reduce the Company's profitability.Government regulations could impose costly requirements on NACoal.The coal mining industry is subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities on matters concerning the health and safety of employees, land use, permit and licensing requirements, air and water quality standards, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Legislation mandating certain benefits for current and retired coal miners also affects the industry. Mining operations require numerous governmental permits and approvals. NACoal is required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data 19pertaining to the impact the production of coal may have upon the environment. The public, including non-governmental organizations, opposition groups and individuals, have statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and approvals. Compliance with these requirements may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of development or production.On July 21, 2010, the United States Congress passed the Dodd-Frank act, which resulted in the SEC adopting rules that will require NACoal to disclose on an annual basis, beginning in 2014, certain payments made by NACoal to the U.S. government and foreign governments, including sub-national governments. NACoal's efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and other new rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.New legislation and/or regulations and orders may materially adversely affect NACoal's mining operations or its cost structure. New legislation, including proposals related to environmental protection that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require NACoal or its customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Possible limitations on carbon emissions and requirements for a specific mix of fuel sources for energy generation methods may reduce potential coal demand. All of these factors could significantly reduce the Company's profitability.NACoal is subject to federal and state mining regulations, which place a burden on it.Federal and state statutes require NACoal to restore mine property in accordance with specified standards and an approved reclamation plan, and require that NACoal obtain and periodically renew permits for mining operations. Regulations require NACoal to incur the cost of reclaiming current mine disturbance. Although the Company believes that appropriate accruals have been recorded for all expected reclamation and other costs associated with closed mines, future profitability would be adversely affected if accruals for these costs are later determined to be insufficient or if changed conditions, including adverse judicial proceedings or revised assumptions, require a change in these reserves.NACoal's operations are impacted by the Clean Air Act requirements affecting coal consumption.The process of burning coal can cause many compounds and impurities in the coal to be released into the air; including sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury, particulate matter and others. The CAA and the corresponding state laws that extensively regulate the emissions of materials into the air affect coal mining operations both directly and indirectly. Direct impacts on coal mining operations occur through CAA permitting requirements and/or emission control requirements relating to aircontaminants, especially particulate matter. Indirect impacts on coal mining operations occur through regulation of the air emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury, particulate matter and other compounds emitted by coal-fired power plants. The EPA has promulgated or proposed regulations that impose tighter emission restrictions in a number of areas, some of which are currently subject to litigation. The general effect of tighter restrictions could be to reduce demand for coal. Any reduction in coal’s share of the capacity for power generation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.States are required to submit to the EPA revisions to their SIPs that demonstrate the manner in which the states will attain NAAQS every time a NAAQS is issued or revised by the EPA. The EPA has adopted NAAQS for several pollutants, which it continues to periodically review for revisions. When the EPA adopts new, more stringent NAAQS for a pollutant, some states have to change their existing SIPs. If a state fails to revise its SIP and obtain EPA approval, the EPA may adopt regulations to effect the revision. Coal mining operations and coal-fired power plants that emit particulate matter or other specified material are, therefore, affected by changes in the SIPs. Through this process over the last few years, the EPA has reduced the NAAQS for particulate matter, ozone, and nitrogen oxides. NACoal’s coal mining operations and utility customers may be directly affected when the revisions to the SIPs are made and incorporate new NAAQS for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ozone and particulate matter. In response to a court remand of earlier rules to control the regional transport of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides from coal-fired power plants and their impacts of downwind NAAQS areas, in mid-2011, the EPA finalized CSAPR to address interstate transport of pollutants. This affects states in the west, including Texas, whose emissions may travel to states in the eastern half of the United States. This rule imposes additional emission restrictions on coal-fired power plants to attain ozone and fine particulate NAAQS. On August 21, 2012 the U.S. Court of Appeals stuck down the CSAPR rule, effectively eliminating the new additional emission restrictions.The CAA Acid Rain Control Provisions were promulgated as part of the CAA Amendments of 1990 in Title IV of the CAA. The Acid Rain Program required reductions of sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants. The Acid Rain Program is now a mature program and the Company believes that any market impacts of the required controls have likely been factored into the coal market.20The EPA promulgated a regional haze program designed to protect and to improve visibility at and around Class I Areas, which are generally National Parks, National Wilderness Areas and International Parks. This program may restrict the construction of new coal-fired power plants whose operation may impair visibility at and around the Class I Areas. Additionally, the program requires certain existing coal-fired power plants to install additional control measures designed to limit haze-causing emissions, such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. States were required to submit Regional Haze SIPs to the EPA by December 2007; however, many states did not meet that deadline. Under the CAA, new and modified sources of air pollution must meet certain new source standards. In the late 1990s, the EPA filed lawsuits against many coal-fired power plants in the eastern United States alleging that the owners performed non-routine maintenance, causing increased emissions that should have triggered the application of these new source standards. Some of these lawsuits have been settled with the owners agreeing to install additional emission control devices in their coal-fired power plants. The remaining litigation and the uncertainty around the New Source Review Program rules could adversely impact demand for coal. Regardless of the outcome of litigation on either rule, stricter controls on emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and mercury are likely. Any such controls may have an adverse impact on the demand for coal, which may have an adverse effect on NACoal’s business, financial condition or results of operations.Under the CAA, the EPA also adopts national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants. In December 2011, the EPA adopted a final rule called MATS, which applies to new and existing coal-fired and oil-fired units. This requires mercury emission reductions, but also requires reductions in emissions of acid gases during fuel combustion, and additional reductions in fine particulates, which is being regulated as a surrogate for certain metals. NACoal’s utility customers must incur substantial costs to control emissions to meet all of the CAA requirements, including the new requirements under CSAPR and the EPA's regional haze program. These costs could raise the price of coal-generated electricity, making coal-fired power less competitive with other sources of electricity, thereby reducing demand for coal. In addition, NACoal's utility customers may choose to close coal-fired generation units or to postpone or cancel plans to add new capacity, in light of not only these costs, but also of the adequacy of the time mandated for compliance with the new requirements and the prospects of the imposition of additional future requirements on emissions from coal-fired units. If NACoal cannot offset the cost to control mercury, acid gas and fine particulate emissions by lowering the costs of delivery of its coal on an energy equivalent basis or if NACoal's customers elect to close coal-fired units, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention and a considerable amount of legislative and regulatory attention in the United States. Congress is considering climate change legislation that would reduce GHG emissions, particularly from coal combustion by power plants. The EPA has promulgated regulations to control GHG under the CAA without new legislation. Enactment of laws and passage of regulations regarding GHG emissions by the United States or some of its states, or other actions to limit carbon dioxide emissions, such as opposition by environmental groups to expansion or modification of coal-fired power plants, could result in electric generators switching from coal to other fuel sources.Congress continues to consider a variety of proposals to reduce GHG emissions from the combustion of coal and other fuels. These proposals include emission taxes, emission reductions, including “cap-and-trade” programs, and mandates or incentives to generate electricity by using renewable resources, such as wind or solar power. Some states have established programs to reduce GHG emissions.The EPA has begun to establish a GHG regulation program under the CAA by issuing a finding that the emission of six GHG, including carbon dioxide and methane, may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. On June 26, 2012 the U.S. Court of Appeals upheld this finding. Based on this finding, the EPA published a New Source Performance Standard for greenhouse gases, emitted from future new power plants, in 2012. The EPA is contemplating establishing greenhouse gas limits for existing power plants. This could impact coal-fired power plants and reduce the demand for coal.The United States has not implemented the Kyoto Protocol, which became effective for many countries on February 16, 2005. The Kyoto Protocol was intended to limit or reduce emissions of GHG, such as carbon dioxide. The United States has not ratified the emission targets of the Kyoto Protocol or any other GHG agreement. Because the first Protocol commitment period ended in 2012, an amendment to extend the Kyoto Protocol was adopted in Doha, Qatar on December 8, 2012. The United States is not a signatory to the amendment. Even though the United States has not accepted these international GHG limiting treaties nor has it enacted domestic legislation to control GHG, numerous lawsuits and regulatory actions have been undertaken by states and environmental groups to try to force controls on the emission of carbon dioxide; or to prevent the construction of new coal-fired power plants. The implementation by the United States of an international agreement, the regulations promulgated to date by the EPA with respect to GHG emissions or the adoption of legislation to control GHG emissions, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.21NACoal is subject to the high costs and risks involved in the development of new coal and dragline mining projects.From time to time, NACoal seeks to develop new coal and dragline mining projects. The costs and risks associated with such projects can be substantial. In addition, any changes in tax laws that eliminate the expensing of exploration and development costs will increase the cost of building a mine and make the cost of coal less competitive with other power generation fuels.Hamilton Beach BrandsHBB's business is sensitive to the strength of the U.S. retail market and weakness in this market could adversely affect its business.The strength of the retail economy in the United States has a significant impact on HBB's performance. Weakness in consumer confidence and poor financial performance by mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, department stores or any of HBB's other customers would result in lost revenues. A general slowdown in the retail sector would result in additional pricing and marketing support pressures on HBB.The market for HBB's products is highly seasonal and dependent on consumer spending, which could result in significant variations in the Company's revenues and profitability.Sales of HBB's products are related to consumer spending. Any downturn in the general economy or a shift in consumer spending away from small electric household appliances would adversely affect its business. In addition, the market for small electric household appliances is highly seasonal in nature. HBB often recognizes a substantial portion of its sales in the last half of the year as sales of small electric appliances to retailers and consumers increase significantly with the fall holiday-selling season. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of past operating results of HBB are meaningful only when comparing equivalent time periods, if at all. Any economic downturn, decrease in consumer spending or a shift in consumer spending away from small electric household appliances may significantly reduce revenues and profitability.HBB is dependent on key customers and the loss of, or significant decline in business from, one or more of its key customers could materially reduce its revenues and profitability and its ability to sustain or grow its business.HBB relies on several key customers. Its five largest customers accounted for approximately 53%, 50% and 55% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 31%, 30% and 36% of HBB's revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Although HBB has long-established relationships with many customers, it does not have any long-term supply contracts with these customers, and purchases are generally made using individual purchase orders. A loss of any key customer could result in significant decreases in HBB's revenues and profitability and an inability to sustain or grow its business.HBB must receive a continuous flow of new orders from its large, high-volume retail customers; however, it may be unable to continually meet the needs of those customers. In addition, failure to obtain anticipated orders or delays or cancellations of orders or significant pressure to reduce prices from key customers could impair its ability to sustain or grow its business.As a result of dependence on its key customers, HBB could experience a material adverse effect on its revenues and profitability if any of the following were to occur:•the insolvency or bankruptcy of any key customer;•a declining market in which customers materially reduce orders or demand lower prices; or•a strike or work stoppage at a key customer facility, which could affect both its suppliers and customers.If HBB were to lose, or experience a significant decline in business from, any major retail customer or if any major retail customers were to go bankrupt, HBB might be unable to find alternate distribution sources.HBB depends on third-party suppliers for the manufacturing of all of its products, which subjects the Company to risks, including unanticipated increases in expenses, decreases in revenues and disruptions in the supply chain.HBB is dependent on third-party suppliers for the manufacturing of all of its products. HBB's ability to select reliable suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact its success in meeting customer demand. Any inability of HBB's suppliers to timely deliver products that meet HBB's specifications or any unanticipated changes in suppliers could be disruptive and costly to the Company. Any significant failure by HBB to obtain quality products on a timely basis at an affordable cost or any significant delays or interruptions of supply would have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability.22Because HBB's suppliers are primarily based in China, international operations subject the Company to additional risks including, among others:•currency fluctuations;•labor unrest;•potential political, economic and social instability;•lack of developed infrastructure;•restrictions on transfers of funds;•import and export duties and quotas;•changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs;•uncertainties involving the costs to transport products;•long distance shipping routes dependent upon a small group of shipping and rail carriers;•unexpected changes in regulatory environments;•regulatory issues involved in dealing with foreign suppliers and in exporting and importing products;•protection of intellectual property;•difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws;•difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; and•potentially adverse tax consequences.The foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on HBB's ability to maintain or increase the supply of products, which may result in material increases in expenses and decreases in revenues.Increases in costs of products may materially reduce the Company's profitability.Factors that are largely beyond the Company's control, such as movements in commodity prices for the raw materials needed by suppliers of HBB's products, may affect the cost of products, and HBB may not be able to pass those costs on to its customers. As an example, HBB's products require a substantial amount of plastic. Because the primary resource used in plastic is petroleum, the cost and availability of plastic varies to a great extent with the price of petroleum. In recent years, the prices of petroleum, as well as steel, aluminum and copper, have increased significantly. These price increases may materially reduce the Company's profitability.The increasing concentration of HBB's small electric household appliance sales among a few retailers and the trend toward private label brands could materially reduce revenues and profitability.With the growing trend towards the concentration of HBB's small electric household appliance sales among a few retailers, HBB is increasingly dependent upon fewer customers whose bargaining strength is growing as a result of this concentration. HBB sells a substantial quantity of products to mass merchandisers, national department stores, variety store chains, drug store chains, specialty home retailers and other retail outlets. These retailers generally purchase a limited selection of small electric household appliances. As a result, HBB competes for retail shelf space with its competitors. In addition, certain of HBB's larger customers use their own private label brands on household appliances that compete directly with some of HBB's products. As the retailers in the small electric household appliance industry become more concentrated, competition for sales to these retailers may increase, which could materially reduce the Company's revenues and profitability.The small electric household and commercial appliance industry is consolidating, which could reduce HBB's ability to successfully secure product placements at key customers and limit its ability to sustain a cost competitive position in the industry.Over the past several years, the small electric household and commercial appliance industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and further consolidation is likely. As a result of this consolidation, the small electric household and commercial appliance industry primarily consists of a limited number of large distributors. To the extent that HBB does not continue to be a 23major participant in the small electric household and commercial appliance industry, its ability to compete effectively with these larger distributors could be negatively impacted. As a result, this condition could reduce HBB's ability to successfully secure product placements at key customers and limit the ability to sustain a cost competitive position in the industry.HBB's inability to compete effectively with competitors in its industry, including large established companies with greater resources, could result in lost market share and decreased revenues.The small electric household and commercial appliance industry does not have onerous entry barriers. As a result, HBB competes with many small manufacturers and distributors of housewares products. Additional competitors may also enter this market and cause competition to intensify. For example, some of HBB's customers have expressed interest in sourcing, or expanding the extent of sourcing, small electric household and commercial appliances directly from manufacturers in Asia. The Company believes competition is based upon several factors, including product design and innovation, quality, price, product features, merchandising, promotion and warranty. If HBB fails to compete effectively with these manufacturers and distributors, it could lose market share and experience a decrease in revenues, which would adversely affect the Company's results of operations.HBB also competes with established companies, a number of which have substantially greater facilities, personnel, financial and other resources. In addition, HBB competes with retail customers, who use their own private label brands, and importers and foreign manufacturers of unbranded products. Some competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with HBB. As a result of this competition, HBB could lose market share and revenues.Government regulations could impose costly requirements on HBB.The SEC adopted conflict mineral rules under Section 1502 of Dodd-Frank on August 22, 2012. The rules require disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals," which are mined from the DRC and adjoining countries. The new rules will require HBB to engage in due diligence efforts for the 2013 calendar year, with initial disclosures required no later than May 31, 2014, and subsequent disclosures required no later than May 31 of each following year. HBB expects that it will incur additional costs and expenses, which may be significant, in order to comply with these rules, including (i) due diligence to verify the sources of such conflict minerals; and (ii) any changes that HBB may make to its products, processes, or sources of supply as a result of such diligence and verification activities. Since HBB's supply chain is complex, ultimately it may not be able to designate all products as "DRC conflict free" which may adversely affect its reputation with certain customers. In such event, HBB may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require products purchased from HBB to be "DRC conflict free". If HBB is not able to meet such requirements, customers may choose not to purchase HBB products, which could adversely affect sales and the value of portions of HBB's inventory. Further, there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products containing only DRC conflict free parts, components and subassemblies and, as a result, HBB cannot be sure that it will be able to satisfy its purchase requirements, from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Any one or a combination of these various factors could harm HBB's business, which would adversely affect HBB's results of operations. Kitchen CollectionThe market for KC's products is highly seasonal and dependent on consumer spending, which could result in significant variations in the Company's revenues and profitability.Sales of products sold at KC stores are subject to a number of factors related to consumer spending, including general economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as unemployment rates, business conditions, interest rates, levels of consumer confidence, energy prices, mortgage rates, the level of consumer debt and taxation. A weak economic environment, a worsening of the general economy or a shift in consumer spending will adversely affect KC's business. In addition, KC often recognizes a substantial portion of its revenues and operating profit in the last half of the year as sales to consumers increase significantly with the fall holiday-selling season. Accordingly, any economic downturn, decrease in consumer spending or a shift in consumer spending away from KC's products could significantly reduce, or cause significant variations in, KC's revenues and profitability.KC faces an extremely competitive specialty retail market, and such competition could result in a reduction of KC's prices and loss of market share.The retail market is highly competitive. KC competes against a diverse group of retailers, including specialty stores, department stores, discount stores and internet and catalog retailers. Widespread sourcing of products allows many retailers to offer value-priced kitchen products. Many of KC's competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. This competition could result in the reduction of KC product prices and a loss of market share.24KC may not be able to forecast customer preferences accurately in its merchandise selections.KC's success depends in part on its ability to anticipate the tastes of its customers and to provide merchandise that appeals to their preferences. KC's strategy requires merchandising staff to introduce products that meet current customer preferences and that are affordable and distinctive in quality and design. KC's failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer trends could cause excess inventories and higher mark-downs or a shortage of products and could harm KC's business and operating results.KC depends on third-party suppliers for all of its products, which subjects KC to risks, including unanticipated increases in expenses, decreases in revenues and disruptions in the supply chain.KC is dependent on third-party suppliers for all of its products. KC's ability to select reliable suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact its success in meeting customer demand. Any inability of KC's suppliers to timely deliver products or any unanticipated changes in suppliers could be disruptive and costly to KC. The loss of a supplier could, in the short term, adversely affect KC’s business until alternative supply arrangements are secured. In addition, KC may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms in the future. KC's business would also be adversely affected by any delays in product shipments due to freight difficulties, strikes or other difficulties at its principal transport providers. Any significant failure by KC to obtain products on a timely basis at an affordable cost or any significant delays or interruptions of supply would have a material adverse effect on KC's profitability.Increases in health insurance costs could adversely impact KC's profitability.The costs of employee health care insurance have been increasing in recent years due to rising health care costs, legislative changes, and general economic conditions. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended, and related legislation (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”) that were signed into law in March 2010, with varied effective dates may require KC to provide health care insurance to certain part-time employees that would not otherwise have participated in KC's health care insurance plan. As a result, KC may incur additional costs. A continued increase in health care costs or additional costs incurred as a result of the Health Care Reform Laws could have a negative impact on KC's profitability.GeneralThe Company may become subject to claims under foreign laws and regulations, which may be expensive, time consuming and distracting.Because the Company has employees, property and business operations outside of the United States, the Company is subject to the laws and the court systems of many jurisdictions. The Company may become subject to claims outside the United States based in foreign jurisdictions for violations of their laws with respect to the foreign operations of NACoal and HBB. In addition, these laws may be changed or new laws may be enacted in the future. International litigation is often expensive, time consuming and distracting. As a result, any of these risks could significantly reduce the Company's profitability and its ability to operate its businesses effectively.The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could significantly reduce its profitability.The Company is highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of its respective key personnel and the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important to the successful conduct of the Company's business. Therefore, the Company's success also depends upon its ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. The Company's inability to hire and retain personnel with the requisite skills could impair its ability to manage and operate its business effectively and could significantly reduce its profitability.The amount and frequency of dividend payments made on NACCO's common stock could change.The Board of Directors has the power to determine the amount and frequency of the payment of dividends. Decisions regarding whether or not to pay dividends and the amount of any dividends are based on earnings, capital and future expense requirements, financial conditions, contractual limitations and other factors the Board of Directors may consider. Accordingly, holders of NACCO's common stock should not rely on past payments of dividends in a particular amount as an indication of the amount of dividends that will be paid in the future.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.25