Item 1A. RISK FACTORS NMHG NMHG’s lift truck business is cyclical. Any downturn in the general economy could result in significant decreases in the Company’s revenue and profitability and an inability to sustain or grow the business. NMHG’s lift truck business historically has been cyclical. Fluctuations in the rate of orders for lift trucks reflect the capital investment decisions of NMHG’s customers, which depend to a certain extent on the general level of economic activity in the various industries the lift truck customers serve. During economic downturns, customers tend to delay new lift truck and parts purchases. Consequently, as a result of the current economic environment, NMHG is currently experiencing, and in the future may continue to experience, significant reductions in its revenues and net income. If the current downturn continues or worsens, the Company’s revenue and profitability could decrease significantly and the Company’s financial results will be adversely affected. If the capital goods market worsens, the cost saving efforts implemented by NMHG may not be sufficient to achieve the benefits NMHG expects. If the current general economy or the capital goods market further declines, NMHG’s revenues will decline. If revenues are lower than expected, the programs implemented at NMHG may not achieve the benefits NMHG expects. Furthermore, NMHG may be forced to take additional cost savings steps that could result in additional charges that materially adversely affect its ability to compete or implement its current business strategies. The pricing and costs of NMHG’s products have been and may continue to be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, which could materially increase the Company’s costs, result in material exchange losses and materially reduce operating margins. Because NMHG conducts transactions in various foreign currencies, including the euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar, Brazilian real and the Japanese yen, its lift truck pricing is subject to the effects of fluctuations in the value of these foreign currencies and fluctuations in the related currency exchange rates. As a result, NMHG’s sales have historically been affected by, and may continue to be affected by, these fluctuations. In addition, exchange rate movements between currencies in which NMHG purchases materials and components and manufactures certain of its products and the currencies in which NMHG sells those products have been affected by and may continue to result in exchange losses that could materially reduce operating margins. Furthermore, NMHG’s hedging contracts may not offset current risks from changes in currency exchange rates. The cost of raw materials used by NMHG’s products has and may continue to fluctuate, which could materially reduce the Company’s profitability. At times, NMHG Wholesale has experienced significant increases in its materials costs, primarily as a result of global increases in industrial metals including steel, lead and copper and other commodity prices including rubber, as a result of 19 Table of Contents increased demand and limited supply. NMHG manufactures products that include raw materials that consist of steel, rubber, copper, lead, castings and counterweights. NMHG also purchases parts provided by suppliers that are manufactured from castings and steel or contain lead. The cost of these parts is impacted by the same economic conditions that impact the cost of the parts that NMHG manufactures. The cost to manufacture lift trucks and related service parts has been and will continue to be affected by fluctuations in prices for these raw materials. If costs of these raw materials increase, the Company’s profitability could be reduced. NMHG depends on a limited number of suppliers for specific critical components. NMHG depends on a limited number of suppliers for some of its critical components, including diesel and gasoline engines and cast-iron counterweights used to counterbalance some lift trucks. Some of these critical components are imported and subject to regulation, such as inspection by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if NMHG is unable to obtain these critical components, or if the costs of these critical components were to increase significantly, due to regulatory compliance or otherwise, and NMHG was unable to pass the cost increases on to its customers. If NMHG’s current cost reduction and efficiency programs, including the introduction of new products, does not prove effective, the Company’s revenues, profitability and market share could be significantly reduced. Changes in the timing of implementation of its current cost reduction, efficiency and new product programs may result in a delay in the expected recognition of future costs and realization of future benefits. As such, because future industry demand levels are lower than historical industry demand cycles as a result of the current economic environment, the actual annual cost savings could be lower than expected. If NMHG is unable to successfully implement these programs, the Company’s revenues, profitability and market share could be significantly reduced. The failure of NMHG to compete effectively within its industry could result in a significant decrease in the Company’s revenues and profitability. NMHG experiences intense competition in the sale of lift trucks and aftermarket parts. Competition in the lift truck industry is based primarily on strength and quality of dealers, brand loyalty, customer service, new lift truck sales prices, availability of products and aftermarket parts, comprehensive product line offerings, product performance, product quality and features and the cost of ownership over the life of the lift truck. NMHG competes with several global full-line manufacturers that operate in all major markets. These manufacturers may have greater financial resources and less debt than NMHG, which may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions, and lower costs of manufacturing. If NMHG fails to compete effectively, the Company’s revenues and profitability could be significantly reduced. NMHG relies primarily on its network of independent dealers to sell its lift trucks and aftermarket parts and has no direct control over sales by those dealers to customers. Ineffective or poor performance by these independent dealers could result in a significant decrease in the Company’s revenues and profitability and an inability by NMHG to sustain or grow the business. NMHG relies primarily on independent dealers for sales of its lift trucks and aftermarket parts. Sales of NMHG’s products are therefore subject to the quality and effectiveness of the dealers, who are generally not subject to NMHG’s direct control. As a result, ineffective or poorly performing dealers could result in a significant decrease in the Company’s revenues and profitability and NMHG may not be able to sustain or grow its business. NMHG‘s actual liabilities relating to pending lawsuits may exceed its expectations. NMHG is a defendant in pending lawsuits involving, among other things, product liability claims. NMHG cannot be sure that it will succeed in defending these claims, that judgments will not be rendered against NMHG with respect to any or all of these proceedings or that reserves set aside or insurance policies will be adequate to cover any such judgments. The Company could incur a charge to earnings if reserves prove to be inadequate or the average cost per claim or the number of claims exceed estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity for the period in which the charge is taken and any judgment or settlement amount is paid. NMHG is subject to repurchase or recourse obligations with respect to financing arrangements of some of its customers. Through arrangements with GECC and others, dealers and other customers are provided financing for new lift trucks in the United States and in major countries of the world outside of the United States. Through these arrangements, NMHG’s dealers and certain customers are extended credit for the purchase of lift trucks to be placed in the dealer’s floor plan inventory or the financing of lift trucks that are sold or leased to customers. For some of these arrangements, NMHG provides recourse or repurchase obligations such that it would become obligated in the event of default by the dealer or customer. Total amounts subject to these types of obligations at December 31, 2009 were $140.2 million. Generally, NMHG maintains a perfected security interest in the assets financed such that, in the event that it becomes obligated under the terms of the recourse or repurchase obligations, it may take title to the assets financed. NMHG cannot be certain, however, that the security interest will equal or exceed the amount of the recourse or repurchase obligations. In addition, NMHG cannot be certain that losses under the terms of the recourse or repurchase obligations will not exceed the reserves that it has set aside in its consolidated financial statements. The Company could incur a charge to earnings if its reserves prove to be inadequate, 20 Table of Contents which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity for the period in which the charge is taken. NMHG is subject to risks relating to its foreign operations. Foreign operations represent a significant portion of NMHG’s business. NMHG expects revenue from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of NMHG’s total revenue. NMHG owns or leases manufacturing facilities in Brazil, Italy, Mexico, The Netherlands and Northern Ireland, and owns interests in joint ventures with facilities in China, Japan, the Philippines and Vietnam. It also sells domestically produced products to foreign customers and sells foreign produced products to domestic customers. NMHG’s foreign operations are subject to additional risks, which include: • potential political, economic and social instability in the foreign countries in which NMHG operates; • currency risks, see the risk factor titled “The pricing and costs of NMHG’s products have been and may continue to be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, which could materially increase the Company’s costs, result in material exchange losses and materially reduce operating margins;” • imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls; • potential inflation in the applicable foreign economies; • imposition of or increases in import duties and other tariffs on NMHG’s products; • imposition of or increases in foreign taxation of earnings and withholding on payments received by NMHG from its subsidiaries; • regulatory changes affecting international operations; and • stringent labor regulations. Part of the strategy to expand NMHG’s worldwide market share and decrease costs is strengthening its international distribution network and sourcing basic components in lower-cost countries. Implementation of this strategy may increase the impact of the risks described above and there can be no assurance that such risks will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, profitability or market share. NMHG‘s actual liabilities relating to environmental matters may exceed its expectations. NMHG’s manufacturing operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances. NMHG Retail’s operations are particularly affected by laws and regulations relating to the disposal of cleaning solvents and wastewater and the use of and disposal of petroleum products from underground and above-ground storage tanks. If NMHG fails to comply with these laws or its environmental permits, then it could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions. In addition, future changes to environmental laws could require NMHG to incur significant additional expense or restrict operations. In addition, NMHG’s products may be subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing vehicle exhausts. Regulatory agencies in the United States and Europe have issued or proposed various regulations and directives designed to reduce emissions from spark ignited engines and diesel engines used in off-road vehicles, such as industrial lift trucks. These regulations require NMHG and other lift truck manufacturers to incur costs to modify designs and manufacturing processes and to perform additional testing and reporting. NMHG is investigating or remediating historical contamination at some current and former sites caused by its operations or those of businesses it acquired. NMHG has also been named as a potentially responsible party for cleanup costs under the so-called Superfund law at several third-party sites where NMHG (or its predecessors) disposed of wastes in the past. Under the Superfund law and often under similar state laws, the entire cost of cleanup can be imposed on any one of the statutorily liable parties, without regard to fault. While NMHG is not currently aware that any material outstanding claims or obligations exist with regard to these sites, the discovery of additional contamination at these or other sites could result in significant cleanup costs that could have a material adverse effect on NMHG’s financial conditions and results of operations. In connection with any acquisition made by NMHG, NMHG could, under some circumstances, be held financially liable for or suffer other adverse effects due to environmental violations or contamination caused by prior owners of businesses NMHG has acquired. In addition, under some of the agreements through which NMHG has sold businesses or assets, NMHG has retained responsibility for certain contingent environmental liabilities arising from pre-closing operations. These liabilities may not arise, if at all, until years later and could require NMHG to incur significant additional expenses, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Hamilton Beach Brands HBB’s business is sensitive to the strength of the U.S. retail market and weakness in this market could adversely affect its business. The strength of the retail economy in the United States has a significant impact on HBB’s performance. Weakness in consumer confidence and poor financial performance by mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, department stores or any of HBB’s other customers would result in lost revenues. A general slowdown in the retail sector would result in additional pricing and marketing support pressures on HBB. The market for HBB’s products is highly seasonal and dependent on consumer spending, which could result in significant variations in the Company’s revenues and profitability. 21 Table of Contents Sales of HBB’s products are related to consumer spending. Any downturn in the general economy or a shift in consumer spending away from small electric household appliances would adversely affect its business. In addition, the market for small electric household appliances is highly seasonal in nature. HBB often recognizes a substantial portion of its sales in the last half of the year. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of past operating results of HBB are meaningful, if at all, only when comparing equivalent time periods. The continued economic downturn and the decrease in consumer spending or a shift in consumer spending away from small electric household appliances may significantly reduce revenues and profitability. HBB is dependent on key customers and the loss of, or significant decline in business from, one or more of its key customers could materially reduce its revenues and profitability and its ability to sustain or grow its business. HBB relies on several key customers. Its five largest customers accounted for approximately 61%, 60% and 58% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 38%, 40% and 37% of HBB’s revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Although HBB has long-established relationships with many customers, it does not have any long-term supply contracts with these customers, and purchases are generally made using individual purchase orders. A loss of any key customer could result in significant decreases in HBB’s revenues and profitability and an inability to sustain or grow its business. HBB must receive a continuous flow of new orders from its large, high-volume retail customers; however, it may be unable to continually meet the needs of those customers. In addition, failure to obtain anticipated orders or delays or cancellations of orders or significant pressure to reduce prices from key customers could impair its ability to sustain or grow its business. As a result of dependence on its key customers, HBB could experience a material adverse effect on its revenues and profitability if any of the following were to occur: • the insolvency or bankruptcy of any key customer; • a declining market in which customers materially reduce orders or demand lower prices; or • a strike or work stoppage at a key customer facility, which could affect both its suppliers and customers. If HBB were to lose, or experience a significant decline in business from, any major retail customer or if any major retail customers were to go bankrupt, HBB might be unable to find alternate distribution sources. HBB depends on third-party suppliers for the manufacturing of all of its products, which subjects the Company to risks, including unanticipated increases in expenses, decreases in revenues and disruptions in the supply chain. HBB is dependent on third-party suppliers for the manufacturing of all of its products. HBB’s ability to select reliable suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact its success in meeting customer demand. Any inability of HBB’s suppliers to timely deliver products or any unanticipated changes in suppliers could be disruptive and costly to the Company. Any significant failure by HBB to obtain products on a timely basis at an affordable cost or any significant delays or interruptions of supply would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. Because HBB’s suppliers are primarily based in China, international operations subject the Company to additional risks including, among others: • currency fluctuations; • labor unrest; • potential political, economic and social instability; • lack of developed infrastructure; • restrictions on transfers of funds; • import and export duties and quotas; • changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs; • uncertainties involving the costs to transport products; • long distance shipping routes dependent upon a small group of shipping and rail carriers; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • regulatory issues involved in dealing with foreign suppliers and in exporting and importing products; • difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. The foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on HBB’s ability to maintain or increase the supply of products, which may result in material increases in expenses and decreases in revenues. Increases in costs of products may materially reduce the Company’s profitability. Factors that are largely beyond the Company’s control, such as movements in commodity prices for the raw materials needed by suppliers of HBB’s products, may affect the cost of products, and HBB may not be able to pass those costs on to its customers. As an example, HBB’s products require a substantial amount of plastic. Because the primary resource used in plastic is petroleum, the cost and availability of plastic varies to a great extent with the price of petroleum. In recent years, 22 Table of Contents the prices of petroleum, as well as steel, aluminum and copper have increased significantly. These price increases may materially reduce the Company’s profitability. The increasing concentration of HBB’s small electric household appliance sales among a few retailers and the trend toward private label brands could materially reduce revenues and profitability. With the growing trend towards the concentration of HBB’s small electric household appliance sales among a few retailers, HBB is increasingly dependent upon fewer customers whose bargaining strength is growing as a result of this concentration. HBB sells a substantial quantity of products to mass merchandisers, national department stores, variety store chains, drug store chains, specialty home retailers and other retail outlets. These retailers generally purchase a limited selection of small electric household appliances. As a result, HBB competes for retail shelf space with its competitors. In addition, certain of HBB’s larger customers use their own private label brands on household appliances that compete directly with some of HBB’s products. As the retailers in the small electric household appliance industry become more concentrated, competition for sales to these retailers may increase, which could materially reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. The small electric household and commercial appliance industry is consolidating, which could reduce HBB’s ability to successfully secure product placements at key customers and limit its ability to sustain a cost competitive position in the industry. Over the past several years, the small electric household and commercial appliance industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and further consolidation is likely. As a result of this consolidation, the small electric household and commercial appliance industry primarily consists of a limited number of large distributors. To the extent that HBB does not continue to be a major participant in the small electric household and commercial appliance industry, its ability to compete effectively with these larger distributors could be negatively impacted. As a result, this condition could reduce HBB’s ability to successfully secure product placements at key customers and limit the ability to sustain a cost competitive position in the industry. HBB’s inability to compete effectively with competitors in its industry, including large established companies with greater resources, could result in lost market share and decreased revenues. The small electric household and commercial appliance industry does not have onerous entry barriers. As a result, HBB competes with many small manufacturers and distributors of housewares products. Additional competitors may also enter this market and cause competition to intensify. For example, some of HBB’s customers have expressed interest in sourcing, or expanding the extent of sourcing, small electric household and commercial appliances directly from manufacturers in Asia. The Company believes competition is based upon several factors, including product design and innovation, quality, price, product features, merchandising, promotion and warranty. If HBB fails to compete effectively with these manufacturers and distributors, it could lose market share and experience a decrease in revenues, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. HBB also competes with established companies, a number of which have substantially greater facilities, personnel, financial and other resources. In addition, HBB competes with retail customers, who use their own private label brands, and importers and foreign manufacturers of unbranded products. Some competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with HBB. As a result of this competition, HBB could lose market share and revenues. Kitchen Collection The market for KC’s products is highly seasonal and dependent on consumer spending, which could result in significant variations in the Company’s revenues and profitability. Sales of products sold at KC stores are subject to a number of factors related to consumer spending, including general economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as unemployment rates, business conditions, interest rates, levels of consumer confidence, energy prices, mortgage rates, the level of consumer debt and taxation. The weak economic environment, a worsening of the general economy or a shift in consumer spending will adversely affect KC’s business. In addition, KC often recognizes a substantial portion of its sales in the last half of the year. Accordingly, any economic downturn, decrease in consumer spending or a shift in consumer spending away from KC’s products could significantly reduce revenues and profitability. KC faces an extremely competitive specialty retail market, and such competition could result in a reduction of KC’s prices and loss of market share. The retail market is highly competitive. KC competes against a diverse group of retailers, including specialty stores, department stores, discount stores and catalog retailers. Many of KC’s competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. This competition could result in the reduction of KC product prices and/or a loss of market share. KC may not be able to forecast customer preferences accurately in its merchandise selections. KC’s success depends in part on its ability to anticipate the tastes of its customers and to provide merchandise that appeals to their preferences. KC’s strategy requires merchandising staff to introduce products that meet current customer preferences and that are affordable and distinctive in quality and design. KC’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to 23 Table of Contents changes in consumer trends could cause excess inventories and higher mark-downs or a shortage of products and could harm KC’s business and operating results. KC depends on third-party suppliers for all of its products, which subjects KC to risks, including unanticipated increases in expenses, decreases in revenues and disruptions in the supply chain. KC is dependent on third-party suppliers for all of its products. KC’s ability to select reliable suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact its success in meeting customer demand. Any inability of KC’s suppliers to timely deliver products or any unanticipated changes in suppliers could be disruptive and costly to KC. In addition, KC may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms in the future. KC’s business would also be adversely affected by any delays in product shipments due to freight difficulties, strikes or other difficulties at its principal transport providers. Any significant failure by KC to obtain products on a timely basis at an affordable cost or any significant delays or interruptions of supply would have a material adverse effect on KC’s profitability. North American Coal Termination of long-term mining contracts could materially reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. Substantially all of NACoal’s revenues and profits are derived from long-term mining contracts. The contracts for certain of NACoal’s unconsolidated mines permit the customer under some conditions of default to acquire the assets or stock of the subsidiary for an amount roughly equal to book value. In one case, the customer may elect to acquire the stock of the subsidiary upon a specified period of prior notice, for any reason, in exchange for payments to NACoal on coal mined at that facility in the future. If any of NACoal’s long-term mining contracts were terminated, revenues and profitability could be materially reduced to the extent that NACoal is unable to find alternative customers at the same level of profitability. NACoal’s unconsolidated mines are subject to risks created by changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax rates. The contracts with the unconsolidated mines’ utility customers allow each mine to sell coal at a price based on actual cost plus an agreed pre-tax profit per ton or cost plus a management fee per ton. Unconsolidated mine customers pay on a cost-plus basis only for the coal they consume and use. As a result, reduced coal usage by customers, including, but not limited to, unanticipated weather conditions and scheduled and unscheduled power plant outages, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Because of the contractual price formulas for the sale of coal and mining services by these unconsolidated mines, the profitability of these operations is also subject to fluctuations in inflationary adjustments (or lack thereof) that can impact the per ton profit or management fee paid for the coal and taxes applicable to NACoal’s income on that coal. In addition, any changes in tax laws that eliminate benefits for percentage depletion would have a material adverse effect on the Company. NACoal’s other mining operations, including its consolidated mining operations, are subject to risks created by its capital investment in the mines, the costs of mining the coal and the dragline mining equipment, in addition to risks created by changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax rates. The consolidated mining operations are comprised of MLMC and San Miguel, dragline mining services, royalties from mineral leases to other mining companies and other activities. The profitability of these consolidated mining operations is subject to the risk of loss of its investment in these mining operations, as well as increases in the cost of mining the coal. At MLMC, the costs of mining operations are not passed on to its customer. As such, increased costs at MLMC could materially reduce NACoal’s profitability. NACoal’s operations are also subject to customer demand, including but not limited to fluctuations in demand due to unanticipated weather conditions, the emergence of unidentified adverse mining conditions, power plant outages, inflationary adjustments and tax risks described above with respect to its unconsolidated mines. In addition, any changes in tax laws that eliminate benefits for percentage depletion or eliminate the expensing of exploration and development costs would have a material adverse effect on the Company. These factors could materially reduce NACoal’s profitability. Mining operations are vulnerable to weather and other conditions that are beyond NACoal’s control. Many conditions beyond NACoal’s control can decrease the delivery, and therefore the use, of coal to NACoal’s customers. These conditions include weather, the emergence of unidentified adverse mining conditions, unexpected maintenance problems and increased costs of replacement parts which could significantly reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. Government regulations could impose costly requirements on NACoal. The coal mining industry is subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities on matters concerning the health and safety of employees, land use, permit and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Legislation mandating certain benefits for current and retired coal miners also affects the industry. Mining operations require numerous governmental permits and approvals. NACoal is required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the impact that production of coal may have upon the environment. Compliance with these requirements may be costly and time-consuming. 24 Table of Contents New legislation and/or regulations and orders may materially adversely affect NACoal’s mining operations or its cost structure. New legislation, including proposals related to environmental protection that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require NACoal or its customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Possible limitations on carbon emissions and requirements for a specific mix of fuel sources for energy generation methods may reduce potential coal demand. All of these factors could significantly reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. NACoal is subject to federal and state mining regulations, which place a burden on it. Federal and state statutes require NACoal to restore mine property in accordance with specified standards and an approved reclamation plan, and require that NACoal obtain and periodically renew permits for mining operations. Regulations require NACoal to incur the cost of reclaiming current mine disturbance. Although the Company believes that appropriate accruals have been recorded for all expected reclamation and other costs associated with closed mines, future profitability would be adversely affected if accruals for these costs are later determined to be insufficient or if changed conditions, including adverse judicial proceedings or revised assumptions, require a change in these reserves. NACoal’s operations are impacted by the Clean Air Act Amendments on coal consumption. The process of burning coal can cause many compounds and impurities in the coal to be released into the air; including sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury, particulate matter and others. The CAA and the corresponding state laws that extensively regulate the emissions of materials into the air affect coal mining operations both directly and indirectly. Direct impacts on coal mining operations occur through CAA permitting requirements and/or emission control requirements relating to air contaminants, especially, particulate matter. Indirect impacts on coal mining operations occur through regulation of the air emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury, particulate matter and other compounds emitted by coal-fired power plants. The EPA has imposed or attempted to impose tighter emission restrictions in a number of areas, some of which are currently subject to litigation while others are pending. The general effect of tighter restrictions could be to reduce demand for coal. Any reduction in coal’s share of the capacity for power generation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. States are required to submit to EPA revisions to their SIPs that demonstrate the manner in which the states will attain NAAQS every time a NAAQS is issued or revised by the EPA. The EPA has adopted NAAQS for several pollutants. In July 1997, the EPA adopted new, more stringent NAAQS for particulate matter that required some states to change their existing SIPs. Coal mining operations and coal-fired power plants that emit particulate matter are, therefore, affected by changes in the SIPs. In 2006, the EPA adopted a new NAAQS for particulate matter, which a number of states and environmental advocacy groups challenged as not sufficiently stringent to satisfy CAA requirements. In February 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit agreed that the EPA had inadequately explained its decision regarding several aspects of these 2006 NAAQS and remanded those to the EPA for reconsideration. This process could lead to a more stringent NAAQS for particulate matter. In addition, in March 2008, the EPA also adopted a more stringent NAAQS for the ozone. NACoal’s coal mining operations and utility customers may be directly affected when the revisions to the SIPs are made and incorporate the new NAAQS for ozone and particulate matter. In addition to the SIP process, the CAA allows states to assert claims against sources in “upwind” states that allege emission sources, including coal-fired power plants, in the “upwind” states are preventing “downwind” states from attaining the applicable NAAQS. The new NAAQS for ozone and particulate matter and claims by “downwind” states may restrict NACoal’s ability to develop new mines or could require it to modify its existing operations. NACoal’s utility customers may also be required to install additional emission control equipment to meet the SIPs. The extent of the potential impact of the new NAAQS on the coal industry will depend on the policies and emission control strategies associated with the SIPs under the CAA but could have a material adverse effect on NACoal’s business, financial condition and the results of operations. The Acid Rain Program required reductions of sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants. The Acid Rain Program is now a mature program and the Company believes that any market impacts of the required controls have likely been factored into the coal market. The EPA promulgated a regional haze program designed to protect and to improve visibility at and around Class I Areas, which are generally National Parks, National Wilderness Areas and International Parks. This program may restrict the construction of new coal-fired power plants whose operation may impair visibility at and around the Class I Areas. Additionally, the program requires certain existing coal-fired power plants to install additional control measures designed to limit haze-causing emissions, such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. States were required to submit Regional Haze SIPs to the EPA by December 2007; however, many states did not meet that deadline. In the late 1990s, the EPA filed lawsuits against many coal-fired power plants in the eastern United States alleging that the owners performed non-routine maintenance, causing increased emissions that should have triggered the application of these new source standards. Some of these lawsuits have been settled with the owners agreeing to install additional emission control devices in their coal-fired power plants. The remaining litigation and the uncertainty around the New Source Review Program rules could adversely impact demand for coal. In March 2005, the EPA issued two related rules designed to significantly reduce levels of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and mercury: CAIR and CAMR. CAIR sets a “cap-and-trade” program in 28 states and the District of Columbia to establish emissions limits for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, by allowing utilities to buy and sell credits to assist in achieving compliance with the NAAQS for eight-hour ozone and particulates. CAMR is designed to reduce mercury emissions by nearly 70% by 2018 through a “cap-and-trade” program. Both rules have been challenged in numerous lawsuits. The United States 25 Table of Contents Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated CAMR and remanded it to the EPA for reconsideration in February 2008. In February 2009, the EPA announced its intention to develop a technology-based standard to address mercury emissions rather than pursue the “cap-and-trade” approach of CAMR. The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated CAIR in July 2008, but subsequently remanded the matter to the EPA for reconsideration. The EPA is preparing its response to the remand, but the court did not impose a response date. Regardless of the outcome of litigation on either rule, stricter controls on emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and mercury are likely. Any such controls may have an adverse impact on the demand for coal, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The cost of controlling mercury emissions from coal combustion will be significant. NACoal’s utility customers may incur substantial costs in order to switch to other fuels which may require expensive modifications to their existing plants. If NACoal cannot offset the cost of mercury removal by lowering the costs of delivery of its coal on an energy equivalent basis, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely effected. Global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention and a considerable amount of legislative and regulatory attention in the United States. Congress is considering climate change legislation that would reduce GHG emissions, particularly from coal combustion by power plants. The EPA is also developing regulations to control GHG under the CAA without new legislation. Enactment of laws and passage of regulations regarding GHG emissions by the United States or some of its states, or other actions to limit carbon dioxide emissions, such as opposition by environmental groups to expansion or modification of coal-fired power plants, could result in electric generators switching from coal to other fuel sources. Congress continues to consider a variety of proposals to reduce GHG emissions from the combustion of coal and other fuels. These proposals include emission taxes, emission reductions, including “cap-and-trade” programs, and mandates or incentives to generate electricity by using renewable resources, such as wind or solar power. Some states have established programs to reduce GHG emissions. The EPA has begun to establish a GHG regulation program under the CAA by issuing a finding that the emission of six GHG, including carbon dioxide and methane, may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. After issuing this finding, the EPA is proceeding to develop other regulations under the CAA, which could impact coal-fired power plants and reduce the demand for coal or increase our own energy costs. The United States has not implemented the Kyoto Protocol, which became effective for many countries on February 16, 2005. The Kyoto Protocol was intended to limit or reduce emissions of GHG, such as carbon dioxide. The United States has not ratified the emission targets of the Kyoto Protocol or any other GHG agreement. Because the Kyoto Protocol will expire in 2012, there have been efforts to reach an international agreement, including a meeting in Copenhagen, Denmark in December 2009, to construct a successor to the Kyoto Protocol. Even though the United States has not accepted these international GHG limiting treaties nor has it enacted domestic legislation to control GHG, numerous lawsuits and regulatory actions have been undertaken by states and environmental groups to try to force controls on the emission of carbon dioxide; or to prevent the construction of new coal-fired power plants. The implementation by the United States of an international agreement or the adoption of legislation to control GHG emissions, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. Global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention and a considerable amount of legislative and regulatory attention in the United States. Congress is considering climate change legislation that would reduce GHG emissions, particularly from coal combustion by power plants. EPA is also developing regulations to control GHG under the CAA without new legislation; however, these draft regulations are not yet finalized. Enactment of laws and passage of regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions by the United States or some of its states, or other actions to limit carbon dioxide emissions, could result in electric generators switching from coal to other fuel sources. NACoal is subject to the high costs and risks involved in the development of new coal and dragline mining projects. From time to time, NACoal seeks to develop new coal and dragline mining projects. The costs and risks associated with such projects can be substantial. In addition, any changes in tax laws that eliminate the expensing of exploration and development costs will increase the cost of building a mine and make the cost of coal less competitive with other power generation fuels. General The current economic environment may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit and business and consumer spending patterns. The ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to make scheduled payments or to refinance their obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on their operating and financial performance and credit availability, which in turn are subject to the weak economic conditions. The economic recession, subprime mortgage crisis, decline in housing markets and disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy, restructuring, sale or acquisition of major financial institutions, may adversely affect the availability of credit already arranged, and the availability and cost of credit in the future. In the event that the Company’s subsidiaries seek to refinance or modify existing financial arrangements with their lenders, there is no assurance that such creditors will agree to refinance or to modify existing arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. The disruptions in the financial markets has had an adverse effect on the United States and world economies, which has and may continue to negatively affect business and consumer spending patterns. These disruptions could result in continued reductions in sales of the Company’s subsidiaries’ products and services, reductions in asset values, longer sales cycles, and 26 Table of Contents increased price competition, as well as reductions in the borrowing base under the credit facilities of the Company’s subsidiaries. There can be no assurances that U.S. and non-U.S. governmental responses to the economic recession and disruptions in the financial markets will restore business or consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. The Company may become subject to claims under foreign laws and regulations, which may be expensive, time consuming and distracting. Because the Company has employees, property and business operations outside of the United States, the Company is subject to the laws and the court systems of many jurisdictions. The Company may become subject to claims outside the United States based in foreign jurisdictions for violations of their laws with respect to the foreign operations of NMHG and HBB. In addition, these laws may be changed or new laws may be enacted in the future. International litigation is often expensive, time consuming and distracting. As a result, any of these risks could significantly reduce the Company’s profitability and its ability to operate its businesses effectively. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could significantly reduce its profitability. The Company is highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of its respective key personnel and the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important to the successful conduct of the Company’s business. Therefore, the Company’s success also depends upon its ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. The Company’s inability to hire and retain personnel with the requisite skills could impair its ability to manage and operate its business effectively and could significantly reduce its profitability. The amount and frequency of dividend payments made on NACCO’s common stock could change. The Board of Directors has the power to determine the amount and frequency of the payment of dividends. Decisions regarding whether or not to pay dividends and the amount of any dividends are based on earnings, capital and future expense requirements, financial conditions, contractual limitations and other factors the Board of Directors may consider. Accordingly, holders of NACCO’s common stock should not rely on past payments of dividends in a particular amount as an indication of the amount of dividends that will be paid in the future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 