Item 1A. RISK FACTORS NMHG The cost of raw materials, including steel, used by NMHG’s products has and may continue to fluctuate, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. NMHG manufactures products that include raw materials that consist of steel, rubber, castings and counterweights. NMHG also purchases parts provided by suppliers that are manufactured from castings and steel. The cost of these parts is impacted by the same economic conditions that impact the cost of the parts that NMHG manufactures. The cost to manufacture lift trucks and related service parts has been and will continue to be affected by fluctuations in prices for these raw materials. If costs increase, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The pricing and costs of NMHG’s products have been and may continue to be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Because NMHG conducts transactions in various foreign currencies, including the euro, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and the British pound sterling, its lift truck pricing structure and that of some of its competitors is subject to the effects of fluctuations in the value of these foreign currencies and fluctuations in the related currency exchange rates. As a result, NMHG’s costs and sales have historically been affected by, and may continue to be affected by, these fluctuations. These fluctuations historically have adversely affected, and in the future could materially adversely affect, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. NMHG depends on a limited number of suppliers for specific critical components. NMHG depends on a limited number of suppliers for some of its critical components, including diesel and gasoline engines and cast-iron counterweights used to counterbalance some lift trucks. Some of these critical components are imported and subject to regulation, such as inspection by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if NMHG is unable to obtain these critical components, or if the costs of these critical components were to increase significantly, due to regulatory compliance or otherwise, and NMHG was unable to pass the cost increases on to its customers. NMHG’s lift truck business is cyclical. Any downturn in the general economy could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. NMHG’s lift truck business historically has been cyclical. Fluctuations in the rate of orders for lift trucks reflect the capital investment decisions of NMHG’s customers, which depend to a certain extent on the general level of economic activity in the various industries that the lift truck customers serve. During economic downturns, customers tend to delay new lift truck purchases. Consequently, NMHG has experienced, and in the future will 18 Table of Contents experience, significant fluctuations in its revenues and net income. If there is a downturn in the general economy, or in the industries served by NMHG’s lift truck customers, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If the capital goods market worsens, the cost saving efforts implemented by NMHG may not be sufficient to achieve the benefits NMHG expects. In 2000, NMHG began implementing a series of restructuring programs, which included the closure of NMHG’s Danville, Illinois assembly facility, the phase-out of its Lenoir, North Carolina facility, labor and overhead reductions and the restructuring of NMHG’s other manufacturing facilities and owned dealers, to improve profits and margins despite decreased revenues. If the economy or the capital goods market declines, NMHG’s revenues could decline. If revenues are lower than expected, the efforts implemented at NMHG may not achieve the benefits NMHG expects. NMHG may be forced to take additional cost savings steps that could result in additional charges and materially affect its ability to compete or implement its business strategies. Introduction of new products will require funding at current or higher levels, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Product development and product introduction costs related to the new product development programs that are part of NMHG’s Global Cost Reduction Program are expected to continue at current high levels through 2006. The product development and product introduction expenses could be higher than projected and such higher costs would have an adverse impact on future results of operations. If NMHG’s Global Cost Reduction Program, including the introduction of new products, does not prove effective, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in the timing of implementation of certain plant projects in Europe as part of NMHG’s Global Cost Reduction Program encompassing lean manufacturing, global procurement, the transfer of processes and sourcing to lower cost locations, component commonality, overhead cost reductions and improvements in its owned dealers have resulted in delays in the expected recognition of future costs and realization of future benefits. Although the primary benefit of the restructuring program was an anticipated reduction in fixed factory costs, the overall results of the program could vary depending on unit volumes and the resulting effect on manufacturing efficiencies. As such, if future industry demand levels are lower than historical industry demand cycles would indicate, the actual annual cost savings could be lower than expected. If NMHG is unable to successfully implement the Global Cost Reduction Program, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If cost saving efforts implemented for NMHG’s owned dealers do not continue to be effective, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Since June 1997, NMHG has acquired two dealers in the Americas, which it combined into one dealer, 12 dealers and one rental company in Europe and 12 dealers and two rental companies in Asia-Pacific. In 2001, NMHG’s net loss attributable to owned dealers increased substantially compared to 2000. To improve the profitability of owned dealers, NMHG has engaged in effective restructuring activities with respect to the European and American owned dealers in 2001, including the sale of certain dealers in Germany in 2001 and the sale of its only U.S. dealer in January 2003. Other restructuring activities included lease termination costs and severance and other employee benefits to be paid to approximately 140 terminated employees at owned dealers in Europe. As of December 31, 2005, NMHG had four dealerships and rental companies in Europe and nine dealerships and rental companies in Asia-Pacific. However, if the restructuring activities for the European owned dealers do not continue to be effective, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Competition may materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. NMHG experiences intense competition in the sale of lift trucks and aftermarket parts. Competition in the lift truck industry is based primarily on strength and quality of dealers, brand loyalty, customer service, new lift truck sales prices, availability of products and aftermarket parts, comprehensive product line offering, product performance, product quality and features and the cost of ownership over the life of the lift truck. NMHG competes with several global full-line manufacturers that operate in all major markets. These manufacturers may have greater financial resources and less debt than NMHG, which may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions, and lower costs of manufacturing. If NMHG fails to compete effectively, the Company’s earnings and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. NMHG relies primarily on its network of dealers to sell its lift trucks and aftermarket parts and has no direct control over sales by those dealers to customers. If NMHG’s independent dealers become ineffective or perform poorly, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. NMHG relies primarily on independent dealers, rather than wholly owned dealers, for sales of its lift trucks and aftermarket parts. Sales of NMHG’s products are therefore subject to the quality and effectiveness of the dealers, who are generally not subject to NMHG’s direct control. As a result, the Company’s earnings and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by ineffective dealers. 19 Table of Contents The expiration of existing anti-dumping duties and manufacturing by Japanese competitors in the United States could adversely affect NMHG’s competitive position, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Certain Japanese-built internal combustion engine lift trucks in the 1 to 8 ton capacity range imported into the United States were subject to an anti-dumping duty between 1988 and 2005. The anti-dumping duty rates in effect through 2005 ranged from 7.39% to 56.81% depending on the manufacturer or importer. Because the anti-dumping duty order expired in December 2005, NMHG’s Japanese competitors might be able to import lift trucks for sale at a cost below fair market value. If NMHG were to lower its prices to maintain market share, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If NMHG does not lower its prices, its competitive position, revenues, results of operation and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. NMHG’s business may be subject to retaliatory duties imposed by the European Union. As a result of certain rulings by the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) with respect to tax benefits granted to U.S. exporters under U.S. tax laws, a portion of NMHG’s products exported into European Union countries during 2004 were subject to an additional duty. The additional duty was 5% ad valorem in March 2004 and increased 1% each month thereafter up to a maximum of 17%. Effective January 1, 2005, the council of the European Union suspended the additional customs duties on imports of certain NMHG products originating in the United States, subject to a determination by the WTO whether certain aspects of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Act”) are consistent with the U.S.’s WTO obligation. On February 13, 2006, a WTO appeals panel issued a report that upholds a compliance panel finding that the Jobs Act is not consistent with the U.S.’s WTO obligation. The European Union announced that if WTO members formally accept the report it may resume the duties that had been in place as of December 31, 2004. These additional duties will be set at 14%, the rate in effect when the duties were suspended in 2004, and will rise 1% each month until a ceiling rate of 17% is reached. The duties will apply to the same broad grouping of goods that were affected before the enactment of the Jobs Act, but are only expected to be imposed through December 2006. The additional duties will have an adverse effect on NMHG’s financial position and results of operations. In addition, NMHG’s business in the past has been affected by trade disputes between the United States and Europe. In the future, to the extent NMHG is affected by trade disputes and increased tariffs are levied on its goods, its results of operations may be materially adversely affected. NMHG’s actual liabilities relating to pending lawsuits may exceed its expectations. NMHG is a defendant in pending lawsuits involving, among other things, product liability claims. NMHG cannot be sure that it will succeed in defending these claims, that judgments will not be rendered against NMHG with respect to any or all of these proceedings or that reserves set aside or insurance policies will be adequate to cover any such judgments. The Company could incur a charge to earnings if reserves prove to be inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity for the period in which the charge is taken and any judgment or settlement amount is paid. NMHG has guaranteed, or is subject to repurchase or recourse obligations with respect to, financing arrangements of some of its customers. Through arrangements with GECC and others, dealers and other customers are provided financing for new lift trucks in the United States and in major countries of the world outside of the United States. Through these arrangements, NMHG’s dealers and certain customers are extended credit for the purchase of lift trucks to be placed in the dealer’s floor plan inventory or the financing of lift trucks that are sold or leased to customers. For some of these arrangements, NMHG provides standby recourse obligations, guarantees or repurchase obligations such that it would become obligated in the event of default by the dealer or customer. Total amounts subject to these types of obligations at December 31, 2005 were $216.2 million. Generally, NMHG maintains a perfected security interest in the assets financed such that, in the event that it becomes obligated under the terms of the standby recourse obligations, guarantees or repurchase obligations, it may take title to the assets financed. NMHG cannot be certain, however, that the security interest will equal or exceed the amount of the standby recourse obligations, guarantees or repurchase obligations. In addition, NMHG cannot be certain that losses under the terms of the standby recourse obligations, guarantees or repurchase obligations will not exceed the reserves that it has set aside in its consolidated financial statements. The Company could incur a charge to earnings if its reserves prove to be inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity for the period in which the charge is taken. NMHG is subject to risks relating to its foreign operations. Foreign operations represent a significant portion of NMHG’s business. NMHG expects revenue from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of NMHG’s total revenue. NMHG owns or leases manufacturing facilities in Brazil, Italy, Mexico, The Netherlands, Northern Ireland and Scotland, and owns interests in joint ventures with facilities in China, Japan and the Philippines. It also sells domestically produced products to foreign customers and sells foreign produced products to domestic customers. NMHG’s foreign operations are subject to additional risks, which include: 20 Table of Contents • potential political, economic and social instability in the foreign countries in which NMHG operates; • currency risks, see “The pricing and costs of NMHG’s products have been and may continue to be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations;” • imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls; • potential inflation in the applicable foreign economies; • imposition of or increases in import duties and other tariffs on NMHG’s products; • imposition of or increases in foreign taxation of earnings and withholding on payments received by NMHG from its subsidiaries; • regulatory changes affecting international operations; and • stringent labor regulations. Part of the strategy to expand NMHG’s worldwide market share and decrease costs is strengthening its international distribution network and sourcing basic components in foreign countries. Implementation of this strategy may increase the impact of the risks described above and there can be no assurance that such risks will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. NMHG‘s actual liabilities relating to environmental matters may exceed its expectations. NMHG’s manufacturing operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances. NMHG Retail’s operations are particularly affected by laws and regulations relating to the disposal of cleaning solvents and wastewater and the use of and disposal of petroleum products from underground and above-ground storage tanks. If NMHG fails to comply with these laws or its environmental permits, then it could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions. In addition, future changes to environmental laws could require NMHG to incur significant additional expense or restrict operations. In addition, NMHG’s products may be subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing vehicle exhaust. Regulatory agencies in the United States and Europe have issued or proposed various regulations and directives designed to reduce emissions from spark ignited engines and diesel engines used in off-road vehicles, such as industrial lift trucks. These regulations require NMHG and other lift truck manufacturers to incur costs to modify designs and manufacturing processes and to perform additional testing and reporting. NMHG is investigating or remediating historical contamination at some current and former sites caused by its operations or those of businesses it acquired. NMHG has also been named as a potentially responsible party for cleanup costs under the so-called Superfund law at several third-party sites where NMHG (or its predecessors) disposed of wastes in the past. Under the Superfund law and often under similar state laws, the entire cost of cleanup can be imposed on any one of the statutorily liable parties, without regard to fault. While NMHG is not currently aware that any material outstanding claims or obligations exist with regard to these sites, the discovery of additional contamination at these or other sites could result in significant cleanup costs that could have a material adverse effect on NMHG’s financial conditions and results of operations. In connection with any acquisition made by NMHG, NMHG could, under some circumstances, be held financially liable for or suffer other adverse effects due to environmental violations or contamination caused by prior owners of businesses NMHG has acquired. In addition, under some of the agreements through which NMHG has sold businesses or assets, NMHG has retained responsibility for certain contingent environmental liabilities arising from pre-closing operations. These liabilities may not arise, if at all, until years later and could require NMHG to incur significant additional expenses, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Housewares The increasing concentration of HB/PS’ household appliance customer base could negatively affect sales levels or profits. HB/PS sells a substantial quantity of its products to mass merchandisers, national department stores, variety store chains, drug store chains, specialty home retailers and other retail outlets. These retailers generally purchase a limited selection of small electric appliances. As a result, HB/PS competes for retail shelf space with its competitors. As the retail industry becomes more concentrated, competition for sales to these retailers may become greater. Also, in recent years some major retailers, including Kmart, have filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. If HB/PS were to lose any major retail customer or if other major retail customers were to go bankrupt, HB/PS might be unable to find alternate distribution sources. Any of the foregoing factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The appliance industry is consolidating, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s success. Over the past several years, the household appliance industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and further consolidation is likely. As a result of this consolidation, the household appliance industry could largely 21 Table of Contents consist of a limited number of large manufacturers. To the extent that HB/PS does not continue to be a major participant in the industry, its ability to compete effectively with these larger manufacturers could be negatively impacted. As a result, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Housewares is subject to risks relating to its dependence on Chinese sources for many of its products. Housewares obtains a substantial quantity of its products from sources in China. Dependence upon suppliers in China involves risks, which include: • potential political, economic and social instability in China; • regulatory issues involved in dealing with foreign suppliers and in exporting and importing products; • currency risks, see “The pricing and costs of NMHG’s products have been and may continue to be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations;” • uncertainties involving the ability to transport products to Chinese ports for distribution; and • uncertainties involving the costs to transport products from China. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Competition may materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The household appliance industry does not have onerous entry barriers. As a result, Housewares competes with many small manufacturers and distributors of housewares products. Additional competitors may also enter this market and cause competition to intensify. In particular, manufacturers and distributors of household appliances compete for shelf space allocated by retailers to their products. If Housewares fails to compete effectively with these smaller manufacturers and distributors, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company depends on consumer spending, which fluctuates for a variety of reasons, including seasonality. Sales of Housewares’ products are related to consumer spending. Any downturn in the general economy or a shift in consumer spending away from small electric appliances would adversely affect its business. In addition, the market for small electric appliances is highly seasonal in nature. Housewares often recognizes a substantial portion of its sales in the last half of the year. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of past operating results of Housewares are meaningful, if at all, only when comparing equivalent time periods. Any economic downturn, decrease in consumer spending or a shift in consumer spending away from small electric appliances could materially adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. North American Coal Termination of long-term mining sales contracts could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Substantially all of NACoal’s revenues and profits are derived from long-term mining sales contracts. The contracts for NACoal’s project mining subsidiaries permit the customer under some conditions of default to acquire the assets or stock of the project mining subsidiary for an amount roughly equal to book value. In one case, the customer may elect to acquire the stock of the subsidiary after a specified period of time, for any reason, in exchange for payments to NACoal on coal mined at that facility in the future. In addition, the customer of San Miguel can terminate the contract for convenience at any time. If any of NACoal’s long-term mining contracts were terminated, results of operations could be materially adversely affected to the extent that NACoal is unable to find alternative customers at the same level of profitability. NACoal’s unconsolidated project mining subsidiaries are subject to risks created by changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax rates. The contracts with the unconsolidated project mining subsidiaries’ utility customers allow each mine to sell lignite coal at a price based on actual cost plus an agreed pre-tax profit per ton. Unconsolidated project mining subsidiary customers pay on a cost-plus basis only for the coal that they consume and use. As a result, reduced coal usage by customers, including, but not limited to, unanticipated weather conditions and scheduled and unscheduled power plant outages, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Because of the contractual price formulas for the sale of coal and mining services by these unconsolidated project mining subsidiaries, the profitability of these operations is also subject to fluctuations in inflationary adjustments (or lack thereof) that can impact the per ton profit or management fee paid for the coal and taxes applicable to NACoal’s income on that coal. NACoal’s other mining operations, its consolidated mining operations, are subject to risks created by its capital investment in the mines, the costs of mining the coal and the dragline mining equipment, in addition to risks created by changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax rates. The consolidated mining operations are comprised of San Miguel, Red River, MLMC, royalties, dragline mining 22 Table of Contents services and other activities. The profitability of these consolidated mining operations is subject to the risk of loss of its investment in these mining operations, as well as increases in the cost of mining the coal. Because the costs of these consolidated mining operations are not passed on to its customers, increased costs at these operations would have an adverse effect on NACoal’s results of operations. NACoal’s operations are also subject to customer demand, including but not limited to fluctuations in demand due to unanticipated weather conditions, the emergence of unidentified adverse mining conditions, power plant outages, inflationary adjustments and tax risks described above with respect to its unconsolidated project mining subsidiaries. These factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Mining operations are vulnerable to weather and other conditions that are beyond the Company’s control. Many conditions beyond NACoal’s control can decrease the use of coal by customers. These conditions include weather, the emergence of unidentified adverse mining conditions and unexpected maintenance problems which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Government regulations could impose costly requirements on NACoal. The coal mining industry is subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities on matters concerning the health and safety of employees, land use, permit and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Legislation mandating certain benefits for current and retired coal miners also affects the industry. Mining operations require numerous governmental permits and approvals. NACoal is required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the impact that production of coal may have upon the environment. Compliance with these requirements may be costly and time-consuming. New legislation and/or regulations and orders may materially adversely affect NACoal’s mining operations or its cost structure. New legislation, including proposals related to environmental protection that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require NACoal or its customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Possible limitations on carbon emissions and requirements for a specific mix of fuel sources for energy generation methods may reduce potential coal demand. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. NACoal is subject to federal and state mining regulations, which place a burden on it. Federal and state statutes require NACoal to restore mine property in accordance with specified standards and an approved reclamation plan, and require that NACoal obtain and periodically renew permits for mining operations. Regulations require NACoal to incur the cost of reclaiming current mine disturbance. In addition, NACoal is subject to significant long-term liabilities relating to closed mines that had been operated by Bellaire, a non-operating subsidiary of NACCO. These liabilities reflect amounts owed to the Fund, arising as a result of the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992 (the “Coal Act”), which requires Bellaire to incur costs for medical expenses of some United Mine Workers retirees and their dependents. In 2002, the Company’s results of operations were adversely affected as a result of an extraordinary loss related to an estimated increase in Bellaire’s obligation to United Mine Workers, which was based primarily on a U.S. Supreme Court decision in January 2003. On July 15, 2003, the Fund filed suit against 214 companies, including Bellaire, seeking an increase in premiums paid to the Fund. During 2005, a summary judgment was granted that prohibits the Fund from applying the higher premium rate. The Fund has appealed the decision. Pending the outcome of this appeal, the Company estimates it could incur additional expense within an estimated range of $0 to $5.0 million. Since the outcome of this proceeding is uncertain, the Company has not revised its accrual. The Company recognized an extraordinary gain of $4.7 million, net of $2.5 million tax expense in 2005, $0.5 million, net of $0.2 million tax expense in 2004 and $1.8 million, net of $1.0 million tax expense in 2003, from lower estimated premium payment inflation and a lower estimated number of assigned beneficiaries due in part to increased mortality compared with previous estimates, resulting in a decrease in expected future obligations related to the Fund. Although the Company believes that appropriate accruals have been recorded for all expected reclamation and other costs associated with closed mines, future operating results would be adversely affected if accruals for these costs are later determined to be insufficient or if changed conditions, including adverse judicial proceedings or revised assumptions, require a change in these reserves. NACoal’s operations are impacted by the Clean Air Act Amendments on coal consumption. The Clean Air Act and corresponding state laws that regulate emissions of materials into the air, affect coal mining operations both directly and indirectly. Measures intended to improve air quality extensively regulate the emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and other substances by coal-fueled utility power plants, which are NACoal’s primary customers. Those measures could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative in the planning and building of utility power plants in the future. Any reduction in coal’s share of the capacity for power generation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. NACoal cannot predict how present or future regulations will affect the coal industry in general and NACoal in particular. It is possible that the new air quality standards under the Clean Air Act and any other future regulatory 23 Table of Contents provisions will materially increase the costs of doing business and reduce consumption of and demand for coal by NACoal’s customers. On May 18, 2005, the EPA published the CAMR which regulates the emission of mercury from coal-fired power plants. CAMR is a two phase cap and trade regulation with phase 1 being implemented in 2010 and phase 2 in 2018. Affected electrical generating units will be able to meet these regulations by, among other things, switching to lower mercury fuels, installing mercury control devices or purchasing mercury emissions allowances. Mercury control devices are just beginning to be demonstrated on a commercial scale; therefore, their efficiency and cost of operation is uncertain at this time. The cost of controlling mercury emissions will be significant and emission allowances may become more expensive as their availability declines. Switching to other fuels may require expensive modifications to existing plants. The extent to which NACoal’s electric utility customers switch to lower mercury coal or other low-mercury fuel could materially affect the Company if NACoal cannot offset the cost of mercury removal by lowering the costs of delivery of its coal on an energy equivalent basis. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to offset these costs, which if incurred, could have a materially adverse effect on its results of operations. Legislation that could regulate other air pollutants, including carbon dioxide, have been proposed. While the details of all of these proposed initiatives vary, there appears to be a movement towards increased regulation of power plant air pollutants. If any of these initiatives were enacted into law, power plants could choose to shift away from coal as a fuel source to meet these requirements. Because coal mining operations emit particulate matter, NACoal’s mining operations may be affected directly when the states revise their implementation plans to comply with the stricter standards for particulate matter and ozone. State and federal regulations relating to the new standards may restrict NACoal’s ability to develop new mines or could require it to modify its existing operations. The extent of the potential direct impact of the new standards on the coal industry will depend on the policies and control strategies associated with the state implementation process, but could increase NACoal’s costs of doing business and materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. NACoal is subject to the high costs and risks involved in the development of new coal and dragline mining projects. From time to time, NACoal seeks to develop new coal and dragline mining projects. The costs and risks associated with such projects can be substantial. General The Company may become subject to claims under foreign laws and regulations, which may be expensive, time consuming and distracting. Because the Company has employees, property and business operations outside of the United States, the Company is subject to the laws and the court systems of many jurisdictions. The Company may become subject to claims outside the United States based in foreign jurisdictions for violations of their laws with respect to the foreign operations of NMHG and Housewares. In addition, these laws may be changed or new laws may be enacted in the future. International litigation is often expensive, time consuming and distracting. As a result, any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of key personnel could impair the Company’s success. The Company benefits from the leadership and experience of its senior management team and depends on its continued services in order to successfully conduct its business. The loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The amount and frequency of dividend payments made on NACCO’s common stock could change. The Board of Directors has the power to determine the amount and frequency of the payment of dividends. Decisions regarding whether or not to pay dividends and the amount of any dividends are based on earnings, capital, future expense requirements, financial conditions, contractual limitations and other factors that the Board of Directors may consider. Accordingly, holders of NACCO’s common stock should not rely on past payments of dividends in a particular amount as an indication of the amount of dividends that will be paid in the future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 