Item 1A. RISK FACTORS NMHG The cost of raw materials used by NMHG’s products has and may continue to fluctuate, which could materially reduce the Company’s profitability. At times, NMHG Wholesale has experienced significant increases in its materials costs, primarily as a result of global increases in industrial metals including steel, lead and copper and other commodity prices including rubber, as a result of increased demand and limited supply. NMHG manufactures products that include raw materials that consist of steel, rubber, castings and counterweights. NMHG also purchases parts provided by suppliers that are manufactured from castings and steel or contain lead. The cost of these parts is impacted by the same economic conditions that impact the cost of the parts that NMHG manufactures. The cost to manufacture lift trucks and related service parts has been and will continue to be affected by fluctuations in prices for these raw materials. If costs of these raw materials increase, the Company’s profitability could be reduced. The pricing and costs of NMHG’s products have been and may continue to be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, which could materially increase the Company’s costs, result in material exchange losses and materially reduce operating margins. Because NMHG conducts transactions in various foreign currencies, including the euro, the British pound sterling, the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen, its lift truck pricing is subject to the effects of fluctuations in the value of these foreign currencies and fluctuations in the related currency exchange rates. As a result, NMHG’s sales have historically been affected by, and may continue to be affected by, these fluctuations. In addition, exchange rate movements between currencies in which NMHG purchases materials and components and manufactures certain of its products and the currencies in which NMHG sells those products have been affected by and may continue to result in exchange losses that could materially reduce operating margins. Furthermore, NMHG’s hedging contracts may not offset current risks from changes in currency exchange rates. NMHG’s lift truck business is cyclical. Any downturn in the general economy could result in significant decreases in the Company’s revenue and profitability and an inability to sustain or grow the business. NMHG’s lift truck business historically has been cyclical. Fluctuations in the rate of orders for lift trucks reflect the capital investment decisions of NMHG’s customers, which depend to a certain extent on the general level of economic activity in the various industries that the lift truck customers serve. During economic downturns, customers tend to delay new lift truck and parts purchases. Consequently, NMHG has experienced, and in the future may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in its revenues and net income. If there is a downturn in the general economy, or in the industries served by NMHG’s lift truck customers, the Company’s revenue and profitability could decrease significantly and the Company may not be able to sustain or grow the business. NMHG depends on a limited number of suppliers for specific critical components. NMHG depends on a limited number of suppliers for some of its critical components, including diesel and gasoline engines and cast-iron counterweights used to counterbalance some lift trucks. Some of these critical components are imported and subject to regulation, such as inspection by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The Company’s results of operations could 18 Table of Contents be adversely affected if NMHG is unable to obtain these critical components, or if the costs of these critical components were to increase significantly, due to regulatory compliance or otherwise, and NMHG was unable to pass the cost increases on to its customers. If the capital goods market worsens, the cost saving efforts implemented by NMHG may not be sufficient to achieve the benefits NMHG expects. If the economy or the capital goods market declines, NMHG’s revenues could decline. If revenues are lower than expected, the programs implemented at NMHG may not achieve the benefits NMHG expects. Furthermore, NMHG may be forced to take additional cost savings steps that could result in additional charges that materially adversely affect its ability to compete or implement its current business strategies. If NMHG’s current cost reduction and efficiency programs, including the introduction of new products, does not prove effective, the Company’s revenues, profitability and market share could be significantly reduced. Changes in the timing of implementation of its current cost reduction, efficiency and new product programs may result in a delay in the expected recognition of future costs and realization of future benefits. As such, if future industry demand levels are lower than historical industry demand cycles would indicate, the actual annual cost savings could be lower than expected. If NMHG is unable to successfully implement these programs, the Company’s revenues, profitability and market share could be significantly reduced. The failure of NMHG to compete effectively within its industry could result in a significant decrease in the Company’s revenues and profitability. NMHG experiences intense competition in the sale of lift trucks and aftermarket parts. Competition in the lift truck industry is based primarily on strength and quality of dealers, brand loyalty, customer service, new lift truck sales prices, availability of products and aftermarket parts, comprehensive product line offerings, product performance, product quality and features and the cost of ownership over the life of the lift truck. NMHG competes with several global full-line manufacturers that operate in all major markets. These manufacturers may have greater financial resources and less debt than NMHG, which may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions, and lower costs of manufacturing. If NMHG fails to compete effectively, the Company’s revenues and profitability could be significantly reduced. NMHG relies primarily on its network of independent dealers to sell its lift trucks and aftermarket parts and has no direct control over sales by those dealers to customers. Ineffective or poor performance by these independent dealers could result in a significant decrease in the Company’s revenues and profitability and an inability by NMHG to sustain or grow the business. NMHG relies primarily on independent dealers for sales of its lift trucks and aftermarket parts. Sales of NMHG’s products are therefore subject to the quality and effectiveness of the dealers, who are generally not subject to NMHG’s direct control. As a result, ineffective or poorly performing dealers could result in a significant decrease in the Company’s revenues and profitability and NMHG may not be able to sustain or grow its business. NMHG‘s actual liabilities relating to pending lawsuits may exceed its expectations. NMHG is a defendant in pending lawsuits involving, among other things, product liability claims. NMHG cannot be sure that it will succeed in defending these claims, that judgments will not be rendered against NMHG with respect to any or all of these proceedings or that reserves set aside or insurance policies will be adequate to cover any such judgments. The Company could incur a charge to earnings if reserves prove to be inadequate or the average cost per claim or the number of claims exceed estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity for the period in which the charge is taken and any judgment or settlement amount is paid. NMHG has guaranteed, or is subject to repurchase or recourse obligations with respect to, financing arrangements of some of its customers. Through arrangements with GECC and others, dealers and other customers are provided financing for new lift trucks in the United States and in major countries of the world outside of the United States. Through these arrangements, NMHG’s dealers and certain customers are extended credit for the purchase of lift trucks to be placed in the dealer’s floor plan inventory or the financing of lift trucks that are sold or leased to customers. For some of these arrangements, NMHG provides standby recourse obligations, guarantees or repurchase obligations such that it would become obligated in the event of default by the dealer or customer. Total amounts subject to these types of obligations at December 31, 2007 were $251.7 million. Generally, NMHG maintains a perfected security interest in the assets financed such that, in the event that it becomes obligated under the terms of the standby recourse obligations, guarantees or repurchase obligations, it may take title to the assets financed. NMHG cannot be certain, however, that the security interest will equal or exceed the amount of the standby recourse obligations, guarantees or repurchase obligations. In addition, NMHG cannot be certain that losses under the terms of the standby recourse obligations, guarantees or repurchase obligations will not exceed the reserves that it has set aside in its consolidated financial statements. The Company could incur a charge to earnings if its reserves prove to be inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity for the period in which the charge is taken. 19 Table of Contents NMHG is subject to risks relating to its foreign operations. Foreign operations represent a significant portion of NMHG’s business. NMHG expects revenue from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of NMHG’s total revenue. NMHG owns or leases manufacturing facilities in Brazil, Italy, Mexico, The Netherlands, Northern Ireland and Scotland, and owns interests in joint ventures with facilities in China, Japan and the Philippines. It also sells domestically produced products to foreign customers and sells foreign produced products to domestic customers. NMHG’s foreign operations are subject to additional risks, which include: • potential political, economic and social instability in the foreign countries in which NMHG operates; • currency risks, see the risk factor titled “The pricing and costs of NMHG’s products have been and may continue to be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, which could materially increase the Company’s costs, result in material exchange losses and materially reduce operating margins;” • imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls; • potential inflation in the applicable foreign economies; • imposition of or increases in import duties and other tariffs on NMHG’s products; • imposition of or increases in foreign taxation of earnings and withholding on payments received by NMHG from its subsidiaries; • regulatory changes affecting international operations; and • stringent labor regulations. Part of the strategy to expand NMHG’s worldwide market share and decrease costs is strengthening its international distribution network and sourcing basic components in foreign countries. Implementation of this strategy may increase the impact of the risks described above and there can be no assurance that such risks will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, profitability or market share. NMHG‘s actual liabilities relating to environmental matters may exceed its expectations. NMHG’s manufacturing operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances. NMHG Retail’s operations are particularly affected by laws and regulations relating to the disposal of cleaning solvents and wastewater and the use of and disposal of petroleum products from underground and above-ground storage tanks. If NMHG fails to comply with these laws or its environmental permits, then it could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions. In addition, future changes to environmental laws could require NMHG to incur significant additional expense or restrict operations. In addition, NMHG’s products may be subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing vehicle exhausts. Regulatory agencies in the United States and Europe have issued or proposed various regulations and directives designed to reduce emissions from spark ignited engines and diesel engines used in off-road vehicles, such as industrial lift trucks. These regulations require NMHG and other lift truck manufacturers to incur costs to modify designs and manufacturing processes and to perform additional testing and reporting. NMHG is investigating or remediating historical contamination at some current and former sites caused by its operations or those of businesses it acquired. NMHG has also been named as a potentially responsible party for cleanup costs under the so-called Superfund law at several third-party sites where NMHG (or its predecessors) disposed of wastes in the past. Under the Superfund law and often under similar state laws, the entire cost of cleanup can be imposed on any one of the statutorily liable parties, without regard to fault. While NMHG is not currently aware that any material outstanding claims or obligations exist with regard to these sites, the discovery of additional contamination at these or other sites could result in significant cleanup costs that could have a material adverse effect on NMHG’s financial conditions and results of operations. In connection with any acquisition made by NMHG, NMHG could, under some circumstances, be held financially liable for or suffer other adverse effects due to environmental violations or contamination caused by prior owners of businesses NMHG has acquired. In addition, under some of the agreements through which NMHG has sold businesses or assets, NMHG has retained responsibility for certain contingent environmental liabilities arising from pre-closing operations. These liabilities may not arise, if at all, until years later and could require NMHG to incur significant additional expenses, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. NMHG may not be able to extend its joint venture and operating agreements with GECC. NMHG is engaged in a joint venture with GECC to provide dealer and customer financing of new lift trucks in the United States. In addition, NMHG has entered into an operating agreement with GECC under which GECC provides leasing and financing services to Hyster® and Yale® dealers and their customers outside of the United States. These agreements expire December 31, 2008. If NMHG is unsuccessful in either extending or entering into new agreements with GECC upon the expiration of these contracts, the Company’s profitability could decrease in the event NMHG is required to find alternative sources of financing for its dealers and customers. 20 Table of Contents Housewares HBB depends on third-party suppliers for the manufacturing of all of its products, which subjects the Company to risks, including unanticipated increases in expenses, decreases in revenues and disruptions in the supply chain. HBB is dependent on third-party suppliers for the manufacturing of all of its products. HBB’s ability to select reliable suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact its success in meeting customer demand. Any inability of HBB’s suppliers to timely deliver products or any unanticipated changes in suppliers could be disruptive and costly to the Company. Any significant failure by HBB to obtain products on a timely basis at an affordable cost or any significant delays or interruptions of supply would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. Because HBB’s suppliers are primarily based in China and Mexico, international operations subject the Company to additional risks including, among others: • currency fluctuations; • labor unrest; • potential political, economic and social instability; • lack of developed infrastructure; • restrictions on transfers of funds; • import and export duties and quotas; • changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs; • uncertainties involving the costs to transport products; • long distance shipping routes dependent upon a small group of shipping and rail carriers; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • regulatory issues involved in dealing with foreign suppliers and in exporting and importing products; • difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. The foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on HBB’s ability to maintain or increase the supply of products, which may result in material increases in expenses and decreases in revenues. Increases in costs of products may materially reduce the Company’s profitability. Factors that are largely beyond the Company’s control, such as movements in commodity prices for the raw materials needed by suppliers of HBB’s products, may affect the cost of products, and HBB may not be able to pass those costs on to its customers. As an example, HBB’s products require a substantial amount of plastic. Because the primary resource used in plastic is petroleum, the cost and availability of plastic varies to a great extent with the price of petroleum. In recent years, the prices of petroleum, as well as steel, aluminum and copper have increased significantly. These price increases may materially reduce the Company’s profitability. HBB is dependent on key customers and the loss of, or significant decline in business from, one or more of its key customers could materially reduce its revenues and profitability and its ability to sustain or grow its business. HBB relies on several key customers. Its five largest customers accounted for approximately 58%, 57% and 58% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 37%, 37% and 39% of HBB’s net sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Although HBB has long-established relationships with many customers, it does not have any long-term supply contracts with these customers, and purchases are generally made using individual purchase orders. A loss of any key customer could result in significant decreases in HBB’s revenues and profitability and an inability to sustain or grow its business. HBB must receive a continuous flow of new orders from its large, high-volume retail customers; however, it may be unable to continually meet the needs of those customers. In addition, failure to obtain anticipated orders or delays or cancellations of orders or significant pressure to reduce prices from key customers could impair its ability to sustain or grow its business. As a result of dependence on its key customers, HBB could experience a material adverse effect on its revenues and profitability if any of the following were to occur: • the insolvency or bankruptcy of any key customer; • a declining market in which customers materially reduce orders or demand lower prices; or • a strike or work stoppage at a key customer facility, which could affect both its suppliers and customers. If HBB were to lose, or experience a significant decline in business from, any major retail customer or if any major retail customers were to go bankrupt, HBB might be unable to find alternate distribution sources. 21 Table of Contents Housewares’ business is sensitive to the strength of the U.S. retail market and weakness in this market could adversely affect its business. The strength of the retail economy in the United States has a significant impact on Housewares’ performance. Weakness in consumer confidence and poor financial performance by mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, department stores or any of Housewares’ other customers would result in lost revenues. A general slowdown in the retail sector would result in additional pricing and marketing support pressures on Housewares. The increasing concentration of HBB’s small electric household appliance sales among a few retailers and the trend toward private label brands could materially reduce revenues and profitability. With the growing trend towards the concentration of HBB’s small electric household appliance sales among a few retailers, HBB is increasingly dependent upon fewer customers whose bargaining strength is growing as a result of this concentration. HBB sells a substantial quantity of products to mass merchandisers, national department stores, variety store chains, drug store chains, specialty home retailers and other retail outlets. These retailers generally purchase a limited selection of small electric household appliances. As a result, HBB competes for retail shelf space with its competitors. In addition, certain of HBB’s larger customers use their own private label brands on household appliances that compete directly with some of HBB’s products. As the retailers in the small electric household appliance industry become more concentrated, competition for sales to these retailers may increase, which could materially reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. The small electric household and commercial appliance industry is consolidating, which could reduce HBB’s ability to successfully secure product placements at key customers and limit its ability to sustain a cost competitive position in the industry. Over the past several years, the small electric household and commercial appliance industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and further consolidation is likely. As a result of this consolidation, the small electric household and commercial appliance industry primarily consists of a limited number of large distributors. To the extent that HBB does not continue to be a major participant in the small electric household and commercial appliance industry, its ability to compete effectively with these larger distributors could be negatively impacted. As a result, this condition could reduce HBB’s ability to successfully secure product placements at key customers and limit the ability to sustain a cost competitive position in the industry. HBB’s inability to compete effectively with competitors in its industry, including large established companies with greater resources, could result in lost market share and decreased revenues. The small electric household and commercial appliance industry does not have onerous entry barriers. As a result, HBB competes with many small manufacturers and distributors of housewares products. Additional competitors may also enter this market and cause competition to intensify. For example, some of HBB’s customers have expressed interest in sourcing, or expanding the extent of sourcing, small electric household and commercial appliances directly from manufacturers in Asia. The Company believes that competition is based upon several factors, including product design and innovation, quality, price, product features, merchandising, promotion and warranty. If HBB fails to compete effectively with these manufacturers and distributors, it could lose market share and experience a decrease in revenues, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. HBB also competes with established companies, a number of which have substantially greater facilities, personnel, financial and other resources. In addition, HBB competes with retail customers, who use their own private label brands, and importers and foreign manufacturers of unbranded products. Some competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with HBB. As a result of this competition, HBB could lose market share and revenues. The market for Housewares’ products is highly seasonal and dependent on consumer spending, which could result in significant variations in the Company’s revenues and profitability. Sales of Housewares’ products are related to consumer spending. Any downturn in the general economy or a shift in consumer spending away from small electric household appliances would adversely affect its business. In addition, the market for small electric household appliances is highly seasonal in nature. Housewares often recognizes a substantial portion of its sales in the last half of the year. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of past operating results of HBB are meaningful, if at all, only when comparing equivalent time periods. Any economic downturn, decrease in consumer spending or a shift in consumer spending away from small electric household appliances could significantly reduce revenues and profitability. North American Coal Termination of long-term mining sales contracts could materially reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. Substantially all of NACoal’s revenues and profits are derived from long-term mining sales contracts. The contracts for NACoal’s project mining subsidiaries permit the customer under some conditions of default to acquire the assets or stock of the project mining subsidiary for an amount roughly equal to book value. In one case, the customer may elect to acquire the stock of the subsidiary upon a specified period of prior notice, for any reason, in exchange for payments to NACoal on coal mined at that facility in the future. If any of NACoal’s long-term mining contracts were terminated, revenues and 22 Table of Contents profitability could be materially reduced to the extent that NACoal is unable to find alternative customers at the same level of profitability. NACoal’s unconsolidated project mining subsidiaries are subject to risks created by changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax rates. The contracts with the unconsolidated project mining subsidiaries’ utility customers allow each mine to sell lignite coal at a price based on actual cost plus an agreed pre-tax profit per ton. Unconsolidated project mining subsidiary customers pay on a cost-plus basis only for the coal that they consume and use. As a result, reduced coal usage by customers, including, but not limited to, unanticipated weather conditions and scheduled and unscheduled power plant outages, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Because of the contractual price formulas for the sale of coal and mining services by these unconsolidated project mining subsidiaries, the profitability of these operations is also subject to fluctuations in inflationary adjustments (or lack thereof) that can impact the per ton profit or management fee paid for the coal and taxes applicable to NACoal’s income on that coal. NACoal’s other mining operations, including its consolidated mining operations, are subject to risks created by its capital investment in the mines, the costs of mining the coal and the dragline mining equipment, in addition to risks created by changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax rates. The consolidated mining operations are comprised of San Miguel, Red River, MLMC, dragline mining services, royalties from mineral leases to other mining companies and other activities. The profitability of these consolidated mining operations is subject to the risk of loss of its investment in these mining operations, as well as increases in the cost of mining the coal. Except at San Miguel, the costs of the consolidated mining operations are not passed on to its customers. As such, increased costs at these operations would materially reduce NACoal’s profitability. NACoal’s operations are also subject to customer demand, including but not limited to fluctuations in demand due to unanticipated weather conditions, the emergence of unidentified adverse mining conditions, power plant outages, inflationary adjustments and tax risks described above with respect to its unconsolidated project mining subsidiaries. These factors could materially reduce NACoal’s profitability. Mining operations are vulnerable to weather and other conditions that are beyond NACoal’s control. Many conditions beyond NACoal’s control can decrease the delivery, and therefore the use, of lignite coal to NACoal’s customers. These conditions include weather, the emergence of unidentified adverse mining conditions, unexpected maintenance problems and increased costs of replacement parts which could significantly reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. Government regulations could impose costly requirements on NACoal. The coal mining industry is subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities on matters concerning the health and safety of employees, land use, permit and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Legislation mandating certain benefits for current and retired coal miners also affects the industry. Mining operations require numerous governmental permits and approvals. NACoal is required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the impact that production of coal may have upon the environment. Compliance with these requirements may be costly and time-consuming. New legislation and/or regulations and orders may materially adversely affect NACoal’s mining operations or its cost structure. New legislation, including proposals related to environmental protection that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require NACoal or its customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Possible limitations on carbon emissions and requirements for a specific mix of fuel sources for energy generation methods may reduce potential coal demand. All of these factors could significantly reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. NACoal is subject to federal and state mining regulations, which place a burden on it. Federal and state statutes require NACoal to restore mine property in accordance with specified standards and an approved reclamation plan, and require that NACoal obtain and periodically renew permits for mining operations. Regulations require NACoal to incur the cost of reclaiming current mine disturbance. Although the Company believes that appropriate accruals have been recorded for all expected reclamation and other costs associated with closed mines, future profitability would be adversely affected if accruals for these costs are later determined to be insufficient or if changed conditions, including adverse judicial proceedings or revised assumptions, require a change in these reserves. NACoal’s operations are impacted by the Clean Air Act Amendments on coal consumption. The Clean Air Act and corresponding state laws that regulate emissions of materials into the air, affect coal mining operations both directly and indirectly. Measures intended to improve air quality extensively regulate the emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and other substances by coal-fueled utility power plants, which are NACoal’s primary customers. Those measures could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative in the planning and building of utility power plants in the future. Any reduction in coal’s share of the capacity for power generation could significantly reduce the 23 Table of Contents Company’s revenues and profitability. NACoal cannot predict how present or future regulations will affect the coal industry in general and NACoal in particular. It is possible that the new air quality standards under the Clean Air Act and any other future regulatory provisions will materially increase the costs of doing business and reduce consumption of and demand for coal by NACoal’s customers. In May 2005, the EPA published the CAMR which regulates the emission of mercury from coal-fired power plants. CAMR is a two phase cap and trade regulation with phase one being implemented in 2010 and phase two in 2018. Affected electrical generating units will be able to meet these regulations by, among other things, switching to lower mercury fuels, installing mercury control devices or purchasing mercury emissions allowances. Mercury control devices are just beginning to be demonstrated on a commercial scale; therefore, their efficiency and cost of operation is uncertain at this time. On February 8, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit struck down the CAMR, on the grounds that the EPA did not follow the appropriate process under the Clean Air Act to reverse the decision to list coal-fired power plants as a category of sources for regulation under the hazardous air pollutant provisions of the Clean Air Act. It is uncertain at this time if the EPA will appeal the decision. If the Court’s decision striking down the CAMR is upheld, it will result in more stringent regulation of mercury emissions from all coal-fired power plants. The extent of the affect on these plants will depend upon the type of control technology that the EPA requires and whether the EPA subcategorizes coal by rank. Lignite coal typically has a greater mercury content than higher rank coals; consequently, failure by the EPA to subcategorize coals by rank could have a disproportionately adverse affect on plants that burn lignite coal and the demand for lignite coal may decrease. Mercury control devices are just beginning to be demonstrated on a commercial scale; therefore, their efficiency and cost of operation is uncertain at this time. The cost of controlling mercury emissions will be significant and emission allowances may become more expensive as their availability declines. Switching to other fuels may require expensive modifications to existing plants. The extent to which NACoal’s electric utility customers switch to lower mercury coal or other low-mercury fuel could materially affect the Company if NACoal cannot offset the cost of mercury removal by lowering the costs of delivery of its coal on an energy equivalent basis. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to offset these costs, which if incurred, could significantly reduce the Company’s profitability. The EPA promulgated the CAIR in May 2005. This rule requires reduction of nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxides in 29 eastern states including Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. CAIR requires more reductions in the emissions from power plants than the acid rain program, which is the current emission control regulation. Affected power plants will be required to install emission control devices, switch to lower emission fuels, or purchase emission allowances. The EPA promulgated the CAVR in June 2005. This rule requires power plants not covered by CAIR to install Best Available Retrofit Technology equipment to control emissions that cause haze and reduce visibility. The emissions include sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and fine particulate matter. Legislation that could regulate other air pollutants, including carbon dioxide, has been proposed. While the details of all of these proposed initiatives vary, there appears to be a movement towards increased regulation of power plant air pollutants. If any of these initiatives were enacted into law, power plants could choose to shift away from coal as a fuel source to meet these requirements. Because coal mining operations emit particulate matter, NACoal’s mining operations may be affected directly when the states revise their implementation plans to comply with the stricter standards for particulate matter and ozone. State and federal regulations relating to the new standards may restrict NACoal’s ability to develop new mines or could require it to modify its existing operations. The extent of the potential direct impact of the new standards on the coal industry will depend on the policies and control strategies associated with the state implementation process, but could increase NACoal’s costs of doing business and significantly reduce the Company’s profitability. NACoal is subject to the high costs and risks involved in the development of new coal and dragline mining projects. From time to time, NACoal seeks to develop new coal and dragline mining projects. The costs and risks associated with such projects can be substantial. General The Company may become subject to claims under foreign laws and regulations, which may be expensive, time consuming and distracting. Because the Company has employees, property and business operations outside of the United States, the Company is subject to the laws and the court systems of many jurisdictions. The Company may become subject to claims outside the United States based in foreign jurisdictions for violations of their laws with respect to the foreign operations of NMHG and HBB. In addition, these laws may be changed or new laws may be enacted in the future. International litigation is often expensive, time consuming and distracting. As a result, any of these risks could significantly reduce the Company’s profitability and its ability to operate its businesses effectively. 24 Table of Contents The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could significantly reduce its profitability. The Company is highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of its respective key personnel and the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important to the successful conduct of the Company’s business. Therefore, the Company’s success also depends upon its ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. The Company’s inability to hire and retain personnel with the requisite skills could impair its ability to manage and operate its business effectively and could significantly reduce its profitability. The amount and frequency of dividend payments made on NACCO’s common stock could change. The Board of Directors has the power to determine the amount and frequency of the payment of dividends. Decisions regarding whether or not to pay dividends and the amount of any dividends are based on earnings, capital and future expense requirements, financial conditions, contractual limitations and other factors the Board of Directors may consider. Accordingly, holders of NACCO’s common stock should not rely on past payments of dividends in a particular amount as an indication of the amount of dividends that will be paid in the future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 