Risk Factors CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD - LOOKING INFORMATION AND CERTAIN IMPORTANT FACTORS In this Annual Report on Form 10-K we make, and from time to time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we invoke the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: Risks Related to Our Business Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, which may continue indefinitely or intensify, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. The current disruptions in the capital and credit markets may continue indefinitely or intensify, and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our businesses or conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments, as well as our ability to effectively hedge our currency or interest rate. Such disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may not be able to secure financing needed for future operating needs on acceptable terms, or on any terms at all. From time to time, we may seek additional financing to provide the capital required to maintain or expand our exploration activities and mining facilities, and equipment and/or working capital, as well as repay outstanding loans if cash flow from operations is insufficient to do so. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or amount of any such capital requirements. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired, and our operating results may suffer. If we are able to incur debt, we may be subject to certain restrictions imposed by the terms of the debt and the repayment of such debt may limit our cash flow and our ability to grow. If we are unable to incur debt, we may be forced to issue additional equity, which could have a dilutive effect on the then current holders of equity. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers. Our business will be harmed if our customers reduce their orders from us. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from only a small number of customers mainly in the iron and steel and fluorite chemical industries. Dependence on a few customers could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single dominant customer stops purchasing our products. If we lose any customers and are unable to replace them with other customers that purchase a similar number of our products and services, our revenues and net income would decline considerably. We may not have sufficient supply of nonferrous ore. Qianzhen Mining, one of our subsidiaries, has a 200,000 metric tons/year processing capacity for zinc-lead ore. However, it does not process any ore due to lack of ore supplied from the third parties. Its contracts with third party ore suppliers expired in June 2008. It currently does not have a third party supplier and may require third party suppliers in the future. Although we plan to increase the quantity of nonferrous metal ore at Qingshan Metal to replace third party suppliers, we may not be able to produce a sufficient quantity or quality to ensure the supply of ore for Qianzhen Mining. As a result, our revenues may be reduced and our business could suffer. 10 Inclement weather may affect our fluorite business. Our fluorite business is conducted through Xiangzhen Mining which is located in an outlying area on the border between China’s Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and Mongolia. The weather conditions there are very harsh, especially in winter. If there are strong snow storms or other inclement weather conditions, our fluorite mining operations may have to be suspended for an indefinite period of time and we may not be able to ship our fluorite products to our customers in a timely manner. As a result, our revenues may be adversely affected. Our administrative costs could affect our ability to be profitable. Our exploration and mining operations are scattered across several geographical locations in China and we plan to make acquisition of mines in the future. Our administrative costs may increase as a result and our profitability may be adversely affected. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel. We depend on the services of key executives and a small number of personnel focused on the development of our mining projects. Additionally, the number of persons skilled in the development and operation of mining properties is limited and significant competition exists for these individuals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to employ key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance to cover our executive officers. Due to the relatively small size of our company, our failure to retain or attract key personnel may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development of our projects, which could adversely affect our business. We may not be able to attract and retain the additional personnel we will need to develop any of our projects. We are a small company with a limited operating history and relatively few employees. The development of any of our proposed projects will place substantial demands upon us. We will be required to recruit additional personnel and to train, motivate and manage these new employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. We may not be able to obtain or renew licenses, rights and permits required to develop or operate our mines, which would adversely affect our business. In the ordinary course of business, mining companies are required to seek governmental permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations. In addition to requiring permits for the development of our mines, we will need to obtain various mining permits during the life of each project. Obtaining and renewing the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process. Obtaining or renewing the necessary permits may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. There can be no assurance that all necessary permits will be obtained and, if obtained, will be renewed, or that in each case the costs involved will not exceed our estimates. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with compliance with such standards and regulations could become such that we would not proceed with the development or operation of a mine or mines. Any material inaccuracies in our production estimates could adversely affect our results of operations. In preparing estimates of future production, we cannot assure you that we will ever achieve our production estimates or any production at all. Our production estimates depend on, among other things: ● the accuracy of our mineralization and reserves estimates; ● the accuracy of assumptions regarding ore grades and recovery rates; ● ground conditions and physical characteristics of the mineralization, such as hardness and the presence or absence of particular metallurgical characteristics; ● the accuracy of estimated rates and costs of mining and processing; and ● our ability to obtain and keep effective all permits for our mines and facilities. Our actual production may vary from our estimates if any of our assumptions prove to be incorrect, which may adversely affect our business. 11 We may seek to make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources. We may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of related businesses and assets. We may not be able to complete any acquisition on favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions present risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance, including: ● the diversion of our management’s attention from our everyday business activities; ● the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business; and ● the need to expand management, administration, and operational systems. If we make such acquisitions we cannot predict whether: ● we will be able to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of any new businesses into our business; ● we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or ● there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions, including potential costs associated with environmental liabilities undiscovered at the time of acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in: ● potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; ● the incurrence of additional debt; ● restructuring charges; and ● the recognition of significant charges for depreciation and amortization related to intangible assets. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure, impeding our ability to meet any increased demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for our products. Our planned growth includes the expansion of our exploration and mining activities over the next few years. Although most of our management personnel have extensive experience in the mining industry, their training is in mining operations rather than contemporary management principles. They may not be able to cope with the challenges presented by being a U.S. public company and the competitive business environment created by globalization. In addition, growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: ● the continued demand for our products from the iron and steel and fluorite chemical industries; ● our ability to successfully and rapidly expand our operations in response to potentially increasing demand; ● the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; ● rapid technological change; and ● the highly cyclical nature of the mining industry. If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our products, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost to those customers. Meeting any such increased demand will require us to expand our manufacturing facilities, to increase our ability to purchase raw materials, to increase the size of our work force, to expand our quality control capabilities and to increase the scale upon which we provide our products. Such demands would require more capital (including working capital) than we currently have and, as a result, we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers. 12 We will incur increased costs relating to corporate governance matters. As a public reporting company, we will need to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these laws and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to their requirements. Risks Related to Our Industry Fluctuations in the market price of fluorite and nonferrous metals could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The profitability of our operations will be directly related to the market price of the metals we mine and refine. The market prices of fluorite and nonferrous metals fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors also include fluctuations with respect to the rate of inflation, the exchange rates of the Renminbi and other currencies, interest rates, global or regional political and economic conditions, banking industry fluctuations, global and regional demand, production costs in major metal producing areas and other factors. Any decrease in the prices of the metals important to our operations would adversely impact our revenues, profits and cash flows. In particular, a sustained drop in prices could: ● cause suspension of our development and, ultimately, our mining operations, if such operations become economically infeasible at the then-prevailing prices, thus further reducing revenues; ● prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our agreements or under our permits and licenses, which could cause us to lose our interests in, or be forced to sell, our properties; and ● reduce available financing to us. Furthermore, the need to reassess the feasibility of any of our projects if metal prices decline could cause substantial delays or might interrupt operations until the reassessment can be completed. Mineral reserve calculations and life-of-mine plans using significantly lower metal prices could result in reduced estimates of mineral reserves and in material write-downs of our investment in mining properties and increased amortization, reclamation and closure charges. Mining is inherently dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, and any operating hazards could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mining involves various types of risks and hazards, including: environmental hazards, industrial accidents, metallurgical and other processing problems, unusual or unexpected rock formations, structure cave-in or slides, flooding, fires and interruption due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums and some types of insurance may be unavailable or too expensive to maintain. We may suffer a material adverse effect on our business and the value of our securities may decline if we incur losses related to any significant events that are not covered by our insurance policies. There is no guarantee that legal title to the properties in which we have an interest will not be challenged, which could result in the loss of our rights in those properties. The ownership and validity, or title, of mining claims are often uncertain and may be contested in China. A successful claim contesting our title or interest to a property could cause us to lose our rights to mine that property. In addition, the success of such a claimant could result in our not being compensated for our prior expenditures relating to the property. The mining industry is intensely competitive, and we may have difficulty effectively competing with other mining companies in the future. Mines have limited lives and, as a result, we must continually seek to replace and expand our reserves through the acquisition of new properties. Significant competition exists for the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing fluorite and nonferrous metals. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring additional mining properties because we must compete with other individuals and companies, many of which may have greater financial resources and larger technical staffs than us. As a result of this competition, we may be unable to acquire attractive mining properties on acceptable terms. 13 Shortages of critical parts, equipment and skilled labor may adversely affect our development projects. The industry has been impacted by increased worldwide demand for critical resources such as input commodities, drilling equipment, tires and skilled labor. These shortages have caused and may continue to cause unanticipated cost increases and delays in delivery times, potentially impacting operating costs, capital expenditures and production schedules, which would adversely affect our business. Costs estimates and timing of new projects are uncertain. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. There are a number of factors that can affect costs and construction schedules, including, among others: ● availability of labor, power, transportation, commodities and infrastructure; ● increases in input commodity prices and labor costs; ● fluctuations in exchange rates; ● availability of financing; ● difficulty of estimating construction costs over a period of years; and ● delays in obtaining environmental or other government permits. Uncertainties or incorrect assumptions may cause unanticipated cost increases and delays in development, potentially impacting operating costs, capital expenditures and production schedules, which would adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business may be adversely affected by incidents of political unrest such as those in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. On July 5, 2009 in Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous region, political unrest and violence erupted due to ethnic conflicts between the minority Uygur and the Han Chinese. One of our mines, Xingzhen Mining, is located in the Aletai Zone, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. During this unrest, transportation in Xinjiang was affected. Our purchased raw materials could not be timely moved into our mining site and our products could not be moved out of the site for sale. Our operations and business may be adversely affected should such similar unrest occur in the regions in which we operate. Our business will be affected by PRC government regulation and the PRC’s overall economic environment. Although we export products to other countries, most of our sales are in the PRC. It is anticipated that our products in China will continue to represent a significant portion of our sales in the near future. As a result of our reliance on the Chinese markets, our operating results and financial performance could be affected by any adverse changes in economic, political and social conditions in China. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to compliance or non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any changes in applicable laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business. The economy of the PRC is transitioning from a planned economy to a market oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reforms, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by the Chinese government. For example, all land is state owned and are leased to business entities or individuals through governmental granting of state-owned land use rights or mining and exploration rights. The granting process is typically based on government policies at the time of granting and can be lengthy and complex. This process may adversely affect our future business expansion. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over the PRC’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Uncertainties may arise with the changing of governmental policies and measures. At present, our mining and exploration activities are subject to approvals from the relevant government authorities in China. Such governmental approval processes are typically lengthy and complex, and involve uncertainties. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property, work safety, labor protection, and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we hold in Chinese properties. 14 Certain political and economic considerations relating to the PRC could adversely affect us. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some changes that could have this effect are: ● level of government involvement in the economy; ● control of foreign exchange; ● methods of allocating resources; ● balance of payments position; ● international trade restrictions; and ● international conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economics of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. The economic reforms in China have been conducted under a tight control of the Chinese government. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the economy of the PRC may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our products and our business. Although the economy of the PRC has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC could materially reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. However, in 2009, the inflation rate in China experienced a decline. Expansion and inflation have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. Higher inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the end market for our products. In addition, due to the tightening of credit, we may have difficulties in securing funding from financial institutions in China, which could adversely affect our operations. 15 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Our revenues will be settled in Renminbi, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. Dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain such necessary governmental approval in China or that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. We may not be able to distribute our assets upon liquidation. Our assets are predominately located in China. Under the laws governing foreign investment enterprises in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to certain procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of liquidation. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC domestic residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a circular in October 2005 requiring PRC domestic residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the circular as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC domestic residents who are stockholders of offshore special purpose companies and have completed round trip investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident stockholders are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE branch in certain circumstances. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our stockholders who are PRC residents have made all required amendments and will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident stockholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, setting forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC individuals participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC individuals who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a qualified PRC agent or a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who might be granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. 16 We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. The PRC also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from companies and gain an advantage in securing business, or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, thus putting us at a disadvantage. Our employees, agents, representatives and consultants may not always be subject to our control. If any of them violates the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws, we might be held responsible, and we could be subject to severe penalties as a result. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability for FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or which we acquire. Our PRC subsidiaries are obligated to withhold and pay PRC individual income tax in respect of the salaries and certain other income received by their employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If our PRC subsidiaries fail to withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable PRC regulations, they may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on its business. Under PRC individual income tax law, our PRC subsidiaries are obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax in respect of the salaries and certain other income received by their employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to certain sanctions and other liabilities under the PRC tax rules and regulations in the case of failure to withhold and pay individual income taxes for their employees in accordance with the applicable law and regulations. Although we have not received any notice or penalty from PRC tax authorities, we cannot assure you that such notice or penalty will not occur in the future. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian influenza in China, or similar adverse public health developments, may severely disrupt our business and operations. A renewed outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, the Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our revenues are derived from, could have a negative effect on our operations. In addition, there have been confirmed human cases of avian influenza in the PRC, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Indonesia, Turkey, Cambodia and other countries which have proven fatal in some instances. If such an outbreak or any other similar epidemic were to spread in China, where our operations are located, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. ● Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: ● quarantines or closures of our facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations; ● the sickness or death of our key officers and employees; and ● a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. The Chinese merger and acquisition rules may impact our ability to make acquisitions of Chinese businesses. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), and the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “New M&A Rule”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require offshore Special Purpose Ventures, or SPVs, formed after the effective date, for overseas listing purposes, through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. The Company intends to make acquisitions of Chinese businesses in the future. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations, including the New M&A Rule and those uncertainties could make it difficult or impossible to make acquisitions of Chinese businesses in the future. The Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules may adversely affect our business On March 16, 2007, China’s parliament, the National People’s Congress, adopted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008. The new income tax law sets a unified income tax rate for domestic and foreign companies at 25% and abolishes the favorable tax policies for foreign invested enterprises. After this law took effect, newly established foreign invested enterprises will no longer enjoy certain favorable tax treatments. Our subsidiaries were benefiting from the preferred tax rates for foreign invested companies and are subject to the new tax rate of 25 percent, thus, our net income margin and results of operations could be negatively affected. Further changes to the tax regime could also negatively impact our financial results. 17 You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. Substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Risks Related to Investing in Our Securities The market for our common stock is limited. The shares of our common stock have been traded on the NYSE Amex LLC under the trading symbol “SHZ” since January 31, 2008. Before the listing on the NYSE Amex LLC, the shares of our common stock were traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. We currently have approximately 632 shareholders. The trading volume of our stock has been low. A viable public trading market may not develop for our shares or may take a period of time to develop. Such a market, if it does develop, could be subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the absence of an active trading market: ● shareholders may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; ● market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and ● a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile, which may result in losses to our stockholders. The stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of companies listed on the NYSE Amex LLC, the stock market in which shares of our common stock is listed, have been volatile in the past and have experienced sharp share price and trading volume changes. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including the following, some of which are beyond our control: ● variations in our operating results; ● changes in expectations of our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; ● changes in operating and stock price performance of other companies in our industry; ● additions or departures of key personnel; and ● future sales of our common stock. The trading prices of many companies that have business operations only in China, particularly companies that became public through the completion of a reverse merger, have been volatile which may result in large fluctuations in the price of our common stock and losses for shareholders. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many companies that have business operations only in China, especially companies, such as ours, that became public through the completion of a reverse merger. These fluctuations have, at times, been as a result of negative publicity, and have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of many of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of these companies could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; ● announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; 18 ● announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; ● negative publicity relating to companies doing business in China or related to companies that became public through the completion of a reverse merger; ● announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; ● additions or terminations of coverage of our common stock by securities analysts; ● statements by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; ● conditions or trends in the our industry; and ● changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other mining companies. The prices at which our common stock trades will affect our ability to raise capital, which may have an adverse affect on our ability to fund our operations. Our common stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” and, as such, the market for our Common Stock may be further limited by certain SEC rules applicable to penny stocks. To the extent the price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, we have net tangible assets of $2,000,000 or less, or if we fall below certain other thresholds, our common shares will be subject to certain “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC. Those rules impose certain sales practice requirements on brokers who sell penny stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000). For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, the broker must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Furthermore, the penny stock rules generally require, among other things, that brokers engaged in secondary trading of penny stocks provide customers with written disclosure documents, monthly statements of the market value of penny stocks, disclosure of the bid and asked prices and disclosure of the compensation to the brokerage firm and disclosure of the sales person working for the brokerage firm. These rules and regulations adversely affect the ability of brokers to sell our common shares and limit the liquidity of our securities. Future issuances of shares or equity-related securities may depress the trading price of our shares. Any issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our shares. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity and to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. Sales of a substantial number of shares or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our shares, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our shares or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our shares. We do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, to finance our current and proposed business activities and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may also incur indebtedness in the future that may prohibit or effectively restrict the payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Certain stockholders can exert control over the Company and may not make decisions that further the best interests of all stockholders. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) together currently own an aggregate of approximately 55.3% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Consequently, these stockholders, if they act individually or together, may exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of us and might affect the market price of our Common Stock, even when a change of control may be in the best interest of all stockholders. Furthermore, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements which we would not otherwise consider. 19 Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar, the Euro and other currencies is affected by changes in China’s political and economic conditions, among other things. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. Dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in approximately 21% appreciation of RMB against the U.S. Dollar. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in RMB, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiaries, any significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. Dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. Dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. Dollar amount available to us. If the Company were to be delisted from NYSE Amex LLC, our common stock could be subject to “penny stock” rules which could negatively impact our liquidity and our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE Amex LLC. We must comply with numerous rules in order to maintain the listing of our common stock on the exchange. There can be no assurance that we can continue to meet the requirements to maintain the NYSE Amex LLC listing of our common stock. If we are unable to maintain our listing on the NYSE Amex LLC, the market liquidity of our common stock may be severely limited. Volatility in our common stock price may subject us to securities litigation. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility as compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management’s attention and resources. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of our restricted stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. Under Rule 144, a person who has beneficially owned restricted shares of our common stock or warrants for at least six months would be entitled to sell their securities provided that (i) such person is not deemed to have been one of our affiliates at the time of, or at any time during the three months preceding, a sale and (ii) we are subject to the Exchange Act periodic reporting requirements for at least three months before the sale. Persons who have beneficially owned restricted shares of our common stock for at least six months but who are our affiliates at the time of, or at any time during the three months preceding, a sale, would be subject to additional restrictions, by which such person would be entitled to sell within any three-month period only a number of securities that does not exceed the greater of either of the following: ● 1% of the total number of securities of the same class then outstanding; or ● the average weekly trading volume of such securities during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale. provided, in each case, that we are subject to the Exchange Act periodic reporting requirements for at least three months before the sale. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval was required in connection with our activities, we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the 2006 M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The 2006 M&A Rule, among other things, has certain provisions that require offshore SPVs, formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. There remains uncertainty as to how this regulation will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that its approval was required for our overseas listing and any future offerings, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this occurs, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and other penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the injection of proceeds from an offering into our PRC subsidiaries, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. 20 Our investors may lose their entire investment in our securities. An investment in our securities is highly speculative and may result in the loss of the entire investment. Only potential investors who are experienced investors in high risk investments and who can afford to lose their entire investment should consider an investment in our securities. 