Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors including but not limited to those set forth below, those set forth in our 8 "Forward Looking Statements" disclosure in Item 7, and those set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause the Company's actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. Several of the market segments that the Company serves are cyclical and sensitive to domestic and global economic conditions. Several of the market segments in which the Company sells its products are, to varying degrees, cyclical, and may experience periodic downturns in demand. For example, the Brake & Friction segment is susceptible to downturns in the mining and construction industries, the Interconnect Technologies segment is susceptible to downturns in the commercial airline industry, and the Construction Materials segment is susceptible to downturns in the commercial construction industry. In addition, both the Interconnect Technologies segment and the Brake & Friction segment may be negatively impacted by reductions in military spending. Current uncertainty regarding global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the businesses, results of operations, and financial condition of the Company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers. Among the economic factors which may affect performance are: manufacturing activity, commercial and residential construction, difficulties entering new markets, and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates, and credit availability. These effects may, among other things, negatively impact the level of purchases, capital expenditures, and creditworthiness of the Company's customers, distributors, and suppliers, and therefore, the Company's results of operations, margins, and orders. The Company cannot predict if, when, or how much worldwide economic conditions will improve. These conditions are highly unpredictable and beyond the Company's control. If these conditions deteriorate, however, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Raw Material costs are a significant component of the Company's cost structure. The Company utilizes petroleum-based products, steel, and other commodities in its manufacturing processes. Raw materials, including inbound freight, accounted for approximately 64% of the Company's cost of goods sold in 2013. Significant increases in the price of these materials may not be recovered through selling price increases and could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company also relies on global sources of raw materials, which could be adversely impacted by unfavorable shipping or trade arrangements and global economic conditions. The Company's growth is partially dependent on the acquisition and successful integration of other businesses. The Company has a long standing acquisition program and expects to continue acquiring businesses. Typically, the Company considers acquiring bolt-ons. Acquisitions of this type involve numerous risks, which may include potential difficulties in integrating the business into existing operations; a failure to realize expected growth, synergies, and efficiencies; increasing dependency on the markets served by certain businesses; increased debt to finance the acquisitions or the inability to obtain adequate financing on reasonable terms. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate the acquired business or realize growth, synergies, and efficiencies that were expected when determining a purchase price, goodwill and other intangible assets acquired may be considered impaired, resulting in an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. See "Part II혰Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations혰Critical Accounting Policies" for a discussion of factors considered in subsequent valuation of the Company's acquired goodwill and intangible assets. 9 The Company also considers the acquisition of businesses which can operate independent of existing operations, which has an increased possibility of diverting management's attention from its core operations. The Company has significant concentrations in the general construction market. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 60% of the Company's revenues from continuing operations, and 64% of its EBIT from continuing operations (excluding Corporate expenses) were generated by the Construction Materials segment. Construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. A decline in the commercial construction market, as well as certain other operations of the Company, could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Construction Materials segment competes through pricing, among other factors. Increased competition in this segment has and could continue to place negative pressure on operating results in future periods. The commercial construction market can be affected by weather. Adverse weather conditions, such as heavy or sustained rainfall, cold weather, and snow can limit construction activity and reduce demand for roofing materials. Weather conditions can also be a positive factor, as demand for roofing materials may rise after harsh weather conditions due to the need for replacement materials. The Company is subject to risks arising from international economic, political, legal, and business factors. The Company has increased, and anticipates that it will continue to increase, its presence in global markets. Approximately 23% of the Company's revenues in 2013 were generated outside the United States and the Company expects that this percentage will grow as the Company continues to expand its international sales efforts. In addition, to compete globally against low-cost manufacturers, several of the Company's segments operate manufacturing facilities outside the United States, especially in China. The Company's reliance on non-U.S. revenues and non-U.S. manufacturing bases exposes it to a number of risks, including price and currency controls; exchange rate fluctuations; government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; extraterritorial effects of U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; expropriation of assets; war, civil uprisings, and riots; political instability; nationalization of private enterprises; hyperinflationary conditions; the necessity of obtaining governmental approval for new and continuing products and operations, currency conversion, or repatriation of assets; legal systems of decrees, laws, taxes, regulations, interpretations, and court decisions that are not always fully developed and that may be retroactively or arbitrarily applied; cost and availability of international shipping channels; and local customer loyalty to local companies. The loss of, or a significant decline in business with, one or more of the Company's key customers could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company operates in several specialty niche markets in which a large portion of the segment's revenues are attributable to a few large customers. See "Item 1. Business혰Overview혰Description of Businesses by Segment" for discussion of customer concentrations by segment. A significant reduction in purchases by one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of one or more of the Company's segments. 10 Some of the Company's key customers enjoy significant purchasing power that may be used to exert pricing pressure on the Company. Additionally, as many of the Company's businesses are part of a long supply chain to the ultimate consumer, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected if one or more key customers elects to in-source the production of a product or products that the Company currently provides. If the Company or its business partners are unable to adequately protect the Company's information assets from cyber-based attacks or other security incidents, the Company's operations could be disrupted. The Company is increasingly dependent on information technology, including the internet, for the storage, processing, and transmission of its electronic, business-related, information assets. The Company leverages its internal information technology infrastructures, and those of its business partners, to enable, sustain, and support its global business interests. In the event that the Company or its business partners are unable to prevent, detect, and remediate cyber-based attacks or other security incidents in a timely manner, the Company's operations could be disrupted or the Company may incur financial or reputational losses arising from the theft, alteration, misuse, unauthorized disclosure, or destruction of its information assets. The Company may be impacted by new regulations related to conflict minerals. In August 2012, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new disclosure regulations for public companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold, known as conflict minerals, if these minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of the company's products. These regulations require such companies to report annually whether or not the minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for the minerals. While the regulations do not require that a company discontinue the use of conflict minerals, the Company nevertheless may be impacted by the regulations. If one or more of the Company's key customers declares that it will become "conflict free", the Company may be forced to re-evaluate the sourcing of certain of its raw materials or risk the loss of business with the customer. This could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which the Company sources its raw materials and the Company may be unable to obtain conflict free raw materials at competitive prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Additionally, given the complex nature of the Company's supply chain and, in some cases, an extensive chain of custody for materials that the Company uses in its production processes, the Company may incur significant costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in its products. Currency conversion could have a material impact on the Company's reported results of business operations. The Company's global sales and other activities are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects as the results of transactions in foreign countries are translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose the Company to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will decrease the Company's reported revenues or margins in respect of sales conducted in foreign currencies to the extent the Company is unable or determines not to increase local currency prices. Likewise, decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the cost of materials and products purchased overseas. 11 Increases in the cost of providing pension benefits and healthcare benefits could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Pension expense associated with the Company's defined benefit retirement plans may fluctuate significantly depending on future market performance of plan assets and changes in actuarial assumptions. Net income may be negatively impacted by a decrease in the rate of return on plan assets. Income or expense for the plans is calculated using actuarial valuations. Unfavorable changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant assumptions used are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The key economic factors that affect the expense would also likely affect the amount of cash contributions to the core pension and post-employment plans. To help mitigate the fluctuation in future cash contributions to the core pension plan, the Company implemented a liability driven investment approach in 2009. This approach seeks to invest primarily in fixed income investments to match the changes in the plan liabilities that occur as a result of changes in the discount rate. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The established target allocation is 88% fixed income securities and 12% equity securities. Fixed income investments are diversified across core fixed income, long duration and high yield bonds. Equity investments are diversified across large capitalization U.S. and international stocks. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through investment portfolio reviews, annual liability measures, and asset/liability studies. The Company further reduced its net pension obligation in 2012 by offering a one-time lump-sum window to certain former employees who participate in the Company's core pension plan and in 2013 by transferring certain pension assets and obligations upon sale of the Transportation Products business. Additionally, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be impacted by future increases in healthcare cost trends as well as costs associated with compliance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010. Dispositions, failure to successfully complete dispositions, or restructuring activities could negatively affect the Company. From time to time, the Company, as part of its commitment to concentrate on its core business, may dispose of all or a portion of certain businesses. Such dispositions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial, and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from the Company's core businesses, increased expense associated with the dispositions, potential disputes with the customers or suppliers of the disposed businesses, potential disputes with the acquirers of the disposed businesses, and a potential dilutive effect on the Company's earnings per share. If dispositions are not completed in a timely manner there may be a negative effect on the Company's cash flows and/or the Company's ability to execute its strategy. See Note 4 in Item 8 for discussion of Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale. 12 Additionally, from time to time, the Company may undertake consolidation projects in an effort to reduce costs and streamline its operations. Such restructuring activities may divert management attention from the Company's core businesses, increase expenses on a short-term basis, and lead to potential disputes with the customers or suppliers of the affected businesses. If restructuring activities are not completed in a timely manner or if anticipated cost savings, synergies, and efficiencies are not realized there may be a negative effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Note 5 in Item 8 for discussion of Exit and Disposal Activities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 