Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors including but not limited to those set forth below, those set forth in our “Forward Looking Statements” disclosure in Item 7 and those set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. The Company’s objective is to achieve organic sales growth at 150% of the U.S. national gross domestic product. As the Company continues to grow organically through the construction of new plants and distribution centers, it must balance the benefits against the risks of expanding its business to a level that cannot be supported through its existing customer base or entry into new markets. The Company’s growth is partially dependent on the acquisition of other businesses. The Company has a long standing acquisition program and expects to continue acquiring businesses. Typically, the Company considers acquiring businesses which can be added to existing operations (“bolt-ons”). Acquisitions of this type involve numerous risks, which may include potential difficulties in integrating the business into existing operations, increasing dependency on the markets served by certain businesses, and increased debt to finance the acquisitions. The Company also considers the acquisition of businesses which can operate independently of existing operations, which has an increased possibility of diverting management’s attention from its core operations. Material costs are a significant component of the Company’s cost structure. The Company utilizes petroleum based products, steel and other commodities in its manufacturing processes. Raw materials account for approximately 70% of the Company’s cost of goods sold. Significant increases in the price of these materials may not be recovered through sale price and could adversely affect operating results. The Company also relies on global sources of raw materials, which could be adversely impacted by slow or unfavorable shipping or trade arrangements. The Company must balance the inventory it carries with market demand. A significant increase in demand for its products could result in additional inventory demand which could cause a short-term increase in the cost of inventory purchases. A significant decrease in demand could result in an increase of inventory on hand and as well as increased costs due to production cutbacks and inefficiencies. The products manufactured may become obsolete due to design or technology changes. The Company’s future operating success may depend upon its ability to redesign or find new applications for its current products or develop new products. 10 The Company faces increased off-shore competition. The tire and wheel and power transmission belt businesses compete against companies that leverage low cost manufacturing through facilities located outside the United States. While the Company has been price competitive, it may need to adjust its operating strategies to remain competitive against the off-shore competition. The Company is expanding its operations into China. To compete globally against low-cost manufacturers with operations located outside the United States, the Company has expanded many of its operations into China. Conducting operations within China may cause the Company to be impacted by the political environment within China and trade relations between the United States and Chinese governments. Many of the products manufactured in China are sold in the North American market. Therefore the Company may be impacted by the cost and availability of shipping channels and amount of time required to ship the goods to the intended market. Revenues for sales of products manufactured in China for the North American market are generated predominately in U.S. Dollars. Many of the obligations incurred by these operations are settled in Chinese Renminbi or Hong Kong Dollars. Should the U.S. Dollar weaken significantly against the Renminbi or Hong Kong Dollar, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company continues to monitor developments in China that may affect its strategy and will hedge its currency risk exposure when deemed effective and prudent. The Company and the markets it serves can be negatively impacted by significant changes in interest rates. The Company may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivative instruments to mitigate its interest rate, currency and investment risk. Many of the markets served by Carlisle are impacted by interest rates. A significant rise in interest rates may curtail construction activities and other capital spending, as well as consumer spending, all of which could have an adverse impact on operating results. The Company has significant concentrations in the general construction and lawn and garden markets. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 43% of the Company’s revenues, and 56% of its operating income were generated by the Construction Materials segment. Construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. A decline in the commercial construction market could adversely affect the Company’s performance. Approximately 30% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, and 20% of its operating income were generated by the Company’s Industrial Components segment. The businesses in this segment rely heavily on the condition of the lawn and garden market. Softening in this market could place negative pressure on the Company’s results of operations. The commercial construction market and lawn and garden market can be affected by weather. Adverse weather conditions, such as heavy or sustained rainfall, cold weather and snow can limit construction activity and reduce demand for roofing materials. Weather conditions can also be a positive factor, as demand for roofing materials may rise after harsh weather conditions due to the need for replacement materials. The lawn and garden market is also affected by extreme weather conditions, which could reduce demand for outdoor power equipment. The Company also serves many specialty niche markets and as such, may be negatively impacted by softening in those markets. In addition to having concentrations in the construction materials and lawn and garden markets, many of the markets served by Carlisle, including the specialty trailer, refrigerated truck bodies, and foodservice products markets, are smaller, niche markets that may experience cyclicality. These market cycles can span a number of years, and while the Company benefits from the upside of these cycles, downturns can negatively affect performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 