ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Company believes that this Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the “safe-harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements include statements concerning plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performance, expectations, predictions, and assumptions and other statements which are other than statements of historical facts. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to, and are qualified by, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or business conditions to differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking statements. The Company cautions investors that there can be no assurance that actual results or business conditions will not differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. As a result, the Company’s future development efforts involve a high degree of risk. For further information, please see the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including its Forms 10-K, 10-K/A, 10-Q and 8-K. RISK FACTORS If the Company’s competitors are successful in developing, manufacturing and selling competitive products, the Company’s operating results could suffer. The Company operates in highly competitive and fragmented markets. Businesses that compete with the Company are likely to continue expansion of their product offerings that may erode the Company’s gross margins. The broad range of product lines offered by the Company is unique to the market as few competitors offer the depth of subject matter in their product mix. However, each of the Company’s catalogs competes against a unique list of businesses that specialize in limited numbers of curriculum subjects or markets. Some competitors may be able to commit greater resources to product development, invest greater amounts on capital equipment and marketing plans, or offer more aggressive discounts for its products or services. In fragmented markets, competitors may further merge and consolidate, increasing market competition. Any of these competitive pressures could have a negative effect on the Company’s ope rating results. If the Company is unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s success depends on its ability to enhance existing products and services, develop new products, services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of customers and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. If the Company is unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The effects of the recent economic downturn may have a negative impact on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The recent global economic downturn has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and declining consumer and business confidence, which has led to decreased levels of consumer spending, including spending by school districts, educators and other customers who purchase and use the Company’s products. These macroeconomic developments could negatively impact the Company’s business, which depends, in part, on the general economic environment in the U.S. and other parts of the world. As a result, the Company may not be able to maintain or increase sales to its existing customers, make sales to new customers, collect amounts due on sale transactions, or maintain or improve its earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. If the global economic downturn continues for a significant period of time or continues to worsen, the Company’s results of opera tions, financial condition and cash flows could be materially affected. 7 The Company is dependent upon the levels of student enrollment in elementary and secondary schools and expenditures per student. The Company’s ability to grow its business depends in part on the levels of student enrollment in elementary and secondary schools and expenditures per student. The level of student enrollment in elementary and secondary schools is largely a function of demographics. Expenditures per student are a function of prevailing political and social attitudes toward education, as well as government budgets. Any significant and sustained decline in the size of the levels of student enrollment and/or expenditures per student could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company fails to retain key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees, the Company may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced sales. The performance of the Company is substantially dependent on the services and performance of its senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of, and the failure to promptly replace, any of the Company’s executive officers or other key personnel, as well as the Company’s inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, could have a negative effect on the business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. The Company expects its results of operations to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and the price of its Common Stock and Series I Preferred Stock could fall if quarterly results are lower than the expectations of the market. The Company’s results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and the Company’s results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. If quarterly results fall below market expectations, the price of the Company’s Common Stock and/or Series I Preferred Stock could fall. A number of factors, many of which are outside of the Company’s control, may cause variations in its results of operations including: § fluctuations in the demand for educational, health, medical technology and agricultural products; § seasonality of sales typically experienced by educational supply retailers with peak levels of sales occurring in the second and third quarters of the calendar year primarily due to increased educational shipments coinciding with the Fall start of new school years; and § fluctuations in sales and marketing expenses and technology infrastructure costs. A substantial portion of the Company’s operating expenses are and will be related to sales and marketing, product development, technology and infrastructure, which expenses cannot be adjusted quickly and are therefore relatively fixed in the short term. The Company’s operating expense levels are based in significant part on its expectations of future sales on a quarterly basis. As a result, if sales for a particular quarter are below expectations, the Company may not be able to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter; this sales shortfall would have a negative effect on the Company’s operating results and cash flow for that quarter, which could have a negative impact on the price of the Company’s Common Stock and/or Series I Preferred Stock. The Company’s stock price may fluctuate based on factors beyond its control. Market prices for securities of companies comparable to the Company are highly volatile. The market for the Company’s Common Stock and Series I Preferred Stock has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the Company’s operating performance. The voting power of the Company held by Geneve limits the ability of other stockholders to determine the outcome of corporate actions. Because of the voting power of the Company held by Geneve, stockholders other than Geneve will, in many circumstances, have no ability to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and certain amendments to the Company’s charter. 8 Concentration of common share ownership and limited number of shares outstanding could prevent an active market for the Company’s Common Stock and Series I Preferred Stock. Although the Company’s Common Stock and Series I Preferred Stock are publicly traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the concentration of Common Stock ownership among Geneve and the Company’s management and directors, and the small number of its outstanding shares of Common Stock and Series I Preferred Stock that are publicly traded, could prevent an active market for those securities. If there is not an active market for the Common Stock and/or Series I Preferred Stock, it may be difficult to sell shares of either of those securities, which could lower their respective market prices. Geneve owns 100% of the Company’s Series J Preferred Stock. In connection with the merger of Nasco and the Company in June 2002, Geneve acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s Series J Preferred Stock. The Series J Preferred Stock is perpetual, non-callable and not convertible into or exchangeable for any other of the Company’s property or securities. The Series J Preferred Stock accrues cumulative dividends at the rate of 12% per share, based on its stated value of $6.00 per share, if and when declared by the Company’s Board of Directors. There are 11.2 million shares of Series J Preferred Stock authorized; approximately 11.0 million shares are issued, outstanding and owned by Geneve. Geneve has indicated in public filings that (i) it does not intend to dispose of its Series J Preferred Stock, and (ii) it can transfer control of the Company through the disposition of its Common Stock, but will not do so unless the value of any outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock will be maintained. The Company may not pay dividends on the Series I Preferred Stock. Each share of Series I Preferred Stock accrues cumulative dividends at the rate of 11% per share, based on the $6.00 stated value of the Series I Preferred Stock, and it is the current intent of the Company’s Board of Directors to declare such dividends. However, the payment of this dividend will be subject to the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors, which has no obligation to declare or pay the dividend. No dividends may be declared or paid with respect to the Company’s Common Stock or Series J Preferred Stock until dividends are paid with respect to the Series I Preferred Stock; there can be no assurance that any dividends will be paid to holders of Series I Preferred Stock. The Company may expand its business through acquisitions. In addition to acquisitions which the Company has already made, the Company is continually evaluating new acquisition opportunities. Factors which may affect the Company’s ability to grow successfully through acquisitions include: § ability of the Company on a timely basis to find, prudently negotiate and consummate additional acquisitions; § difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits; § diversion of management’s attention from current operations; § possibility that the Company may be adversely affected by risk factors facing the acquired companies; § acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of the Company’s capital stock to the owners of the acquired company, dilutive to the percentage ownership of the Company’s existing capital stock; § potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies not covered by the indemnification which the Company may obtain from the seller; and § loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The Company’s earnings may be materially impacted by an impairment of goodwill. The Company reviews goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. The Company regularly assesses whether such indicators exist, which requires a significant amount of judgment. Indicators may include: (i) a sustained significant decline in the Company’s share price and market capitalization; (ii) a decline in expected future cash flows; (iii) a significant adverse change in the business climate; and/or (iv) slower growth rate. Any adverse change in one of these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of the affected assets and could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. If the Company experiences a sustained decline in results 9 of operations and cash flows, or other indicators of impairment exist, the Company may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings relating to impairment of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial results. The Company may be required to expend significant resources to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and may not be able to comply on a timely basis, if at all. The Company is not an accelerated filer as defined under relevant SEC regulations, and therefore is not required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the filing of its 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which will be filed by the Company in 2010. Complying with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may require the Company to expend significant resources, which could increase selling and administrative expenses and divert management time and attention from sales-generating activities. The Company must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. In 2008, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (“CPSIA”) was enacted. Pursuant to the CPSIA, the Consumer Product Safety Commission is implementing new regulations governing the safety requirements and product testing protocols for many of the Company’s products. These new regulations significantly tighten the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of many of the Company’s products (including certain products already in inventory), and increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The cost of complying with the requirements of the CPSIA may have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations, and failure to comply with the regulations enacted pursuant to the CPSIA could subject the Company to penalties, damage awards and/or settlement costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 