ITEM 1A. Risk Factors There are risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Any of the following risks could affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and could be material and/or adverse in nature. Deterioration in local economic conditions may negatively impact our financial performance. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of central and upstate New York, northeastern Pennsylvania, southern New Hampshire, western Massachusetts and Burlington, Vermont and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the upstate New York areas of Norwich, Oneonta, Amsterdam-Gloversville, Albany, Binghamton, Utica-Rome, Plattsburg, Glens Falls. and Ogdensburg-Massena, the northeastern Pennsylvania areas of Scranton, Wilkes-Barre and East Stroudsburg, Berkshire County, Massachusetts, southern New Hampshire and the greater Burlington, Vermont area. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. As a lender with the majority of our loans secured by real estate or made to businesses in New York, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont, a downturn in these local economies could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could negatively impact our earnings. Declines in real estate values in our market areas could cause any of our loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could adversely impact our portfolio of residential and commercial real estate loans and could result in the decline of originations of such loans, as most of our loans, and the collateral securing our loans, are located in those areas. Variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. The Company’s earnings and financial condition are largely dependent upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and financial condition. The Company cannot predict with certainty, or control, changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the FRB, affect interest income and interest expense. High interest rates could also affect the amount of loans that the Company can originate because higher rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgages or cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost to accounts with a higher cost. The Company may also experience customer attrition due to competitor pricing. With short-term interest rates at historic lows and the current Federal Funds target rate at 25 bps, the Company’s interest-bearing deposit accounts, particularly core deposits, are repricing at historic lows as well. With the current outlook of the FRB to maintain the Fed Funds target rate at 25 bps for another 24 to 28 months, the Company’s challenge will be managing the magnitude and scope of the repricing. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect net interest income. Similarly, lower interest rates cause higher yielding assets to prepay and floating or adjustable rate assets to reset to lower rates. If the Company is not able to reduce its funding costs sufficiently, due to either competitive factors or the maturity schedule of existing liabilities, then the Company’s net interest margin will decline. 18 Table of Contents Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial or unexpected change in, or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s management of interest rate risk. Changes in the equity markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for other fee-based services. Economic downturns could affect the volume of income from and demand for fee-based services. Revenues from the trust and benefit plan administration businesses depend in large part on the level of assets under management and administration. Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investments, as well as lower asset values, can reduce our level of assets under management and administration and thereby decrease our investment management and administration revenues. Our lending, and particularly our emphasis on commercial lending, exposes us to the risk of losses upon borrower default. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across the states of New York, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont, and the entire United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Company. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 44% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, agricultural, commercial construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and/or an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loans” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to commercial and industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial real estate loans. 19 Table of Contents If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is an allowance established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that could be incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political, environmental, and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. These potential increases in the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Risk Management – Credit Risk” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Strong competition within our industry and market area could hurt our performance and slow our growth. The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets in which the Company operates. Additionally, various banks continue to enter or have announced plans to enter the market areas in which the Company currently operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; · the ability to expand the Company’s market position; · the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; · the rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors; · customer satisfaction with the Company’s level of service; · industry and general economic trends; and · the ability to attract and retain talented employees. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company, primarily through the Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” which is located in Item 1. Business in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K. Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulatory reforms may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings and capital ratios On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represented a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, and has significantly changed the bank regulatory landscape and has impacted, and will continue to impact the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new federal financial consumer protection agency, tightens capital standards, imposes clearing and margining requirements on many derivatives activities, and generally increases oversight and regulation of financial institutions and financial activities. It requires bank holding companies with assets greater than $500 million to be subject to minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements and phases out the ability for bank holding companies to count trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010 as Tier 1 capital. The Company has not issued any trust preferred securities after May 19, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakened the federal preemption rules that have been applicable to national banks and federal savings associations, gave state attorneys general certain powers to enforce rules issued by the CFPB. The scope and impact of many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions will be determined over time as regulations are issued and become effective. As a result, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us at this time, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs. The financial reform legislation and any rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and our business. We will apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implemented rules, which may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings. 21 Table of Contents The Company is subject to liquidity risk which could adversely affect net interest income and earnings The purpose of the Company’s liquidity management is to meet the cash flow obligations of its customers for both deposits and loans. The primary liquidity measurement the Company utilizes is called Basic Surplus which captures the adequacy of the Company’s access to reliable sources of cash relative to the stability of its funding mix of average liabilities. This approach recognizes the importance of balancing levels of cash flow liquidity from short and long-term securities with the availability of dependable borrowing sources which can be accessed when necessary. However, competitive pressure on deposit pricing could result in a decrease in the Company’s deposit base or an increase in funding costs. In addition, liquidity will come under additional pressure if loan growth exceeds deposit growth. These scenarios could lead to a decrease in the Company’s basic surplus measure below the minimum policy level of 5%. To manage this risk, the Company has the ability to purchase brokered time deposits, borrow against established borrowing facilities with other banks (Federal funds), and enter into repurchase agreements with investment companies. Depending on the level of interest rates, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. See the section captioned “Liquidity Risk” in Item 7. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from our subsidiaries. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock and interest and principal on the Company’s debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. Also, the Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A breach of information security, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business and impact our earnings. We depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Despite existing safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. If information security is breached or difficulties or failures occur, despite the controls we and our third party vendors have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. Such costs or losses could exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. We continually encounter technological change and the failure to understand and adapt to these changes could hurt our business. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological changes affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan, as well as Delaware law and certain banking laws, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the Company’s stockholder purchase rights plan, the corporate law of the State of Delaware and state and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring the Company, despite the possible benefit to the Company’s stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Company’s board of directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings. In addition, the Company is subject to Delaware law, which among other things prohibits the Company from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discouraging bids for the Company’s common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of the Company’s common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors other than candidates nominated by the Board. Negative developments in the housing market, financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, continued high unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The economic pressure experienced by consumers during the recent fiscal recession and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we have seen increases in foreclosures in our markets, increases in expenses such as loan collection and OREO expenses, and a low reinvestment rate environment. While believe the financial crisis is slowly recovering, but we have not yet hit the bottom in many northeast markets. Therefore, we do not expect that the challenging conditions in the financial and housing markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions. In particular, we may be affected in one or more of the following ways: · We currently face increased regulation of our industry and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; · Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets; or · Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to other-than-temporary impairment risk which could negatively impact our financial performance. The Company recognizes an impairment charge when the decline in the fair value of equity, debt securities and cost-method investments below their cost basis are judged to be other-than-temporary. Significant judgment is used to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a significant adverse effect on the future use of the investment. The Company considers various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and whether the Company has the intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not it will be forced to sell the security in question. Information about unrealized gains and losses is subject to changing conditions. The values of securities with unrealized gains and losses will fluctuate, as will the values of securities that we identify as potentially distressed. Our current evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments reflects our intent to hold securities for a reasonable period of time sufficient for a forecasted recovery of fair value. However, our intent to hold certain of these securities may change in future periods as a result of facts and circumstances impacting a specific security. If our intent to hold a security with an unrealized loss changes, and we do not expect the security to fully recover prior to the expected time of disposition, we will write down the security to its fair value in the period that our intent to hold the security changes. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. The Company estimates the expected future cash flows of its various businesses and determines the carrying value of these businesses. The Company exercises judgment in assigning and allocating certain assets and liabilities to these businesses. The Company then compares the carrying value, including goodwill and other intangibles, to the discounted future cash flows. If the total of future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the assets, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. Estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets are critical to these assessments. Changes in these estimates based on changed economic conditions or business strategies could result in material impairment charges and therefore have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and performance. The risks presented by acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The business strategy of the Company has included and may continue to include growth through acquisition. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks may include, among other things: our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the loss of key employees, the potential disruption of our or the acquired company’s ongoing business in such a way that could result in decreased revenues, the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with the acquired company’s employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we obtain title. A significant portion of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2013 was secured by real estate. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a government entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation and remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. These costs and claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions including the FHLB of New York. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company owns common stock of FHLB of New York in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables it to borrow funds under the FHLB of New York’s advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB of New York common stock was $30.8 million as of December 31, 2013. There are 12 branches of the FHLB, including New York. The 12 FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system’s debt, other FHLB branches can be called upon to make the payment. Any such adverse effects on the FHLB of New York could adversely affect the value of our investment in its common stock and negatively impact our results of operations. Trading activity in the Company’s common stock could result in material price fluctuations. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors including, but not limited to: · Changes in securities analysts’ expectations of financial performance; · Volatility of stock market prices and volumes; · Incorrect information or speculation; · Changes in industry valuations; · Variations in operating results from general expectations; 25 Table of Contents · Actions taken against the Company by various regulatory agencies; · Changes in authoritative accounting guidance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies; · Changes in general domestic economic conditions such as inflation rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, labor and healthcare cost trend rates, recessions, and changing government policies, laws and regulations; and · Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 