ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2 PROPERTIES ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK 2 ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006 Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the yearsin the three-year period ended December 31, 2007 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE* ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION* ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENECIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS* ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES* PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (a) (1) Financial Statements (See Item 8 for Reference). (2) Financial Statement Schedules normally required on Form 10-K are omitted since they are not applicable. (3) Exhibits. (b) Refer to item 15(a)(3)above. (c) Refer to item 15(a)(2) above. SIGNATURES * Information called for by Part III (Items 10 through 14) is incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS NBT Bancorp Inc. (the “Registrant” or the “Company”) is a registered financial holding company incorporated in the state of Delaware in 1986, with its principal headquarters located in Norwich, New York. The Company, on a consolidated basis, at December 31, 2007 had assets of $5.2 billion and stockholders’ equity of $397.3 million. The Registrant is the parent holding company of NBT Bank, N.A. (the Bank), NBT Financial Services, Inc. (NBT Financial), Hathaway Agency, Inc., CNBF Capital Trust I, NBT Statutory Trust I and NBT Statutory Trust II (the Trusts). Through the Bank and NBT Financial, the Company is focused on community banking operations. The Trusts were organized to raise additional regulatory capital and to provide funding for certain acquisitions. The Registrant’s primary business consists of providing commercial banking and financial services to its customers in its market area. The principal assets of the Registrant are all of the outstanding shares of common stock of its direct subsidiaries, and its principal sources of revenue are the management fees and dividends it receives from the Bank and NBT Financial. The Bank is a full service commercial bank formed in 1856, which provides a broad range of financial products to individuals, corporations and municipalities throughout the central and upstate New York and northeastern Pennsylvania market area. The Bank conducts business through two geographic operating divisions, NBT Bank and Pennstar Bank. At year end 2007, the NBT Bank division had 82 divisional offices and 110 automated teller machines (ATMs), located primarily in central and upstate New York. At December 31, 2007, the NBT Bank division had total loans and leases of $2.7 billion and total deposits of $3.0 billion. At year end 2007, the Pennstar Bank division had 39 divisional offices and 56 ATMs, located primarily in northeastern Pennsylvania. At December 31, 2007, the Pennstar Bank division had total loans and leases of $745.7 million and total deposits of $845.4 million. The Bank has six operating subsidiaries, NBT Capital Corp., Pennstar Bank Services Company, Broad Street Property Associates, Inc., NBT Services, Inc., Pennstar Realty Trust, and CNB Realty Trust. NBT Capital Corp., formed in 1998, is a venture capital corporation formed to assist young businesses to develop and grow primarily in the markets we serve. Broad Street Property Associates, Inc., formed in 2004, is a property management company. NBT Services, Inc., formed in 2004, is the holding company of and has an 80% ownership interest in NBT Settlement Services, LLC. NBT Settlement Services, LLC, formed in 2004, provides title insurance products to individuals and corporations. Pennstar Realty Trust, formed in 2000, and CNB Realty Trust, formed in 1998, are real estate investment trusts. Pennstar Bank Services Company, formed in 2002, provides administrative and support services to the Pennstar Bank division of the Bank. CNBF Capital Trust I (Trust I) and NBT Statutory Trust I are Delaware statutory business trusts formed in 1999 and 2005, respectively, for the purpose of issuing trust preferred securities and lending the proceeds to the Company. In connection with the acquisition of CNB Bancorp, Inc. mentioned below, the Company formed NBT Statutory Trust II (Trust II) in February 2006 to fund the cash portion of the acquisition as well as to provide regulatory capital. The Company raised $51.5 million through Trust II in February 2006. The Company guarantees, on a limited basis, payments of distributions on the trust preferred securities and payments on redemption of the trust preferred securities. The Trusts are variable interest entities (VIEs) for which the Company is not the primary beneficiary, as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 46 “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (Revised December 2003) (FIN 46R).” In accordance with FIN 46R, the accounts of the Trusts are not included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. See the Company’s accounting policy related to the consolidation in Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. For more information relating to the Trusts, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. 4 Table of Contents On February 10, 2006, the Company acquired CNB Bancorp, Inc. (“CNB”), a bank holding company headquartered in Gloversville, New York. The acquisition was accomplished by merging CNB with and into the Company. By virtue of this acquisition, CNB’s banking subsidiary, City National Bank and Trust Company, was merged with and into NBT Bank. City National Bank and Trust Company operated 9 full-service community banking offices – located in Fulton, Hamilton, Montgomery and Saratoga counties, with approximately $400 million in assets. In connection with the merger with CNB, the Company issued an aggregate of 2.1 million shares of Company common stock and $39 million in cash to the former holders of CNB common stock. CNB nonqualified stock options, entitling holders to purchase CNB common stock outstanding, were cancelled on the closing date and such option holders received an option payment subject to the terms of the merger agreement. The total number of CNB nonqualified stock options that were canceled was 103,545, which resulted in a cash payment to option holders before any applicable federal or state withholding tax, of approximately $1.3 million. In accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, all outstanding CNB incentive stock options as of the effective date were assumed by the Company. At that time, there were 144,686 CNB incentive stock options that were exchanged for 237,278 replacement incentive stock options of the Company. All CNB incentive stock options were converted to nonqualified stock options. Based on the $22.42 per share closing price of the Company’s common stock on February 10, 2006, the transaction was valued at approximately $88 million. COMPETITION The banking and financial services industry in New York and Pennsylvania generally, and in the Company’s market areas specifically, is highly competitive. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, additional financial service providers, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. The Company competes for loans and leases, deposits, and customers with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market funds, credit unions, and other nonbank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader range of financial services than the Company. In order to compete with other financial services providers, the Company stresses the community nature of its banking operations and principally relies upon local promotional activities, personal relationships established by officers, directors, and employees with their customers, and specialized services tailored to meet the needs of the communities served. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRS”) as its primary federal regulator. The Company also has qualified for and elected to be registered with the FRS as a financial holding company. The Bank, as a nationally chartered bank, is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) as its primary federal regulator and, as to certain matters, by the FRS and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). The Company is subject to capital adequacy guidelines of the FRS. The guidelines apply on a consolidated basis and require bank holding companies to maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total average assets (or “leverage ratio”) of 4%. For the most highly rated bank holding companies, the minimum ratio is 3%. The FRS capital adequacy guidelines also require bank holding companies to maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4% and a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8%. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s leverage ratio was 7.14%, its ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets was 9.79%, and its ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets was 11.05%. The FRS may set higher minimum capital requirements for bank holding companies whose circumstances warrant it, such as companies anticipating significant growth or facing unusual risks. The FRS has not advised the Company of any special capital requirement applicable to it. 5 Table of Contents Any holding company whose capital does not meet the minimum capital adequacy guidelines is considered to be undercapitalized and is required to submit an acceptable plan to the FRS for achieving capital adequacy. Such a company’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders and expand its lines of business through the acquisition of new banking or nonbanking subsidiaries also could be restricted. The Bank is subject to leverage and risk-based capital requirements and minimum capital guidelines of the OCC that are similar to those applicable to the Company. As of December 31, 2007, the Bank was in compliance with all minimum capital requirements. The Bank’s leverage ratio was 6.82%, its ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets was 9.40%, and its ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets was 10.66%. Under FDIC regulations, no FDIC-insured bank can accept brokered deposits unless it is well capitalized, or is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. In addition, these regulations prohibit any bank that is not well capitalized from paying an interest rate on brokered deposits in excess of three-quarters of one percentage point over certain prevailing market rates. As of December 31, 2007, the Bank’s total brokered deposits were $209.0 million. The Bank also is subject to substantial regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to the Company. Under OCC regulations, the Bank may not pay a dividend, without prior OCC approval, if the total amount of all dividends declared during the calendar year, including the proposed dividend, exceed the sum of its retained net income to date during the calendar year and its retained net income over the preceding two years. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $33.4 million was available for the payment of dividends without prior OCC approval. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends also is subject to the Bank being in compliance with regulatory capital requirements. As indicated above, the Bank is currently in compliance with these requirements. The OCC generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized institutions are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan, it is treated as if it is “significantly undercapitalized.” Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become “adequately capitalized,” requirements to reduce total assets, and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. “Critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. The deposits of the Bank are insured up to regulatory limits by the FDIC. The Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005, which was signed into law on February 8, 2006, gave the FDIC increased flexibility in assessing premiums on banks and savings associations, including the Bank, to pay for deposit insurance and in managing its deposit insurance reserves. The FDIC has adopted regulations to implement its new authority. Under these regulations, all insured depository institutions are placed into one of four risk categories. According to FDIC estimates, approximately 95% of all insured institutions, including the Bank, are in Risk Category I, the most favorable category. Within this category, all insured institutions pay a base rate assessment of $0.02 to $0.04 per $100 of assessable deposits (which rate may be adjusted annually by the FDIC by up to $0.03 per $100 of assessable deposits without public comment) based on the risk of loss to the Depository Insurance Fund (“DIF”) posed by the particular institution. For institutions such as the Bank, which do not have a long-term public debt rating, the individual risk assessment is based on its supervisory ratings and certain financial ratios and other measurements of its financial condition. For institutions that have a long-term public debt rating, the individual risk assessment is based on its supervisory ratings and its debt rating. The new law became effective on January 1, 2007. The reform legislation also provided a credit to all insured depository institutions, based on the amount of their insured deposits at year-end 1996, that may be used as an offset to the premiums that are assessed. The Bank estimates that its credit will fully offset its 2008 deposit insurance assessment. 6 Table of Contents The Federal Deposit Insurance Act provides for additional assessments to be imposed on insured depository institutions to pay for the cost of Financing Corporation (“FICO”) funding. The FICO assessments are adjusted quarterly to reflect changes in the assessment base of the DIF and do not vary depending upon a depository institution’s capitalization or supervisory evaluation. During 2007, FDIC assessments for purposes of funding FICO bond obligations ranged from an annualized $0.0122 per $100 of deposits for the first quarter of 2007 to $0.0114 per $100 of deposits for the fourth quarter of 2007. The Bank paid $0.5 million of FICO assessments in 2007. For the first quarter of 2008, the FICO assessment rate is $0.0114 per $100 of deposits. Transactions between the Bank and any of its affiliates, including the Company, are governed by sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and FRS regulations thereunder. An “affiliate” of a bank is any company or entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the bank. A subsidiary of a bank that is not also a depository institution is not treated as an affiliate of the bank for purposes of sections 23A and 23B, unless the subsidiary is also controlled through a non-bank chain of ownership by affiliates or controlling shareholders of the bank, the subsidiary is a financial subsidiary that operates under the expanded authority granted to national banks under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLB Act”), or the subsidiary engages in other activities that are not permissible for a bank to engage in directly (except insurance agency subsidiaries). Generally, sections 23A and 23B are intended to protect insured depository institutions from suffering losses arising from transactions with non-insured affiliates, by placing quantitative and qualitative limitations on covered transactions between a bank and with any one affiliate as well as all affiliates of the bank in the aggregate, and requiring that such transactions be on terms that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices. In 2007, the Federal Reserve and SEC issued a final joint rulemaking to clarify that traditional banking activities involving some elements of securities brokerage activitities, such as most trust and fiduciary activities, may continue to be performed by banks rather than being “pushed-out” to affiliates supervised by the SEC. Under the GLB Act, a financial holding company may engage in certain financial activities that a bank holding company may not otherwise engage in under the Bank Holding Company Act (“BHC Act”). In addition to engaging in banking and activities closely related to banking as determined by the FRS by regulation or order prior to November 11, 1999, a financial holding company may engage in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to financial activities, or activities that are complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. The GLB Act requires all financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank, to adopt privacy policies, restrict the sharing of nonpublic customer data with nonaffiliated parties at the customer’s request, and establish procedures and practices to protect customer data from unauthorized access. In addition, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (“FACT Act”) includes many provisions concerning national credit reporting standards, and permits consumers, including customers of the Company, to opt out of information sharing among affiliated companies for marketing purposes. The FACT Act also requires banks and other financial institutions to notify their customers if they report negative information about them to a credit bureau or if they are granted credit on terms less favorable than those generally available. The FRS and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) have extensive rulemaking authority under the FACT Act, and the Company and the Bank are subject to the rules that have been promulgated by the FRS and FTC. The Company has developed policies and procedures for itself and its subsidiaries, including the Bank, and believes it is in compliance with all privacy, information sharing, and notification provisions of the GLB Act and the FACT Act. 7 Table of Contents Periodic disclosures by companies in various industries of the loss or theft of computer-based nonpublic customer information have led several members of Congress to call for the adoption of national standards for the safeguarding of such information and the disclosure of security breaches. Several committees of both houses of Congress have conducted and have proposed legislation regarding these issues. hearings on data security and related issues. Under Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act, also known as the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorism Financing Act of 2001, all financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank, are required in general to identify their customers, adopt formal and comprehensive anti-money laundering programs, scrutinize or prohibit altogether certain transactions of special concern, and be prepared to respond to inquiries from U.S. law enforcement agencies concerning their customers and their transactions. The USA PATRIOT Act also encourages information-sharing among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement authorities by providing an exemption from the privacy provisions of the GLB Act for financial institutions that comply with this provision. The effectiveness of a financial institution in combating money laundering activities is a factor to be considered in any application submitted by the financial institution under the Bank Merger Act, which applies to the Bank, or the BHC Act, which applies to the Company. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with all of the relevant laws or regulations, could have serious legal, financial and reputational consequences for the institution. As of December 31, 2007, the Company and the Bank believe they are in compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act and regulations thereunder. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOA”) implemented a broad range of measures to increase corporate responsibility, enhance penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to federal securities laws. The SOA applies generally to companies that have securities registered under the Exchange Act, including publicly-held bank holding companies such as the Company. It includes very specific additional disclosure requirements and have adopted corporate governance rules, and the SEC and securities exchanges to adopt extensive additional disclosure, corporate governance and other related rules pursuant to its mandates. The SOA represents significant federal involvement in matters traditionally left to state regulatory systems, such as the regulation of the accounting profession, and to state corporate law, such as the relationship between a board of directors and management and between a board of directors and its committees. In addition, the federal banking regulators have adopted generally similar requirements concerning the certification of financial statements by bank officials. Home mortgage lenders, including banks, are required under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (“HMDA”) to make available to the public expanded information regarding the pricing of home mortgage loans, including the “rate spread” between the interest rate on loans and certain Treasury securities and other benchmarks. The availability of this information has led to increased scrutiny of higher-priced loans at all financial institutions to detect illegal discriminatory practices and to the initiation of a limited number of investigations by federal banking agencies and the U.S. Department of Justice. The Company has no information that it or its affiliates is the subject of any HMDA investigation. During 2007, the Federal Reserve, OCC and other federal financial regulatory agencies issued final guidance on subprime mortgage lending to address issues relating to certain subprime mortgages, especially adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) products that can cause payment shock. The subprime guidance described the prudent safety and soundness and consumer protection standards that the regulators expect banks and financial institutions, such as the Company and Bank, to follow to ensure borrowers obtain loans they can afford to repay. In December 2006, the Federal Reserve, OCC and other federal financial regulatory agencies issued similar final guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate (“CRE”) lending. The CRE guidance provided supervisory criteria, including numberical indicators to direct examiners in identifying institutions with potentially significant CRE loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The CRE criteria do not constitute limits on CRE lending, but the CRE guidance does provide certain additional expectations, such as enhanced risk management practices and levels of capital, for banks with concentrations in CRE lending. 8 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2007, the Company had 1,253 full-time equivalent employees. The Company’s employees are not presently represented by any collective bargaining group. The Company considers its employee relations to be good. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Company’s website is http://www.nbtbancorp.com. The Company makes available free of charge through its website, its annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including our proxy statements and reports filed by officers and directors under Section 16(a) of that Act, as well as our Code of Business Ethics and other codes/committee charters. The references to our website do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained in the website and such information should not be considered part of this document. Any materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC, 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company is Subject to Interest Rate Risk The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. 9 Table of Contents Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s management of interest rate risk. The Company is Subject to Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across the States of New York and Pennsylvania, as well as the entire United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Company. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 41% of the Company’s loan and lease portfolio consisted of commercial, agricultural, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loans and Leases and Corresponding Interest and Fees on Loans” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans. The Company’s Allowance For Loan and Lease Losses May Be Insufficient The Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is an allowance established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans and leases. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and risks inherent in the loan and lease portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan and lease portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses. These increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Risk Management – Credit Risk” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and losses. 10 Table of Contents The Company’s Profitability Depends Significantly on Local and National Economic Conditions The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of upstate New York and northeastern Pennsylvania and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the upstate New York areas of Norwich, Oneonta, Amsterdam-Gloversville, Albany, Binghamton, Utica-Rome, Plattsburg, and Ogdensburg-Massena and northeastern Pennsylvania areas of Scranton, Wilkes-Barre and East Stroudsburg. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The second half of 2007 was highlighted by significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital marketplaces. This turbulence has been attributable to a variety of factors, including the fallout associated with the subprime mortgage market. One aspect of this fallout has been significant deterioration in the activity of the secondary market. The disruptions have been exacerbated by the continued decline of the real estate and housing market along with significant mortgage loan related losses incurred by many lending institutions. The turmoil in the mortgage market has impacted the global markets as well as the domestic markets and led to a significant credit and liquidity crisis in many domestic markets during the second half of 2007. As a lender, we may be adversely affected by general economic weaknesses, and, in particular, a sharp downturn in the housing industry in the states of New York and Pennsylvania. During the second half of 2007, we have experienced an increase in nonperforming loans and net loan charge-offs. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a further increase in delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income, or continue to have an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, causing an increase in our allowance for loan losses. The Company Operates In a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets the Company operates. Additionally, various out-of-state banks continue to enter or have announced plans to enter the market areas in which the Company currently operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: 11 Table of Contents • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. • The ability to expand the Company’s market position. • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. • Customer satisfaction with the Company’s level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Is Subject To Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The Company, primarily through NBT Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Business, which is located elsewhere in this report. The Company’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May Subject The Company to Additional Risks From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents The Company Relies on Dividends From Its Subsidiaries For Most Of Its Revenue The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock and interest and principal on the Company’s debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Bank may pay to the Company. Also, the Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from NBT Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Business and Note 15 — Stockholders’ Equity in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are located elsewhere in this report. The Company May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Skilled People The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company’s Information Systems May Experience An Interruption Or Breach In Security The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Continually Encounters Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts Of War Or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact The Company’s Business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Articles Of Incorporation, By-Laws and Stockholder Rights Plan As Well As Certain Banking Laws May Have An Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the Company’s articles of incorporation and by-laws, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and the Company’s stock purchase rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 