risk factors, as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company typically earns a disproportionate share of its operating income in the fourth quarter due to seasonal buying patterns, which are difficult to forecast with certainty. While the Company believes that its assumptions are reasonable, it cautions that it is impossible to predict the impact of such factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from predicted results. THE FOLLOWING LIST OF IMPORTANT FACTORS IS NOT EXCLUSIVE AND THE COMPANY DOES NOT UNDERTAKE TO REVISE OR UPDATE ANY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT TO REFLECT EVENTS OR CIRCUMSTANCES THAT OCCUR AFTER THE STATEMENT IS MADE. RISK FACTORS The Company's business is subject to certain risks, and those risks should be considered while evaluating its business and financial results. Any of the risks discussed below could materially and adversely affect the Company's operating results and financial condition, as well as the projections and beliefs about its future performance. Accordingly, the Company's results could differ materially from those projected in its forward-looking statements. In addition, the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts and timing of revenue and expenses, the reported amounts and classification of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ materially from the Company's estimates and assumptions. (See Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies".) The Company's Sources of Liquidity Are Limited The Company's working capital requirements are currently met through a combination of cash generated by operations, borrowings under its senior revolving credit facility, short-term trade and factor credit, and by proceeds from external financings and sale transactions. In the event these sources of liquidity are not adequate, the Company may be required to pursue one or more alternative sources, which could include the sale of additional stores or the issuance of additional equity or equity-linked securities. If the estimates or assumptions relative to any one of these sources of liquidity are not realized, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Although the Company has significantly improved its leverage position, the ability to obtain additional or alternative sources of financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, new store openings, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes may be limited. This limited financial flexibility may result in increased vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, a more limited ability to react to changes in the business environment and the industry in which the Company competes, and the Company being at a competitive disadvantage with competitors that have less debt and greater access to capital resources. The Company's existing debt agreements impose operating and financial restrictions that limit the Company's ability to make dividend payments and grant liens, among other matters. The Company Is Highly Dependent On Key Relationships With Factors And Vendors The success of the Company's business is highly dependent upon the adequacy of trade credit offered by key factors and vendors, the vendors' ability and willingness to sell its products at favorable prices and terms, and the willingness of vendors to ship merchandise on a timely basis. Restrictions to the amount of trade credit granted by key factors and vendors can adversely impact the volume of merchandise the Company is able to purchase. Any significant reduction in the volume of merchandise the Company is able to purchase, or a prolonged disruption in the timing of when merchandise is received, would have a material adverse affect on the Company's business, liquidity position, and results of operations. The Company Faces Significant Competition From Other Retailers The retail business is highly competitive, and if the Company fails to compete effectively, it could lose market share. The Company's primary competitors include national, regional and local chain department and specialty stores, general merchandise stores, discount and off-price retailers and outlet malls. Increased use and acceptance of the internet and other home shopping formats also creates increased competition. Some of these competitors offer similar or better-branded merchandise and have greater financial resources to purchase larger quantities of merchandise at lower prices. The Company's ability to counteract these competitive pressures depends on its ability to: offer merchandise which reflects the different regional and local needs of its customers; differentiate and market the Company as a home-town, locally-oriented store (as opposed to its more nationally focused competitors); and continue to offer adequate quantities of better to moderately priced branded and private label merchandise at comparable profit margins. The Company's Business Is Susceptible To Economic Conditions And Other Factors That Affect Its Markets, Some Of Which Are Beyond Its Control General Economic and Market Conditions. The Company's stores are located primarily in non-major metropolitan, suburban and agricultural areas in the western United States. A substantial portion of the stores are located in California and Washington. The Company's success depends upon consumer spending, which may be materially and adversely affected by any of the following events or conditions: a downturn in the national, California or Pacific Northwest economies; a downturn in the local economies where the stores are located; a decline in consumer confidence; an increase in interest rates; inflation or deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; higher energy costs in California and the Pacific Northwest; higher healthcare and workers' compensation insurance costs; higher property and casualty insurance costs; tax rates and policy; and unemployment trends. Seasonality and Weather. Seasonal influences affect the Company's sales and profits. The Company experiences its highest levels of sales and profits during the Christmas selling months of November and December, and, to a lesser extent, during the Easter holiday and Back-to-School seasons. The Company has increased working capital needs prior to the Christmas season to carry significantly higher inventory levels and generally increases its selling staff levels to meet anticipated demands. Any substantial decrease in sales during its traditional peak selling periods could materially adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company also depends on normal weather patterns across its markets. Historically, unusual weather patterns have significantly impacted its business. Consumer Trends. The Company's success partially depends on its ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner. However, it is difficult to predict what merchandise consumers will demand, particularly merchandise that is trend driven. Failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could adversely affect short and long-term results. War and Acts of Terrorism. The involvement of the United States in war or other conflicts have had an adverse impact on the Company by, among other things, adversely affecting retail sales as a result of reduced consumer spending, and by causing substantial increases in fuel prices thereby increasing the costs of doing business. Any future war, political conflict or significant act of terrorism on U.S. soil or elsewhere could have an adverse effect from the foregoing and by impeding the flow of imports or domestic products to the Company. The Company May Face Higher Operating Costs Approximately 52.3% of the Company's debt at January 29, 2005 has underlying variable interest rates, which may result in higher interest expense in the event interest rates are raised. (See Item 7A "Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk.") A substantial portion of the Company's stores are located in California and Washington. As a result, the Company is particularly sensitive to negative occurrences in those states. In mid-fiscal 2001, problems associated with the deregulation of the electric industry in California resulted in intermittent service interruptions and higher utility rates. The Company may face similar situations in the future. The Company's inability to adequately address these problems could have a material adverse affect on its financial position and results of operations. In addition, the Company is facing higher workers' compensation, unemployment compensation, health insurance and property and casualty insurance costs in the market areas in which it operates. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to fully offset the negative impact of such higher costs. The Company Depends On Key Personnel The Company's success depends to a large extent on its executive management team. The loss of the services of certain of its executives could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to retain such key personnel or attract additional qualified members to its management team in the future. The Company also depends on attracting and retaining a large number of qualified employees to maintain and increase sales and to execute its customer service programs. Many of its employees are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high levels of turnover. The Company's ability to meet its employment needs is dependent on a number of factors, including the following factors which affect its ability to hire or retain qualified employees: unemployment levels; minimum wage legislation; rising health care costs; and changing demographics in the local economies where stores are located. 