Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks, and those risks should be considered while evaluating our business and financial results. Any of the risks discussed below could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as the projections and beliefs about our future performance. Accordingly, our results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements. In addition, the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts and timing of revenue and expenses, the reported amounts and classification of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates and assumptions. (See Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies".) Our Sources of Liquidity Are Limited Our working capital requirements are currently met through a combination of cash generated by operations, borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility, short-term trade and factor credit, and by proceeds from external financings and sale transactions. In the event these sources of liquidity are not adequate, we may be required to pursue one or more alternative sources, which could include the sale of stores or the issuance of additional equity or equity-linked securities. If the estimates or assumptions relative to any one of these sources of liquidity are not realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Although we have significantly improved our leverage position, the ability to obtain additional or alternative sources of financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, new store openings, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes may be limited. This limited financial flexibility may result in increased vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, a more limited ability to react to changes in the business environment and the industry in which we compete, and being at a competitive disadvantage with competitors that have less debt and greater access to capital resources. Our existing debt agreements impose operating and financial restrictions that limit our ability to make dividend payments and grant liens, among other matters. We are Highly Dependent on Key Relationships with Vendors and Factors The success of our business is highly dependent upon the adequacy of trade credit offered by key vendors and factors to the Company's vendors, the vendors' ability and willingness to sell its products at favorable prices and terms, and the willingness of vendors to ship merchandise on a timely basis. Restrictions to the amount of trade credit granted by key factors and vendors can adversely impact the volume of merchandise we are able to purchase. Any significant reduction in the volume of merchandise we are able to purchase, or a prolonged disruption in the 9 timing of when merchandise is received, would have a material adverse affect on our business, liquidity position, and results of operations. We Face Significant Competition From Other Retailers The retail business is highly competitive, and if we fail to compete effectively, we could lose market share. Our primary competitors include national, regional and local chain department and specialty stores, general merchandise stores, discount and off-price retailers and outlet malls. Increased use and acceptance of the internet and other home shopping formats also creates increased competition. Some of these competitors offer similar or better-branded merchandise and have greater financial resources to purchase larger quantities of merchandise at lower prices. Our ability to counteract these competitive pressures depends on our ability to: offer merchandise which reflects the different regional and local needs of our customers; differentiate and market ourselves as a home-town, locally-oriented store (as opposed to our more nationally focused competitors); and continue to offer adequate quantities of better to moderately priced branded and private label merchandise at comparable profit margins. Our Business Is Susceptible To Economic Conditions and Other Factors That Affect Our Markets, Some of Which Are Beyond Our Control General Economic and Market Conditions. Our stores are located primarily in non-major metropolitan, suburban and agricultural areas in the western United States. A substantial portion of the stores are located in California and Washington. Our success depends upon consumer spending, which may be materially and adversely affected by any of the following events or conditions: the downturn in the national economy; the downturn in the local California and Pacific Northwest economies where the stores are located; the decline in consumer confidence; an increase in interest rates; inflation or deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; higher energy costs in California and the Pacific Northwest; higher healthcare and workers' compensation insurance costs; higher property and casualty insurance costs; tax rates and policy; and unemployment trends. Seasonality and Weather. Seasonal influences affect our sales and profits. We experience our highest levels of sales and profits during the Christmas selling months of November and December, and, to a lesser extent, during the Easter holiday and Back-to-School seasons. We have increased working capital needs prior to the Christmas season to carry significantly higher inventory levels and generally increase our selling staff levels to meet anticipated demands. Any substantial decrease in sales during our traditional peak selling periods could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also depend on normal weather patterns across our markets. Historically, unusual weather patterns have significantly impacted our business. Consumer Trends. Our success partially depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner. However, it is difficult to predict what merchandise consumers will demand, particularly merchandise that is trend driven. Failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could adversely affect short and long-term results. War and Acts of Terrorism. The involvement of the United States in war or other conflicts have had an adverse impact on us by, among other things, adversely affecting retail sales as a result of reduced consumer spending, and by causing substantial increases in fuel prices thereby increasing the costs of doing business. Any war, political conflict or significant act of terrorism on U.S. soil or elsewhere could have an adverse effect on us and could impede the flow of imports or domestic products to the Company. 10 We May Face Higher Operating Costs Approximately 78% of our debt at February 2, 2008 has underlying variable interest rates, which may result in higher interest expense in the event interest rates are raised. (See Item 7A "Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk") A substantial portion of our stores are located in California and Washington. As a result, we are particularly sensitive to negative occurrences in those states. Our inability to adequately address such problems could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we are facing higher unemployment compensation, health insurance and property and casualty insurance costs in the market areas in which we operate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully offset the negative impact of such higher costs. We Depend On Attracting and Retaining Quality Employees We depend on attracting and retaining a large number of qualified employees to maintain and increase sales and to execute our customer service programs. Many of our employees are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high levels of turnover. Our ability to meet our employment needs is dependent on a number of factors, including the following factors which affect our ability to hire or retain qualified employees: unemployment levels; minimum wage legislation; rising health care costs; and changing demographics in the local economies where stores are located. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 