ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS CURRENT LEVELS OF MARKET VOLATILITY ARE UNPRECEDENTED AND ADVERSE CAPITAL AND CREDIT MARKET CONDITIONS MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ACCESS COST-EFFECTIVE SOURCES OF FUNDING. 21 The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption which has led to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. We currently have in place financing arrangements which we anticipate will be sufficient to meet our needs for the next two years and we anticipate that our business will generate sufficient cash for us to service our debt. In connection with our revolving line of credit we have some exposure to financial institutions which have come under pressure as a result of the current credit crisis. For example, GE Commercial Finance Healthcare Financial Services finances the largest portion of our $55 million revolving credit facility. While GE has stated its GE Capital business to be sound, nevertheless, should it be unable to continue to provide funding under the revolving credit facility, our ability to replace GE at this time, on favorable terms, or at all, would be difficult, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. THE CALIFORNIA BUDGET CRISIS, IF NOT SUCCESSFULLY RESOLVED COULD HAVE AN IMPACT ON OUR REVENUE. California is experiencing a budget crisis which has resulted in significant state government cutbacks. 93 of our facilities are located in California. One to one-and-one-half percent (1% to 1.5%) of our revenues come from the California Medicaid program ($5 million to $7.5 million). While this is a relatively minor portion of our overall revenues, nevertheless, to the extent California is unable to provide these payments on a timely basis, or at all, our revenues will be negatively impacted. OUR FAILURE TO INTEGRATE THE BUSINESSES WE ACQUIRE SUCCESSFULLY AND ON A TIMELY BASIS INTO OUR OPERATIONS COULD REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY. We expect that our acquisitions will generally result in some synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. We, however, may never realize these expected synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. We may experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand our business. We may not be able to capitalize on expected business opportunities, assumptions underlying estimates of expected cost savings may be inaccurate, or general industry and business conditions may deteriorate. In addition, integrating operations will require significant efforts and expenses on our part. Personnel may leave or be terminated because of an acquisition. Our management may have its attention diverted while trying to integrate an acquisition. If these factors limit our ability to integrate the operations of an acquisition successfully or on a timely basis, our expectations of future results of operations, including certain cost savings and synergies expected to result from the acquisition, may not be met. In addition, our growth and operating strategies for a target's business may be different from the strategies that the target company pursued prior to our acquisition. If our strategies are not the proper strategies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED OPERATING LOSSES AND WE HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL ACCUMULATED DEFICIT. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO IMPROVE OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PAY OUR OBLIGATIONS. We have incurred net losses of $12.8 million, $18.1 million, $11.0 million and $6.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the two months ended December 31, 2006, and the year ended October 31, 2006, respectively. We had a stockholders' deficit of $81.1 million and $69.8 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. While we believe that our past actions have been successful in dealing with our liquidity and that in the future we will be able to address these issues and solidify our financial condition, we cannot give assurances that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH FLOW TO MEET OUR DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt and other contractual obligations will depend on our future financial performance. A range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of our control, will affect our financial performance. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt and other contractual obligations would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE REVENUE DEPENDS IN LARGE PART ON REFERRALS FROM PHYSICIANS. A significant reduction in referrals would have a negative impact on our business. We derive substantially all of our net revenue, directly or indirectly, from fees charged for the diagnostic imaging services performed at our facilities. We depend on referrals of patients from unaffiliated physicians and other third parties who have no contractual obligations to refer patients to us for a substantial portion of the services we perform. If a sufficiently large number of these physicians and other third parties were to discontinue referring patients to us, our scan volume could decrease, which would reduce our net revenue and operating margins. Further, commercial third-party payors have implemented programs that could limit the ability of physicians to refer patients to us. For example, prepaid healthcare plans, such as health maintenance organizations, sometimes contract directly with providers and require their enrollees to obtain these services exclusively from those providers. Some insurance companies and self-insured employers also limit these 22 services to contracted providers. These "closed panel" systems are now common in the managed care environment. Other systems create an economic disincentive for referrals to providers outside the system's designated panel of providers. If we are unable to compete successfully for these managed care contracts, our results and prospects for growth could be adversely affected. CHANGES IN THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENT RATES OR METHODS FOR DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING SERVICES COULD RESULT IN A DECLINE IN OUR NET REVENUE AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. The fees charged for the diagnostic imaging services performed at our facilities are paid by insurance companies, Medicare and Medicaid, workers compensation, private and other payors. Any change in the rates of or conditions for reimbursement from these sources of payment could substantially reduce the amounts reimbursed to us or to our contracted radiology practices for services provided, which could have a material adverse effect on our net revenue. For example, recent legislative changes in California's workers compensation rules had a negative impact on reimbursement rates for diagnostic imaging services, and federal Medicare changes taking effect beginning January 1, 2007 have also had a negative impact on the rates paid for MRI, CT and PET services. PRESSURE TO CONTROL HEALTHCARE COSTS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR RESULTS. One of the principal objectives of health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations is to control the cost of healthcare services. Managed care contracting has become very competitive, and reimbursement schedules are at or below Medicare reimbursement levels. The development and expansion of health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care organizations within the geographic areas covered by our network could have a negative impact on the utilization and pricing of our services, because these organizations will exert greater control over patients' access to diagnostic imaging services, the selections of the provider of such services and reimbursement rates for those services. IF BRMG OR ANY OF OUR OTHER CONTRACTED RADIOLOGY PRACTICES TERMINATE THEIR AGREEMENTS WITH US, OUR BUSINESS COULD SUBSTANTIALLY DIMINISH. Our relationship with BRMG is an integral part of our business. Through our management agreement, BRMG provides all of the professional medical services at 85 of our 93 California facilities with the balance of our other facilities through management contracts with other radiology groups. BRMG and these other radiology groups contract with various other independent physicians and physician groups to provide all of the professional medical services at most of our facilities, and must use their best efforts to provide the professional medical services at any new facilities that we open or acquire in their areas of operation. In addition, the radiology groups' strong relationships with referring physicians are largely responsible for the revenue generated at the facilities they service. Although our management agreement with BRMG runs until 2014, and with the other groups for terms as long, if not longer, BRMG and the other radiology groups have the right to terminate the agreements if we default on our obligations and fail to cure the default. Also, the various radiology groups' ability to continue performing under the management agreements may be curtailed or eliminated due to the groups' financial difficulties, loss of physicians or other circumstances. If the radiology groups cannot perform their obligations to us, we would need to contract with one or more other radiology groups to provide the professional medical services at the facilities serviced by the group. We may not be able to locate radiology groups willing to provide those services on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Even if we were able to do so, any replacement radiology group's relationships with referring physicians may not be as extensive as those of the terminated group. In any such event, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, the radiology groups are party to substantially all of the managed care contracts from which we derive revenue. If we were unable to readily replace these contracts, our revenue would be negatively affected. IF OUR CONTRACTED RADIOLOGY PRACTICES, INCLUDING BRMG, LOSE A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF THEIR RADIOLOGISTS, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. At times, there has been a shortage of qualified radiologists in some of the regional markets we serve. In addition, competition in recruiting radiologists may make it difficult for our contracted radiology practices to maintain adequate levels of radiologists. If a significant number of radiologists terminate their relationships with our contracted radiology practices and those radiology practices cannot recruit sufficient qualified radiologists to fulfill their obligations under our agreements with them, our ability to maximize the use of our diagnostic imaging facilities and our financial results could be adversely affected. For example, in fiscal 2002, due to a shortage of qualified radiologists in the marketplace, BRMG experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining physicians and thus engaged independent contractors and part-time fill-in physicians. Their cost was double the salary of a regular BRMG full-time physician. Increased expenses to BRMG will impact our financial results because the management fee we receive from BRMG, which is based on a percentage of BRMG's collections, is adjusted annually to take into account the expenses of BRMG. Neither we, nor our contracted radiology practices, maintain insurance on the lives of any affiliated physicians. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY GROW OUR BUSINESS. As part of our business strategy, we intend to increase our presence in the areas we serve through selectively acquiring facilities, developing new facilities, adding equipment at existing facilities, and directly or indirectly entering into contractual relationships with high-quality radiology practices. 23 However, our ability to successfully expand depends upon many factors, including our ability to: o Identify attractive and willing candidates for acquisitions; o Identify locations in existing or new markets for development of new facilities; o Comply with legal requirements affecting our arrangements with contracted radiology practices, including state prohibitions on fee-splitting, corporate practice of medicine and self-referrals; o Obtain regulatory approvals where necessary and comply with licensing and certification requirements applicable to our diagnostic imaging facilities, the contracted radiology practices and the physicians associated with the contracted radiology practices; o Recruit a sufficient number of qualified radiology technologists and other non-medical personnel; o Expand our infrastructure and management; and o Compete for opportunities. We may not be able to compete effectively for the acquisition of diagnostic imaging facilities. Our competitors may have more established operating histories and greater resources than we do. Competition also may make any acquisitions more expensive. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including the following: o Inability to obtain adequate financing; o Possible adverse effects on our operating results; o Diversion of management's attention and resources; o Failure to retain key personnel; o Difficulties in integrating new operations into our existing infrastructure; and o Amortization or write-offs of acquired intangible assets. WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO PROFESSIONAL MALPRACTICE LIABILITY. Providing medical services subjects us to the risk of professional malpractice and other similar claims. The physicians that our contracted radiology practices employ are from time to time subject to malpractice claims. We structure our relationships with the practices under our management agreements with them in a manner that we believe does not constitute the practice of medicine by us or subject us to professional malpractice claims for acts or omissions of physicians employed by the contracted radiology practices. Nevertheless, claims, suits or complaints relating to services provided by the contracted radiology practices have been asserted against us in the past and may be asserted against us in the future. In addition, we may be subject to professional liability claims, including, without limitation, for improper use or malfunction of our diagnostic imaging equipment. We may not be able to maintain adequate liability insurance to protect us against those claims at acceptable costs or at all. Any claim made against us that is not fully covered by insurance could be costly to defend, result in a substantial damage award against us and divert the attention of our management from our operations, all of which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, successful claims against us may adversely affect our business or reputation. Although California places a $250,000 limit on non-economic damages for medical malpractice cases, no limit applies to economic damages and no such limits exist in the other states in which we now provide services. To reduce our exposure to claims incurred but not reported under the annual policy, the Company purchased an effective tail policy to cover all claims filed after December 31, 2008 relating to incidents prior to January 1, 2009, thus eliminating any liability for future claims made related to December 31, 2008 and prior. SOME OF OUR IMAGING MODALITIES USE RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS, WHICH GENERATE REGULATED WASTE AND COULD SUBJECT US TO LIABILITIES FOR INJURIES OR VIOLATIONS OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH AND SAFETY LAWS. Some of our imaging procedures use radioactive materials, which generate medical and other regulated wastes. For example, patients are injected with a radioactive substance before undergoing a PET scan. Storage, use and disposal of these materials and waste products present the risk of accidental environmental contamination and physical injury. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could incur significant costs and the diversion of our management's attention in order to comply with current or future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Also, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these hazardous materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed the limits of or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. 24 WE EXPERIENCE COMPETITION FROM OTHER DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING COMPANIES AND HOSPITALS. THIS COMPETITION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUE AND BUSINESS. The market for diagnostic imaging services is highly competitive. We compete principally on the basis of our reputation, our ability to provide multiple modalities at many of our facilities, the location of our facilities and the quality of our diagnostic imaging services. We compete locally with groups of radiologists, established hospitals, clinics and other independent organizations that own and operate imaging equipment. Our major national competitors include Alliance Imaging, Inc., Medical Resources, Inc. and InSight Health Services. Some of our competitors may now or in the future have access to greater financial resources than we do and may have access to newer, more advanced equipment. In addition, some physician practices have established their own diagnostic imaging facilities within their group practices and compete with us. We are experiencing increased competition as a result of such activities. STATE AND FEDERAL ANTI-KICKBACK AND ANTI-SELF-REFERRAL LAWS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT INCOME. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among healthcare providers. The federal anti-kickback law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. Similarly, many state laws prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. Violation of these anti-kickback laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities and/or exclusion from federal or state healthcare programs. We believe we are operating in compliance with applicable law and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the anti-kickback laws. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our operations. Federal law prohibiting physician self-referrals (the "Stark Law") prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to an entity for certain "designated health services" if the physician has a prohibited financial relationship with that entity, unless an exception applies. Certain radiology services are considered "designated health services" under the Stark Law. Although we believe our operations do not violate the Stark Law, our activities may be challenged. If a challenge to our activities is successful, it could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, legislation may be enacted in the future that further addresses Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse or that imposes additional requirements or burdens on us. All of the states in which our diagnostic imaging centers are located have adopted a form of anti-kickback law and almost all of those states have also adopted a form of Stark Law. The scope of these laws and the interpretations of them vary from state to state and are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. A determination of liability under the laws described in this risk factor could result in fines and penalties and restrictions on our ability to operate in these jurisdictions. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE IN OUR INDUSTRY COULD REDUCE THE DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES AND REQUIRE US TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS TO UPGRADE OUR EQUIPMENT. The development of new technologies or refinements of existing modalities may require us to upgrade and enhance our existing equipment before we may otherwise intend. Many companies currently manufacture diagnostic imaging equipment. Competition among manufacturers for a greater share of the diagnostic imaging equipment market may result in technological advances in the speed and imaging capacity of new equipment. This may accelerate the obsolescence of our equipment, and we may not have the financial ability to acquire the new or improved equipment. In that event, we may be unable to deliver our services in the efficient and effective manner that payors, physicians and patients expect and thus our revenue could substantially decrease. A FAILURE TO MEET OUR CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We operate in a capital intensive, high fixed-cost industry that requires significant amounts of capital to fund operations, particularly the initial start-up and development expenses of new diagnostic imaging facilities and the acquisition of additional facilities and new diagnostic imaging equipment. We incur capital expenditures to, among other things, upgrade and replace existing equipment for existing facilities and expand within our existing markets and enter new markets. To the extent we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations, funds are not available from our lenders or we are unable to structure or obtain financing through operating leases, long-term installment notes or capital leases, we may be unable to meet our capital expenditure requirements. BECAUSE WE HAVE HIGH FIXED COSTS, LOWER SCAN VOLUMES PER SYSTEM COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The principal components of our expenses, excluding depreciation, consist of compensation paid to technologists, salaries, real estate lease expenses and equipment maintenance costs. Because a majority of these expenses are fixed, a relatively small change in our revenue could have a 25 disproportionate effect on our operating and financial results depending on the source of our revenue. Thus, decreased revenue as a result of lower scan volumes per system could result in lower margins, which could materially adversely affect our business. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS IN PART ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN SUFFICIENT QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. IN ADDITION, FORMER EMPLOYEES COULD USE THE EXPERIENCE AND RELATIONSHIPS DEVELOPED WHILE EMPLOYED WITH US TO COMPETE WITH US. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and executive management, managerial and technical personnel. Competition in recruiting these personnel may make it difficult for us to continue our growth and success. The loss of their services or our inability in the future to attract and retain management and other key personnel could hinder the implementation of our business strategy. The loss of the services of Dr. Howard G. Berger, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Norman R. Hames or Stephen M. Forthuber, our Chief Operating Officers, west and east coast, respectively, could have a significant negative impact on our operations. We believe that they could not easily be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities. We do not maintain key person insurance on the life of any of our executive officers with the exception of a $5.0 million policy on the life of Dr. Berger. Also, if we lose the services of Dr. Berger, our relationship with BRMG could deteriorate, which would adversely affect our business. Many of the states in which we operate do not enforce agreements that prohibit a former employee from competing with a former employer. As a result, many of our employees whose employment is terminated are free to compete with us, subject to prohibitions on the use of confidential information and, depending on the terms of the employee's employment agreement, on solicitation of existing employees and customers. A former executive, manager or other key employee who joins one of our competitors could use the relationships he or she established with third party payors, radiologists or referring physicians while our employee and the industry knowledge he or she acquired during that tenure to enhance the new employer's ability to compete with us. CAPITATION FEE ARRANGEMENTS COULD REDUCE OUR OPERATING MARGINS. For fiscal 2008 we derived approximately 15% of our net revenue from capitation arrangements, and we intend to increase the revenue we derive from capitation arrangements in the future. Under capitation arrangements, the payor pays a pre-determined amount per-patient per-month in exchange for us providing all necessary covered services to the patients covered under the arrangement. These contracts pass much of the financial risk of providing diagnostic imaging services, including the risk of over-use, from the payor to the provider. Our success depends in part on our ability to negotiate effectively, on behalf of the contracted radiology practices and our diagnostic imaging facilities, contracts with health maintenance organizations, employer groups and other third-party payors for services to be provided on a capitated basis and to efficiently manage the utilization of those services. If we are not successful in managing the utilization of services under these capitation arrangements or if patients or enrollees covered by these contracts require more frequent or extensive care than anticipated, we would incur unanticipated costs not offset by additional revenue, which would reduce operating margins. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO EFFECTIVELY MAINTAIN OUR EQUIPMENT OR GENERATE REVENUE WHEN OUR EQUIPMENT IS NOT OPERATIONAL. Timely, effective service is essential to maintaining our reputation and high use rates on our imaging equipment. Although we have an agreement with GE Medical Systems pursuant to which it maintains and repairs the majority of our imaging equipment, this agreement does not compensate us for loss of revenue when our systems are not fully operational and our business interruption insurance may not provide sufficient coverage for the loss of revenue. Also, GE Medical Systems may not be able to perform repairs or supply needed parts in a timely manner. Therefore, if we experience more equipment malfunctions than anticipated or if we are unable to promptly obtain the service necessary to keep our equipment functioning effectively, our ability to provide services would be adversely affected and our revenue could decline. DISRUPTION OR MALFUNCTION IN OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our information technology system is vulnerable to damage or interruption from: o Earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters; o Power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic losses of data and similar events; and o Computer viruses, penetration by hackers seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security. We rely on our information systems to perform functions critical to our ability to operate, including patient scheduling, billing, collections, image storage and image transmission. Accordingly, an extended interruption in the system's function could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. 26 WE ARE VULNERABLE TO EARTHQUAKES AND OTHER NATURAL DISASTERS. Our headquarters and 93 of our facilities are located in California, an area prone to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Three of our facilities are located in an area of Florida, which has suffered from hurricanes. An earthquake or other natural disaster could seriously impair our operations, and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover us for the resulting losses. COMPLYING WITH FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATIONS IS AN EXPENSIVE AND TIME-CONSUMING PROCESS, AND ANY FAILURE TO COMPLY COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL PENALTIES. We are directly or indirectly through the radiology practices with which we contract subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the state governments in which we provide services, including: o The federal False Claims Act; o The federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws, and state anti-kickback prohibitions; o Federal and state billing and claims submission laws and regulations; o The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996; o The federal physician self-referral prohibition commonly known as the Stark Law and the state equivalent of the Stark Law; o State laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians and prohibit fee-splitting arrangements involving physicians; o Federal and state laws governing the diagnostic imaging and therapeutic equipment we use in our business concerning patient safety, equipment operating specifications and radiation exposure levels; and o State laws governing reimbursement for diagnostic services related to services compensable under workers compensation rules. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we or the radiology practices with which we contract are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our operations, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risks of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action brought against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. For a more detailed discussion of the various federal and state laws and regulations to which we are subject, see "Business - Regulation." IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH VARIOUS LICENSURE, CERTIFICATION AND ACCREDITATION STANDARDS, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO LOSS OF LICENSURE, CERTIFICATION OR ACCREDITATION, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Ownership, construction, operation, expansion and acquisition of our diagnostic imaging facilities are subject to various federal and state laws, regulations and approvals concerning licensing of personnel, other required certificates for certain types of healthcare facilities and certain medical equipment. In addition, freestanding diagnostic imaging facilities that provide services independent of a physician's office must be enrolled by Medicare as an independent diagnostic testing facility to bill the Medicare program. Medicare carriers have discretion in applying the independent diagnostic testing facility requirements and therefore the application of these requirements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We may not be able to receive the required regulatory approvals for any future acquisitions, expansions or replacements, and the failure to obtain these approvals could limit the opportunity to expand our services. Our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by governmental and other authorities to assure continued compliance with the various standards necessary for licensure and certification. If any facility loses its certification under the Medicare program, then the facility will be ineligible to receive reimbursement from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 23% of our net revenue came from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A change in the applicable certification status of one of our facilities could adversely affect our other facilities and in turn us as a whole. We have experienced a slowdown in the credentialing of our physicians over the last several years which has lengthened our billing and collection cycle, and could negatively impact our ability to collect revenue from patients covered by Medicare. Credentialing of physicians is required by our payors prior to commencing payment. 27 OUR AGREEMENTS WITH THE CONTRACTED RADIOLOGY PRACTICES MUST BE STRUCTURED TO AVOID THE CORPORATE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE AND FEE-SPLITTING. State law prohibits us from exercising control over the medical judgments or decisions of physicians and from engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as splitting professional fees with physicians. These laws are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. A component of our business has been to enter into management agreements with radiology practices. We provide management, administrative, technical and other non-medical services to the radiology practices in exchange for a service fee typically based on a percentage of the practice's revenue. We structure our relationships with the radiology practices, including the purchase of diagnostic imaging facilities, in a manner that we believe keeps us from engaging in the practice of medicine or exercising control over the medical judgments or decisions of the radiology practices or their physicians or violating the prohibitions against fee-splitting. However, because challenges to these types of arrangements are not required to be reported, we cannot substantiate our belief. There can be no assurance that our present arrangements with BRMG or the physicians providing medical services and medical supervision at our imaging facilities will not be challenged, and, if challenged, that they will not be found to violate the corporate practice prohibition, thus subjecting us to potential damages, injunction and/or civil and criminal penalties or require us to restructure our arrangements in a way that would affect the control or quality of our services and/or change the amounts we receive under our management agreements. Any of these results could jeopardize our business. FUTURE FEDERAL LEGISLATION COULD LIMIT THE PRICES WE CAN CHARGE FOR OUR SERVICES, WHICH WOULD REDUCE OUR REVENUE AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. In addition to extensive existing government healthcare regulation, there are numerous initiatives affecting the coverage of and payment for healthcare services, including proposals that would significantly limit reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Limitations on reimbursement amounts and other cost containment pressures have in the past resulted in a decrease in the revenue we receive for each scan we perform. THE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK IN WHICH WE OPERATE IS UNCERTAIN AND EVOLVING. Healthcare laws and regulations may change significantly in the future. We continuously monitor these developments and modify our operations from time to time as the regulatory environment changes. We cannot assure you however, that we will be able to adapt our operations to address new regulations or that new regulations will not adversely affect our business. In addition, although we believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable federal and state laws, neither our current or anticipated business operations nor the operations of the contracted radiology practices have been the subject of judicial or regulatory interpretation. We cannot assure you that a review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities will not result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations or that the healthcare regulatory environment will not change in a way that restricts our operations. Certain states have enacted statutes or adopted regulations affecting risk assumption in the healthcare industry, including statutes and regulations that subject any physician or physician network engaged in risk-based managed care contracting to applicable insurance laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, if adopted in the states in which we operate, may require physicians and physician networks to meet minimum capital requirements and other safety and soundness requirements. Implementing additional regulations or compliance requirements could result in substantial costs to us and the contracted radiology practices and limit our ability to enter into capitation or other risk sharing managed care arrangements. OUR SUBSTANTIAL DEBT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND PREVENT US FROM FULFILLING OUR OBLIGATIONS. Our current substantial indebtedness and any future indebtedness we incur could adversely affect our financial condition, which could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors. Our substantial indebtedness could also: |X| Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; |X| Increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; |X| Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; |X| Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and |X| Limit our ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 