ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We depend on a limited number of customers, and any reduction, delay or cancellation of an order from these customers or the loss of any of these customers could cause our revenue to decline. 12 Our dependence on a limited number of customers means that the loss of a major customer or any reduction in orders by a major customer could materially reduce our net revenue and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. We have no firm, long-term volume commitments from any of our major customers and we generally enter into individual purchase orders with our customers. Customer purchase orders may be cancelled and order volume levels can be changed, cancelled or delayed with limited or no penalties. We have experienced fluctuations in order levels from period to period and expect that we will continue to experience such fluctuations and may experience cancellations in the future. We may not be able to replace the cancelled, delayed or reduced purchase orders with new orders. Any difficulty in the collection of receivables from key customers could also harm our business. For fiscal 2008, MTC Singapore, Uniquest and, Macnica accounted for 23%, 19% and 12%, respectively, of our net revenue. For fiscal 2007, Freebox and Uniquest accounted for 20% and 17%, respectively, of our net revenue. For fiscal 2006, Uniquest accounted for 26% of our net revenue. If we fail to achieve initial design wins for our products, we may be unable to recoup our investments in our products and revenue could decline. We expend considerable resources in order to achieve design wins for our products, especially our new products and product enhancements, without any assurance that a customer will select our product. Once a customer designs a semiconductor into a product, it is likely to continue to use the same semiconductor or enhanced versions of that semiconductor from the same supplier across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time, due to the significant costs and risks associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning the product to incorporate a different semiconductor. As a result, if we fail to achieve an initial design win in a customer's qualification process, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a number of its products and for a lengthy period of time, or we would only be able to sell our products to these customers as a second source, which usually means we would only be able to sell a limited amount of product to them. Also, even if we achieve new design wins with customers, these manufacturers may not purchase our products in sufficient volumes to recoup our development costs, and they can choose at any time to stop using our products, for example, if their own products are not commercially successful. This may cause us to be unable to recoup our investments in the development of our products and cause our revenue to decline. Our industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively, which would harm our market share and cause our revenue to decline. The markets in which we operate are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, continuously evolving customer requirements and declining average selling prices. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. We compete with large semiconductor providers that have substantial experience and expertise in video, audio and multimedia technology and in selling to consumer equipment providers. Many of these companies have substantially greater engineering, marketing and financial resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Further, some of our competitors are in a better financial and marketing position from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology than we are. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower price. We also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies and customers who choose to develop their own SoCs. Lastly, some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities or may have stronger manufacturing partner relationships than we have. We expect our current customers, particularly in the IPTV and high definition DVD player markets, to seek additional suppliers of SoCs for inclusion in their products, which will increase competition and could reduce our market share. If we do not compete successfully, our market share and net revenue could decline. The timing of our customer orders and product shipments can adversely affect our operating results and stock price. Our quarterly revenue and operating results depend upon the volume and timing of customer orders received during a given quarter and the percentage of each order that we are able to ship and recognize as net revenue during each quarter. Customers may change their cycle of product orders from us, which would affect the timing of our product shipments. For example, we currently anticipate a decline in orders from a significant customer in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 compared to recently completed quarters as a result of what we believe to be a one-time adjustment to order volume from an end customer. Any failure or delay in the closing of orders expected to occur within a quarterly period, particularly from a significant customer, would adversely affect our operating results. Further, to the extent we receive orders late in any given quarter, we may be unable to ship products to fill those orders during the same quarter in which we received the corresponding order, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results for that quarter. 13 We base orders for inventory on our forecasts of our customers' demand and if our forecasts are inaccurate, our financial condition and liquidity would suffer. We place orders with our suppliers based on our forecasts of our customers' demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates. When the demand for our customers' products increases significantly, we may not be able to meet demand on a timely basis, and we may need to expend a significant amount of time working with our customers to allocate limited supply and maintain positive customer relations. If we underestimate customer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to or at all. As a result, we would have excess or obsolete inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase our cost of revenue and create a drain on our liquidity. Our failure to accurately manage inventory against demand would adversely affect our financial results. If demand for our SoCs declines or does not grow, we will be unable to increase or sustain our net revenue. We currently expect our SoCs to account for the substantial majority of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. For the twelve months ended February 2, 2008, sales of our SoCs represented 98% of our net revenue. Even if the sectors of one consumer electronics market that we target continue to expand, manufacturers of consumer products in these sectors may not choose to utilize our SoCs in their consumer products. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent introduction of new technologies, short product life cycles and significant price competition. If we or our customers are unable to manage product transitions in a timely and cost effective manner, our net revenue would suffer. In addition, frequent technological changes and introduction of next generation products may result in inventory obsolescence which would increase our cost of revenue and adversely affect our operating performance. If demand for our SoCs declines or fails to grow or we are unable to develop new products to meet our customers' demand, our net revenue could be harmed We may not be able to effectively manage our growth or develop our financial and managerial control and reporting systems, and we may need to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements of our growth, either of which could harm our business and operating results. To continue to grow, we must continue to expand and improve our operational, engineering, accounting and financial systems, procedures, controls and other internal management systems. This may require substantial managerial and financial resources, and our efforts in this regard may not be successful. Our current systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. For example, we are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource management system in connection with our efforts to address the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to adequately manage our growth, or to improve and develop our operational, financial and management information systems, or fail to effectively motivate or manage our new and future employees, the quality of our products and the management of our operations could suffer, which could adversely affect our operating results. If the growth of demand in the consumer electronics market does not continue, our ability to increase our revenue could suffer. Our business is highly dependent on developing sectors of the consumer electronics market, including IPTV, high definition DVD and other media players and HDTVs. The consumer electronics market is highly competitive and is characterized by, among other things, frequent introductions of new products and short product life cycles. The consumer electronics market may also be negatively impacted by a slowdown in overall consumer spending. If our target markets do not grow as rapidly or to the extent we anticipate, our business could suffer. We expect the majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future to come from the sale of our SoC solutions for use in emerging consumer applications. Our ability to sustain and increase revenue is in large part dependent on the continued growth of these rapidly evolving market sectors, whose future is largely uncertain. Many factors could impede or interfere with the expansion of these consumer market sectors, including consumer demand in these sectors, general economic conditions, other competing consumer electronic products, delays in the deployment of telecommunications video services and insufficient interest in new technology innovations. In addition, if market acceptance of the consumer products that utilize our products does not occur as expected, our business could be harmed. The review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our historical stock option granting practices and the related restatement of our historical financial statements, which we completed in connection with the audit of our financial statements for fiscal 2007, have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. For more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see the section entitled "Legal Proceedings" under Part I, Item 3. We have provided the results of our internal review and investigation of our stock option practices to the SEC, and in that regard we have responded to informal requests for documents and additional information. We intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC and any other governmental agency which may become involved in this matter. We cannot give any assurance regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 In addition, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. As a result of our internal review of our historical stock option granting practices, we were unable to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC during fiscal 2007. We were also subject to delisting proceedings in front of the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Staff. After we filed all of our outstanding periodic reports with the SEC in April 2007, we received a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Staff letter stating that the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Staff determined that we had demonstrated compliance with all Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. Accordingly, our securities will continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. However, if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports or other actions that might result in the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market. We have reported material weaknesses in our controls over financial reporting in fiscal 2005 through 2007. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of February 2, 2008, our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on this assessment, our management determined we had remediated the prior year’s material weaknesses and that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of February 2, 2008. However, prior to this year we had ongoing material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting since the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, the first year in which we were required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Further, in September 2006, we announced that our historical financial statements should no longer be relied upon as a result of our preliminary determination of an internal review relating to our practices in administering stock option grants. We continued to have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which resulted in ineffective internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended February 2, 2007. In August 2007, we filed an amendment to our annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2007, in order to correct certain clerical errors in our financial statements and financial statement footnotes. Effective controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed and the market price of our common stock could decline. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we identify additional material weaknesses in the future, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. In addition, if we cannot maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations. We derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from our customers outside of North America and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. In fiscal 2008, we derived 95% of our revenue from customers outside of North America. We also have significant international operations, including a significant newly established operation in Singapore, research and development facilities in France and Canada and a sales office in Hong Kong. As a result of our international business, we are affected by economic, regulatory and political conditions in foreign countries, including the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, difficulties in collecting receivables and enforcing contracts, natural disasters, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates, economic instability, public health crises, acts of terrorism and continued unrest in many regions and other factors, which could have a material impact on our international revenue and operations. In particular, in some countries we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase the sales price in local currencies of our products in international markets. Overseas sales and purchases to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in any hedging activities to reduce our exposure to exchange rate risks. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or United States laws or regulations applicable to us. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business results. 15 The average selling prices of semiconductor products have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins. The semiconductor industry, in general, and the consumer electronics markets that we target, specifically, are characterized by intense price competition, frequent introductions of new products and short product life cycles, which can result in rapid price erosion in the average selling prices for semiconductor products. A decline in the average selling prices of our products could harm our revenue and gross margins. The willingness of customers to design our SoCs into their products depends to a significant extent upon our ability to sell our products at competitive prices. In the past, we have reduced our prices to meet customer requirements or to maintain a competitive advantage. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could impact our average selling prices to all customers. If we are unable to reduce our costs sufficiently to offset declines in product prices or are unable to introduce more advanced products with higher margins in a timely manner, we could experience declines in our net revenue and gross margins. We have a history of fluctuating operating results, including a net loss in fiscal 2006, and we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have a history of fluctuating operating results. We suffered a net loss of $1.6 million in fiscal 2006 and became profitable again in fiscal 2007 with net income of $6.2 million, and reported net income of $70.2 million in fiscal 2008 due to continued increases in the adoption of and demand for our products in the markets we serve. As of February 2, 2008, we had retained earnings of $3.6 million. To sustain or increase profitability, we will need to successfully develop new products and product enhancements and sustain higher revenue while controlling our cost and expense levels. In recent years, we made significant investments in our product development efforts and have expended substantial funds to enhance our sales and marketing efforts and otherwise operate our business. However, we may not realize the benefits of these investments. Although we were profitable in fiscal 2008, we may not continue to be profitable. We may incur operating losses in future quarterly periods or fiscal years, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors, such as the current shareholder derivative lawsuits against certain of our current and former officers and directors, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies such as ours in the semiconductor industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. While we are not aware of any such contemplated class action litigation against us, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. In addition, we and certain of our current and former officers and directors are subject to various shareholder derivative lawsuits. A description of these lawsuits can be found under the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Part I, Item 3. Although we recently reached an agreement to settle these shareholder derivative lawsuits, the agreement remains subject to final documentation and court approval. If this settlement is not finalized, we would be required to continue to litigate these matters. These lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely be, expensive and time consuming to investigate, defend and resolve. Such costs of investigation and defense, the diversion of our management’s attention and resources and any losses resulting from these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenue will suffer. We may not be able to accurately anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or to meet them in a timely manner. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: •accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; 16 •accurately design new SoC products; •timely complete and introduce new product designs; •timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the equipment into which our products will be incorporated; •ensure that our subcontractors have sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials and achieve acceptable manufacturing yields; •shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and •gain market acceptance of our products and our customers' products. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or to develop new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a cost-effective and timely manner, it could substantially decrease market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and we may be unable to attract new customers or retain our existing customers, which would significantly harm our business and financial results. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, our new products or enhancements may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Any failure of our products to achieve market acceptance could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our ability to develop, market and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of key executive, engineering, finance and accounting, sales, marketing and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the semiconductor industry, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell or support our products. Our sales cycle can be lengthy, which could result in uncertainty and delays in generating net revenue. Because our products are based on constantly evolving technologies, we have experienced a lengthy sales cycle for some of our SoCs, particularly those designed for set-top box applications in the IPTV market. After we have delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product with its service provider customer prior to the customer completing the design of its own equipment that will incorporate our product. Our customers and the telecommunications carriers our customers serve may need three to more than six months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three to more than nine months to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Our complete sales cycle typically ranges from nine to eighteen months, but could be longer. As a result, we may experience a significant delay between the time we increase expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing efforts and inventory and the time we generate net revenue, if any, from these expenditures. In addition, because we do not have long-term commitments from our customers, we must repeat our sales process on a continual basis even for current customers looking to purchase a new product. As a result, our business could be harmed if a customer reduces or delays its orders, chooses not to release products incorporating our SoCs or elects not to purchase a new product or product enhancements from us. We rely on a limited number of independent third-party manufacturers for the fabrication, assembly and testing of our SoCs, and the failure of any of these third-party manufacturers to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We are a fabless semiconductor company, and thus we do not own or operate a fabrication or manufacturing facility. We depend on independent manufacturers, each of whom is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies, to manufacture, assemble and test our products. We currently rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, or TSMC, to produce substantially all of our SoCs. We rely on Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., or ASE, to assemble, package and test substantially all of our products. Although we have contracts with both of these manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to manufacture our products or perform services on our behalf on a long-term basis, in any specific quantity or at any specific price. Neither TSMC nor ASE has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available for us to meet future demand for our products. These third-party manufacturers may allocate capacity to the production of other companies' products while reducing product deliveries or the provision of services to us on short notice, or they may increase the prices of the products and services they provide to us with little or no notice. In particular, other clients that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with TSMC or ASE may cause either or both of them to reallocate capacity to those clients, decreasing the capacity available to us. 17 If we fail to effectively manage our relationships with TSMC and ASE, if we are unable to secure sufficient capacity at our third-party manufacturers' facilities or if any of them should experience delays, disruptions or technical or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional third-party manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed, our relationships with our customers would suffer and our market share and operating results would suffer. If our third-party manufacturers' pricing for the products and services they provide increases and we are unable to pass along such increases to our customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or additional third-party subcontractors would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, all of our product manufacturing, assembly and packaging is performed in Asian countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in these countries, such as quarantines or closures of manufacturing facilities due to the outbreak of viruses, such as SARS, avian flu or any similar outbreaks. Each of these factors could harm our business and financial results. In the event we seek or are required to use a new manufacturer to fabricate or to assemble and test all or a portion of our SoC products, we may not be able to bring new manufacturers on-line rapidly enough, which could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. As indicated above, we use a single wafer foundry to manufacture substantially all of our products and a single source to assemble and test substantially all of our products, which exposes us to a substantial risk of delay, increased costs and customer dissatisfaction in the event our third-party manufacturers are unable to provide us with our SoC requirements. Particularly during times when semiconductor capacity is limited, we may seek to, and in the event that our current foundry were to stop producing wafers for us altogether, we would be required to, qualify one or more additional wafer foundries to meet our requirements, which would be time consuming and costly. In order to bring these new foundries on-line, we and our customers would need to qualify their facilities, which process could take as long as several months. Once qualified, these new foundries would then require an additional number of months to actually begin producing SoCs to meet our needs, by which time our perceived need for additional capacity may have passed, or the opportunities we previously identified may have been lost to our competitors. Similarly, qualifying a new provider of assembly, packaging and testing services would be a lengthy and costly process and, in both cases, they could prove to be less reliable than our existing manufacturers, which could result in increased costs and expenses as well as delays in deliveries of our products to our customers. If our third-party manufacturers do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our relationships with our customers and our reputation will be harmed, which in turn would harm our operating results and financial performance. The fabrication of semiconductors is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields and, in some cases, cause production to be stopped or suspended. Although we work closely with our third-party manufacturers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, their facilities have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields that have resulted in our inability to meet our customer demand. It is not uncommon for yields in semiconductor fabrication facilities to decrease in times of high demand, in addition to reduced yields that may result from normal wafer lot loss due to workmanship or operational problems at these facilities. When these events occur, especially simultaneously, as happens from time to time, we may be unable to supply our customers' demand. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from the wafer foundries or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, or force us to sell our products at lower gross margins and therefore harm our financial results. To remain competitive, we need to continue to transition our SoCs to increasingly smaller sizes while maintaining or increasing functionality, and our failure to do so may harm our business. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller chips, which are measured in microns and referred to as geometry processes. The smaller chip size reduces our production and packaging costs, which enables us to be competitive in our pricing. We also continually strive to increase the functionality of our SoCs, which is essential to competing effectively in our target markets. The transition to smaller geometries while maintaining or increasing functionality requires us to work with our contractors to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers, and our failure to do so would impact our ability to provide competitive prices to our customers, which would have a negative impact on our sales. 18 The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects, which could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, adversely affect the market acceptance of new products and result in warranty claims. Highly complex products, such as those that we offer, frequently contain defects, particularly when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our SoCs contain highly sophisticated silicon technology and complex software. In the past we have experienced, and may in the future experience, defects in our products, both with our SoCs and the related software products we offer. If any of our products contain defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and our customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. Manufacturing defects may not be detected by the testing process performed by our subcontractors. If defects are discovered after we have shipped our products, it could result in unanticipated costs, order cancellations or deferrals and product recalls, harm to our reputation and a decline in our net revenue, income from operations and gross margins. In addition, our agreements with some customers contain warranty provisions, which provide the customer with a right to damages if a defect is traced to our products or if we cannot correct errors in our product reported during the warranty period, and other limitations to our liability. However, our contractual limitations to our liability may be unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction. We do not have insurance coverage for any warranty or product liability claims, and a successful claim could require us to pay substantial damages. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, could have adverse effects on our business results. We may engage in investments in and acquisitions of other businesses and technologies, which could divert management's attention and prove difficult to integrate with our existing business and technology. We continue to consider investments in and acquisitions of other businesses, technologies or products, to improve our market position, broaden our technological capabilities and expand our product offerings. For example, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and 44 new employees from the VXP Group of Gennum Corporation in February 2008 and the acquisition of Blue7 Communications, or Blue7, in February 2006. However, we may not be able to acquire, or successfully identify, companies, products or technologies that would enhance our business. Once we identify a strategic opportunity, the process to consummate a transaction could divert management's attention from the operation of our business causing our financial results to decline. If we are able to acquire companies, products or technologies, we could experience difficulties in integrating them. Integrating acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including: •potential disruption of our ongoing business and the diversion of management resources from other business concerns; •unexpected costs or incurring unknown liabilities; •difficulties relating to integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; •adverse effects on the existing customer relationships of acquired companies; and •adverse effects associated with entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience. If we are unable to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire, our operating results could be harmed. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: •changes in tax laws in the countries in which we operate or the interpretation of such tax laws; •changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets; 19 •increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; •changes in share-based compensation expense; •changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and •our ability to use net operating losses of acquired companies to the fullest extent. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If the recent worsening of credit market conditions continues or increases, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets experienced credit issues during the second half of fiscal 2007 and continuing into the first quarter of fiscal 2008, leading to liquidity issues and failed auctions in the auction rate securities market. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, the liquidity of our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Included in our marketable securities portfolio at February 2, 2008 were auction rate securities that we purchased for $43.9 million. These securities have failed to trade at recent auctions due to insufficient bids from buyers. If these auctions continue to fail and the credit ratings of these investments deteriorate, the fair value of these auction rate securities may decline and we may incur impairment charges in connection with these securities, which would negatively affect our reported earnings cash flow and financial condition. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: •market acceptance of our products; •the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; •the existence of opportunities for expansion; •access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel; and •the number of shares we repurchase under our share repurchase program. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain debt financing. We recently announced a share repurchase program under which our board of directors authorized us to repurchase up to 5,000,000 shares of our common stock. Although we are not obligated to repurchase any shares under this share repurchase program, to the extent we elect to repurchase shares, the amount of cash we use could limit our ability to execute our business plans and require us to raise additional capital in the future in order to fund any repurchases or for other purposes. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 20 We may face intellectual property claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and intellectual property rights. We believe that it may be necessary, from time to time, to initiate litigation against one or more third parties to preserve our intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and may receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties' proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events or claims could result in litigation. Any such litigation could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of certain products or expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation, and we may not be successful in such development or in obtaining such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, patent disputes in the electronics industry have often been settled through cross-licensing arrangements. Because we do not yet have a large portfolio of issued patents, we may not be able to settle an alleged patent infringement claim through a cross-licensing arrangement. We rely upon patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm our ability to compete and to generate revenue. Our ability to compete may be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information. As of February 2, 2008, we held 30 patents and these patents will expire within the next five to sixteen years. These patents cover the technology underlying our products. We have filed certain patent applications and are in the process of preparing others. We cannot assure you that any additional patents for which we have applied will be issued or that any issued patents will provide meaningful protection of our product innovations. Like other semiconductor companies, we rely primarily on trade secrets and technological know-how in the conduct of our business. We use measures such as confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. However, these methods of protecting our intellectual property may not be sufficient. Our business may become subject to seasonality, which may cause our revenue to fluctuate. Our business may become subject to seasonality as a result of our target markets. We sell a significant number of our SoCs into the consumer electronics market. Our customers who manufacture products for the consumer market typically experience seasonality in the sales of their products, which in turn may affect the timing and volume of orders for our SoCs. Although we have not experienced seasonality to date in sales of our products, due to the overall growth in demand for our SoCs, we may, in the future, experience lower sales in our second fiscal quarter and higher sales in our third fiscal quarter as a result of the seasonality of demand associated with the consumer electronics markets into which we sell our products. As a result, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards and, from time to time, has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors have caused, and could cause, substantial fluctuations in our net revenue and in our operating results. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of this industry to fully recover from downturns could harm our business. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results have varied and may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause our stock price to decline. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors and any of these factors could adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including: •new product introductions by us and our competitors; •changes in our pricing models and product sales mix; •unexpected reductions in unit sales and average selling prices, particularly if they occur precipitously; •expenses related to our remediation efforts and compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; •expenses related to implementing and maintaining a new enterprise resource management system and other information technologies; •the level of acceptance of our products by our customers and acceptance of our customers' products by their end user customers; 21 •shifts in demand for the technology embodied in our products and those of our competitors; •the loss of one or more significant customers; •the timing of, and potential unexpected delays in, our customer orders and product shipments; •inventory obsolescence; •write-downs of accounts receivable; •a significant increase in our effective tax rate in any particular period as a result of the exhaustion, disallowance or accelerated recognition of our net operating loss carryforwards or otherwise; •an interrupted or inadequate supply of semiconductor chips or other materials included in our products; •technical problems in the development, ramp up, and manufacturing of products, which could cause shipping delays; •availability of third-party manufacturing capacity for production of certain products; •the impact of potential economic instability in the United States and Asia-Pacific region; and •continuing impact and expenses related to our stock option review and its resolution. In addition, the market prices of securities of semiconductor and other technology companies have been volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, we and other companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been, and in the future we may be, the subject of securities class action litigation. Our stock price has demonstrated volatility, and continued volatility in the stock market may cause further fluctuations or decline in our stock price. The market for our common stock has been subject to significant volatility, which is expected to continue. For example, the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market ranged from a high of $73.00 on December 10, 2007 to a low of $35.00 on January 17, 2008, and more recently to a low of $20.04 on March 17, 2008. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors, such as the current shareholder derivative lawsuits against certain of our current and former officers and directors, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies such as ours in the semiconductor industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. While we are not aware of any such contemplated class action litigation against us, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. In addition, we and certain of our current and former officers and directors are subject to various shareholder derivative lawsuits. A description of these lawsuits can be found under the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Part I, Item 3. Although we recently reached an agreement to settle these shareholder derivative lawsuits, the agreement remains subject to final documentation and court approval. If this settlement is not finalized, we would be required to continue to litigate these matters. These lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely be, expensive and time consuming to investigate, defend and resolve. Such costs of investigation and defense, the diversion of our management’s attention and resources and any losses resulting from these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. 22 Provisions in our organizational documents, our rights agreement and California law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that our shareholders may consider favorable. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our Board of Directors without prior shareholder approval, commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power of your shares. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a rights plan that provides each share of our common stock with an associated right to purchase from us one one-thousandth share of Series D participating preferred stock at a purchase price of $58.00 in cash, subject to adjustment in the manner set forth in the rights agreement. The rights have anti-takeover effects, in that they would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire a significant interest in our company on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, provisions of California law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock by discouraging a hostile bid, or delaying or deterring a merger, acquisition or tender offer in which our shareholders could receive a premium for their shares or a proxy contest for control of our company or other changes in our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 