ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. The matters related to the review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. For more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see Part I, Item 3- “Legal Proceedings” as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this section. We have provided the results of our internal review and investigation of our stock option practices to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and in that regard we have responded to informal requests for documents and additional information. We intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC and any other governmental agency which may become involved in this matter. We cannot give any assurance regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, while we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we accounted for and reported, or not reported, the corresponding financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. Also, in September 2006, we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating that, as a result of the delayed filing of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 29, 2006 (the “Second Quarter Form 10-Q”), we were not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and were therefore subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market. In December 2006, we received an additional letter from NASDAQ of similar substance related to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 28, 2006 (the “Third Quarter Form 10-Q”). In January 2007, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel granted our request for continued listing, provided that we file a response with NASDAQ to specific requests for information from NASDAQ related to our stock option granting practices review as well as the Second Quarter Form 10-Q, the Third Quarter Form 10-Q and any required restatements with the SEC on or before March 14, 2007. In February 2007, we received a notice from the NASDAQ Listing and Hearings Review Council, which advised us that any delisting determination by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel has been stayed pending further review by the Review Council. We have been given until May 4, 2007 to submit additional information to assist the Review Council in their assessment of our listing status. On February 2, 2007, we filed with NASDAQ a response to specific requests for information from NASDAQ related to our stock option granting practices review. In addition, immediately before the filing of this Form 10-K, we filed the Second Quarter Form 10-Q and the Third Quarter Form 10-Q with the SEC. We consider that the filing of these materials has remedied our non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to NASDAQ’s affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its notification to us accordingly. However, if NASDAQ disagrees with our position or if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports or other actions that might result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully address the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or otherwise maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have had ongoing material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting since the fiscal period ended January 31, 2005, the first year in which we were required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In September 2006, we announced that our historical financial statements should no longer be relied upon as a result of our preliminary determination of an internal review relating to our practices in administering stock option grants. As a result, we have been unable to report in a timely manner our financial results for the past three quarterly periods as a result of a voluntary review of our stock option grant practices. For the period ended February 3, 2007, we concluded that we had material weaknesses which resulted in ineffective internal controls over financial reporting, as further described in Item 9A, Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm reached the same conclusion. Effective controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed and the market price of our common stock could decline. We have initiated corrective actions, which we believe will help remediate each of these material weaknesses. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will result in our ability to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If these actions are not successful in addressing these material weaknesses or if we identify additional material weaknesses in the future, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. In addition, if we cannot establish effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors and any of these factors could adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including but not limited to: • new product introductions by us and our competitors; • changes in our pricing models and product sales mix; • unexpected reductions in unit sales, average selling prices and gross margins, particularly if they occur precipitously; • expenses related to our remediation efforts and compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • expenses related to implementing and maintaining a new enterprise resource management system and other information technologies; • the level of acceptance of our products by our OEM customers, and acceptance of our OEM customers’ products by their end user customers; • shifts in demand for the technology embodied in our products and those of our competitors; • the loss of one or more significant customers; • the timing of, and potential unexpected delays in, our customer orders and product shipments; • inventory obsolescence; • write-downs of accounts receivable; 11 Table of Contents • an interrupted or inadequate supply of semiconductor chips or other materials included in our products; • technical problems in the development, ramp up, and manufacturing of products, which could cause shipping delays; • availability of third-party manufacturing capacity for production of certain products; • the impact of potential economic instability in the Asia-Pacific region; and • continuing impact and expenses related to our stock option review and its resolution. Our business is highly dependent on the expansion of young and rapidly evolving segments of the consumer electronics market. Our business is highly dependent on developing segments of the consumer electronics market, which market segments include IP video set-top boxes, connected media players, and high definition televisions. We expect the majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future to come from the sale of chipsets for use in emerging consumer applications. Our ability to sustain and increase revenues is in large part dependent on the continued growth of these young and rapidly evolving market segments, whose future is largely uncertain. Many factors could impede or interfere with the expansion of these consumer market segments, including consumer demand in these segments, general economic conditions, other competing consumer electronic products, delays in the deployment of telecommunications video services and insufficient interest in new technology innovations. In addition, even if these consumer market segments expand, manufacturers of products in these segments may not choose to utilize our products in their products, but rather the products of our competitors. Moreover, market acceptance of the products of manufacturers that do utilize our products may not occur as expected. In any such case, our business would likely be harmed. The average selling prices of our products have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenues and gross margins. Our markets are characterized by intense price competition. The willingness of customers to design our chips into their products depends to a significant extent upon our ability to sell our products at competitive prices. In the past, we have had to reduce our prices significantly to meet customer requirements. We expect the average selling prices of our products to decline significantly over the life of each product as the markets for our products mature, new technologies emerge, and competition increases. If we are unable to reduce our costs sufficiently to offset declines in product prices or are unable to introduce more advanced products with higher margins in a timely manner, we could see declines in our market share or gross margins. We depend on a limited number of significant customers, and any reduction, delay or cancellation of an order from these significant customers or the loss of any of these customers could cause our revenues to decline. In fiscal 2007, Freebox SA accounted for 20% of our revenues and Uniquest accounted for 17% of our revenues. Our dependence on a few major customers will likely continue. The reduction, delay or cancellations of orders from major customers or the loss of a major customer could cause our revenues to decline and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any difficulty in collection from key customers could harm our business. Our sales to OEM customers involve a number of risks, including price pressures, which could harm our revenues and cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Our ability to increase sales and achieve continued profitability depends substantially on our ability to maintain a high level of sales to our OEM customers. Our OEM customers are not under any obligation to purchase a minimum quantity of our products. Also, even if we achieve new design wins with OEM customers, these manufacturers may not purchase our products in substantial volumes to recoup our development costs. Sales to any particular OEM customer fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and are subject to severe 12 Table of Contents price pressures as a result of our competitors. Any reduction in sales to OEM customers could seriously harm our business. We expect that our sales to OEM customers will continue to experience significant fluctuations, which will cause our operating results to fluctuate as well. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. If we fail to compete effectively, our market share and revenues could decline. The markets in which we operate are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, continuously evolving customer requirements and declining average selling prices. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our market share and revenues could decline. We compete with large semiconductor manufacturers and designers. Most of our competitors have substantial experience and expertise in audio, video and multimedia technology and in producing and selling consumer products through retail distribution and OEM channels. These companies also have substantially greater engineering, marketing and financial resources than we have. Our competitors could form cooperative relationships that could present formidable competition to us. We cannot assure you that our technology will continue to achieve commercial success or that it will compete effectively against other interactive multimedia products, services and technologies that currently exist, are under development, or may be announced by competitors. We have a history of operating losses and we could sustain future losses. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be profitable and if we lose money, our business may not be financially viable. We have incurred significant operating losses in certain past fiscal periods, including in fiscal year 2006. In recent years, we made significant investments in our development efforts. We may not recognize the benefits of these investments. We were profitable for the fiscal year 2007. However, we may not continue to be profitable. We may incur operating losses in future quarterly periods or fiscal years, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or to meet them in a timely manner. If we fail to anticipate the market requirements or to develop new products or product enhancements to meet those needs, such failure could substantially decrease market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business and financial results. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, our new products or enhancements may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Any failure of our products to achieve market acceptance could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are a party to lawsuits, which are costly to investigate and defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages, any or all of which could harm our business and financial condition. We and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors are subject to various lawsuits. For example, the SEC has inquired regarding our stock option pricing practices, and we have been served with lawsuits related to the alleged backdating of stock options and other related matters, a description of which can be found below in Part I, Item 3—Legal Proceedings. There can be no assurance that these or any actions that have been or may be brought against us will be resolved in our favor. Regardless of whether they are resolved in our favor, these lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits to which we may 13 Table of Contents become a party will likely be, expensive and time consuming to investigate, defend and/or resolve. Such costs of investigation and defense, as well as any losses resulting from these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. If we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. Our ability to develop, market and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, finance and accounting, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the semiconductor industry, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell or support our products. If we fail to achieve initial design wins for our products, we may lose the opportunity for sales for a significant period of time to customers and be unable to recoup our investments in our products. We expend considerable resources in order to achieve design wins for our products, especially our new products and product enhancements. Once a customer designs a semiconductor into a product, it is likely to continue to use the same semiconductor or enhanced versions of that semiconductor from the same supplier across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning the product to incorporate a different semiconductor. If we fail to achieve an initial design win in a customer’s qualification process, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a number of its products and for a lengthy period of time. This may cause us to be unable to recoup our investments in our products, which would harm our business. Our sales cycle can be lengthy, which could result in uncertainty and delays in generating revenue. Because our products are based on constantly evolving technologies, we have experienced a lengthy sales cycle for some of our chipsets, particularly those designed for set-top box applications for the IPTV market. Our sales cycle typically ranges from nine to twelve months. We may experience a delay between the time we increase expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing efforts and inventory and the time we generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. In addition, because we do not have long-term commitments from our customers, we must repeat our sales process on a continual basis even for current customers looking to purchase a new product. As a result, our business could be harmed if a customer reduces or delays its orders, chooses not to release products incorporating our semiconductors or elects not to purchase a new product or product enhancements from us. 14 Table of Contents The timing of our customer orders and product shipments can adversely affect our operating results and stock price. Our quarterly revenues and operating results depend upon the volume and timing of customer orders received during a given quarter and the percentage of each order that we are able to ship and recognize as revenues during each quarter, each of which is extremely difficult to forecast. The majority of our orders in a given quarter historically have been shipped in the last months of that quarter. This trend is likely to continue, and any failure or delay in the closing of orders during the last part of a quarter would adversely affect our operating results. Further, to the extent we receive orders late in any given quarter, we may be unable to ship products to fill those orders during the same quarter in which we received the corresponding order, which would have an adverse impact on our operating results for that quarter. We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. With the current demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. Growth in our business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and to establish optimal component levels. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. We currently purchase finished wafers from a single source. The development of alternate sources for finished wafers could take at least several quarters and the qualification process could be difficult and costly. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. If, as a result, we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously impact present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business. In addition, the development, licensing or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. Failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. In the past, we have experienced production delays and other difficulties, and we could experience similar problems in the future. Our products might also contain defects that escape identification at the factory. This could result in unanticipated costs, cancellations, deferrals of purchase orders, or costly recall of products from customer sites. We are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. We depend primarily on independent contract manufacturers, each of whom is a third party manufacturer for numerous companies, to manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we should fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, a substantial portion of our manufacturing is performed in Asian countries and is 15 Table of Contents therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in these countries. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are required to expense equity compensation given to our employees, which has reduced our reported earnings, will significantly harm our operating results in future periods and may reduce our stock price and our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. We historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our shareholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted changes that require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We adopted this standard effective January 29, 2006. By causing us to record significantly increased compensation costs, such accounting changes have reduced, and will continue to reduce, our reported earnings, will significantly harm our operating results in future periods, and may require us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Moreover, if securities analysts, institutional investors and other investors adopt financial models that include stock option expense in their primary analysis of our financial results, our stock price could decline as a result of reliance on these models with higher expense calculations. Each of these results could materially and adversely affect our business. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations. We derive substantially all of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. As a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory and political conditions in foreign countries, including the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, acts of terrorism and continued unrest in many regions and other factors, which could have a material impact on our international revenues and operations. In particular, in some countries we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase the sales price in local currencies of our products in international markets. Overseas sales and purchases to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in any hedging activities to reduce our exposure to exchange rate risks. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or United States regulations applicable to us. Our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of these internal policies and procedures or United States regulations applicable to us. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Due to the global nature of our operations, economic or social conditions or changes in a particular country or region could adversely affect our sales or increase our costs and expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly to our OEM customers and indirectly through our distributors in countries throughout the world and also depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are primarily located outside of the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, political or social unrest, natural disasters, epidemic disease, war, or economic instability in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our 16 Table of Contents ability to import or export our products from various countries, service provider and government spending patterns affected by political considerations and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, costs, expenses, results of operations and financial condition. We may engage in investments in and acquisitions of other businesses and technologies, which could divert management’s attention and prove difficult to integrate with our existing business and technology. We continue to consider investments in and acquisitions of other businesses, technologies or products, to improve our market position, broaden our technological capabilities and expand our product offerings. For example, we completed the acquisition of Blue7 Communications in February 2006. However, we may not be able to acquire, or successfully identify, the companies, products or technologies that would enhance our business. Once we identify a strategic opportunity, the process to consummate a transaction could divert management’s attention from the operation of our business causing our financial results to decline. If we are able to acquire companies, products or technologies, we could experience difficulties in integrating them. Integrating acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including but not limited to: • potential disruption of our ongoing business; • unexpected costs or incurring unknown liabilities; • diversion of management resources from other business concerns; • inability to retain employees of the acquired businesses; • difficulties relating to integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • adverse effects on the existing customer relationships of acquired companies; • adverse effects associated with entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; and • acquired intangible assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company. If we are unable to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire, our operating results could be harmed. Changes in our tax rates will affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates will be favorably or unfavorably affected by the absolute amount and future geographic distribution of our pre-tax income, our ability to take advantage of the available tax planning strategies and our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. For example, at February 3, 2007, we had federal and state tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $56.3 million and $4.5 million, respectively. These net operating loss carryforwards may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our income taxes otherwise payable. Our use of the net operating loss carryforwards and credit carryforwards is limited by the annual limitations as described in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Our plans for continued international expansion may further limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards as our net income increases. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The outcomes of these examinations, if they occur, could harm our net income and financial condition. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. The timing and amount of 17 Table of Contents our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Financial accounting standards in the United States are constantly under review and may be changed from time to time. We are required to apply these changes when adopted. Once implemented, these changes could result in material fluctuations in our financial results of operations and the way in which such results of operations are reported. Similarly, we are subject to taxation in the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions. Rates of taxation, definitions of income, exclusions from income, and other tax policies are subject to change over time. Changes in tax laws in a jurisdiction in which we have reporting obligations could have a material impact on our results of operations. Our business is subject to seasonality, which is likely to cause our revenues to fluctuate. Our business is subject to seasonality as a result of our target markets. We sell a significant number of our semiconductors into the consumer market. Our customers who manufacture products for the consumer market experience seasonality in the sales of their products, which in turn may affect the timing and volume of orders for our semiconductors. Because the consumer market into which we sell our products is characterized by this seasonality, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards and, from time to time, has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors have caused and could cause substantial fluctuations in our net revenue and in our operating results. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of this industry to fully recover from downturns could harm our business. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results have varied and may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause our stock price to decline. We rely upon patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm our ability to compete and to generate revenues. Our ability to compete may be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information. We currently hold thirty patents and these patents will expire within the next 5 to 16 years. These patents cover the technology 18 Table of Contents underlying our products. We have filed certain patent applications and are in the process of preparing others. We cannot assure you that any additional patents for which we have applied will be issued or that any issued patents will provide meaningful protection of our product innovations. Like other multimedia companies, we rely primarily on trade secrets and technological know-how in the conduct of our business. We also rely, in part, on copyright law to protect our proprietary rights with respect to our REALmagic® technology. We use measures such as confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. These methods of protecting our intellectual property may not be sufficient. We may face intellectual property claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. The semiconductor and electronics industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation, and we may not be successful in such development or in obtaining such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, patent disputes in the electronics industry have often been settled through cross-licensing arrangements. Because we do not yet have a large portfolio of issued patents, we may not be able to settle an alleged patent infringement claim through a cross licensing arrangement. Our stock price has demonstrated volatility and overall declines, and continued volatility in the stock market may cause further fluctuations or decline in our stock price. The market for our common stock has been subject to significant volatility, which is expected to continue. For example, during fiscal 2007, the closing sale price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market ranged from a low of $8.24 on July 12, 2006 to a high of $27.69 on December 11, 2006. In addition, the stock market, in general, has experienced, and is currently experiencing, volatility that particularly affects the market prices of equity securities of many high technology companies, such as those in the electronics and semiconductor industries. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we fail to comply with or obtain waivers for covenants under our loan obligations, our financial condition could be harmed. We have two lines of credit with United Commercial Bank, expiring in August 2007, which allow for borrowings of up to an aggregate of $15.0 million. As of February 3, 2007, we had no outstanding indebtedness under these loans. During August 2005, we also entered into a 30-month term loan for $0.5 million, which was used to purchase equipment for research and development. As of February 3, 2007, we had $241,000 of outstanding indebtedness under this loan. We are subject to certain financial covenants under the lines of credit and the term loan. We have on occasion, including as of February 3, 2007, been in violation of some of the covenants and in all cases, we have obtained waivers releasing us from our obligations to meet those covenants as of previous dates. It is possible that we may need such a waiver for future non-compliance and we cannot assure you that our bank will grant these waivers. If we do not meet these covenants and cannot obtain waivers, the lender could accelerate payments of any amounts due under the lines of credit and the term loan. To the extent we had borrowed amounts under these lines of credit and term loan and were required to repay them on an accelerated basis, it could substantially weaken our financial condition. If we do not have sufficient funds available to make full payment on the lines of credit and the term loan when required, the bank could foreclose on our accounts receivable, inventories, general intangibles such as patents and trademarks, equipment and tangible assets that collateralize the notes, which would harm our business. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 