Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements that are not historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect the current belief, expectations, estimates, forecast or intent of our management and are subject to and involve certain risks and uncertainties. Many of these risks and uncertainties are outside of our control and are difficult for us to forecast or mitigate. In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in certain of our other Securities and Exchange Act Commission filings, the following risks and uncertainties, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by us or by any forward-looking statement contained herein. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this Annual Report and our other public filings. Our operating results may fluctuate in future periods, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly. We have failed to achieve our revenue and net income expectations for certain prior periods, and it is possible that we 19 Table of Contents will fail to achieve such expectations in the future. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, can cause fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results, including among others: • our judgments as to whether an arrangement includes multiple elements and if so, whether vendor specific objective evidence of fair value exists for those elements, which judgments impact the amount of product and service revenue recognized; • fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers, in part due to a changing global economic environment; • price and product competition in the telecommunications industry which can change rapidly due to technological innovation; • the success or failure of our strategic alliances and acquisitions; • the introduction and market acceptance of our and our competitors’ new products, services and technologies; • the timing of the deployment by our customers of new technologies and services, including VoIP; • changes in accounting rules, such as recently issued pronouncements regarding stock-based compensation (i.e., requiring the expensing of employee stock option grants) and tax accounting pronouncements; • changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions in the telecommunications industry; • fluctuations in demand for our products and the size, timing, terms and conditions of orders and shipments; • sudden or unanticipated shortages of components provided by our vendors; • the lengthy sales cycle of our signaling, switching solutions and communications software solutions products, especially with respect to our international customers, and the reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans for those products and associated revenue; • the progress and timing of the convergence of voice and data networks and other convergence-related risks described below; • the ability of carriers to utilize excess capacity of signaling infrastructure and related products in their networks; • the capital spending patterns of our customers, including deferrals or cancellations of purchases by customers; • the trend toward industry consolidation among our customers and our competitors; • our ability to achieve targeted cost and expense reductions; • manufacturing and customer lead times; • our dependence on wireless carriers for a significant percentage of our revenues; • unanticipated delays or problems in developing or releasing new products or services; • variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold; • the geographic mix of our revenues and the associated impact on margins; • the mix of our product sales across product lines (i.e., between our higher margin NSG products and lower margin SSG products), which can have significant impact on our gross margins; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; 20 Table of Contents • actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; • the ability of our customers to obtain financing or to otherwise fund capital expenditures; • the timing and level of our research and development expenditures and other expenditures; • the expansion of our marketing and support operations, both domestically and internationally; • changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors; • worldwide economic or political instability; and • failure of certain customers to successfully and timely reorganize their operations, including emerging from bankruptcy. Our product sales in any quarter depend largely on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. A significant portion of our product shipments in each quarter occurs at or near the end of the quarter. Since individual orders can represent a meaningful percentage of our revenues and net income in any quarter, the deferral or cancellation of or failure to ship an entire order in a quarter can result in a revenue and net income shortfall that causes us to fail to meet securities analysts’ expectations or our business plan for that period. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs in any quarter to adequately compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating results for that quarter. The factors described above are difficult to forecast and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may experience a shortfall in revenues or an increase in operating expenses in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. As a consequence, operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. Economic conditions worldwide have contributed to slowdowns in the telecommunications industry and may impact our business resulting in: • reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on capital expenditures by our customers; • increased price competition for our products, • risk of excess and obsolete inventories; and • higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue. Recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, including terrorist activities and military actions, particularly the continuing tension in and around Iraq, and changes in energy, natural resources and precious metal costs may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. If the economic and market conditions in the United States or internationally deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We expect our margins to vary over time, and our recent level of gross margins and operating margins may not be sustainable. Our recent level of operating margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially China; • changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group; • an increase in revenues from sales of our Switching Solutions Group products (which typically carry lower margins than sales of our Network Signaling Group products) as a percentage of total revenues; • introduction of new products; • our ability to reduce and control production costs; • entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures; • sales discounts; • increases in material or labor costs; • excess inventory and inventory holding costs; • obsolescence charges; • changes in shipment volume; • reductions in cost savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand; • changes in distribution channels; • losses on customer contracts; • increased warranty costs; and • our ability to execute our strategy and operating plans. Changes in service margins may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between extended warranty services and advanced services, as well as the timing of extended warranty contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods. The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive, which could adversely affect our revenue and net income growth. For information regarding our competition and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 of this report. We have limited product offerings, and our revenues may suffer if demand for any of our products declines or fails to develop as we expect, if we are not able to develop and market additional and enhanced product offerings or if we consummate the sale of our IEX Contact Center Group. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of our Network Signaling Group’s products. In each of 2005, 2004 and 2003, our EAGLE products and related services generated over 50% of our revenues, and we expect that these products and services and our other products of our Network Signaling Group will continue to account for a majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for these products, such as competition, technological change or a slower than anticipated rate of development or deployment of new products, features and technologies, could cause a significant decrease in our revenues and profitability. Continued and widespread market acceptance of these 22 Table of Contents products is therefore critical to our future success. Moreover, our future financial performance will depend in significant part on the successful and timely development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our EAGLE product line as well as other Network Signaling Group products and Switching Solutions Group products. Introducing new and enhanced products such as these requires a significant commitment to research and development that may not result in success. There are no assurances that we will continue to be successful in developing and marketing our Network Signaling Group, Switching Solutions Group, Communications Software Solutions Group or IEX Contact Center Group products and related services. Our revenues and operating income will also decline if our previously disclosed sale of our IEX Contact Center Group is consummated. If wireless carriers do not continue to grow and to buy our Network Signaling Group products and services, our network signaling related business would be harmed. The success of our Network Signaling Group’s business will depend in large part on the continued growth of wireless network operators and their purchases of our products and services. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the sale of our Network Signaling Group’s products and services to wireless network operators. In each of 2005, 2004 and 2003, sales to the wireless market accounted for more than 50% of our Network Signaling Group’s revenues. We expect that our sales of Network Signaling Group’s products and services to wireless companies will continue to account for a substantial majority of our Network Signaling Group’s revenues for the foreseeable future. The continued growth of the domestic and international wireless markets is subject to a number of risks that could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, including: • a downturn in the domestic or global economy; • a slowdown in capital spending by wireless network operators; • adverse changes in the debt and equity markets and in the ability of wireless carriers to obtain financing on favorable terms; • delays or scaling back of plans for the deployment by wireless network operators of new wireless broadband technologies and applications; and • slowing growth of wireless network subscribers, minutes of use or adoption of new services. Consequently, there can be no assurances that the wireless network carriers will continue to purchase our Network Signaling products or services for the build-out or expansion of their networks. Our business is subject to risks related to the potential convergence of voice and data networks. The market for our products is evolving. Currently, voice conversations are carried primarily over circuit switched networks. Another type of network, packet switched networks, carries primarily data. Circuit and packet networks use fundamentally different technologies. Although we expect a substantial portion of any increases in our future sales of Switching Solutions Group products to result from the interconnection, or convergence, of circuit and packet networks, we cannot accurately predict when such convergence will occur or whether it will fully occur. Therefore, this convergence presents several significant and related risks to our business. If the convergence of circuit and packet networks does not fully occur or takes longer than anticipated, sales of our network infrastructure products, and our profitability, would be adversely affected. Any factor that might prevent or slow the convergence of circuit and packet networks could materially and adversely affect growth opportunities for our business. Such factors include: • the failure to solve or difficulty in solving certain technical obstacles to the transmission of voice conversations over a packet network; • delays in the formulation of standards for the transmission of voice conversations over a packet network; and • the imposition on packet network operators of access fees, which are not currently charged. 23 Table of Contents It may be difficult or impossible to solve certain technical obstacles to the transmission of voice conversations over a packet network with the same quality and reliability of a circuit network. For example, delays or gaps in the timing of a message are typically not as critical to data transmissions as they are to voice conversations. The nature of packet switching makes it difficult to prevent such delays or gaps as well as to repair such defects in a way that does not degrade the quality of a voice conversation. If this problem is not solved, the convergence of circuit and packet networks may never fully occur or may occur at a much slower rate than we anticipate. It may also be difficult or time-consuming for the industry to agree to standards incorporating any one solution addressing any such technical issues, if such a solution exists. Without uniform standards, substantial convergence of circuit and packet networks may not occur or may take longer than anticipated. We cannot accurately predict when these technical problems will be solved, when uniform standards will be agreed upon or when market acceptance of such products and services will occur. Convergence may, however, take much longer than we expect or, as noted above, not fully occur at all. Moreover, uncertainty regarding the technology or standards to be employed in converged networks may cause carriers to delay their purchasing plans. Finally, the imposition of access fees on packet networks might slow the convergence of circuit and packet networks. Today, federal regulation requires an operator of a long distance circuit network to pay an access fee to the local phone company serving the recipient of a long distance call. Packet network operators do not currently pay such access fees. In the future, access fees may be imposed on carriers using packet networks to transmit voice calls. These access fees might also be imposed on the termination of “pure” data messages by operators of packet networks. The imposition of these access fees would reduce the economic advantages of using packet networks for voice and other transmissions, which may slow the convergence of circuit and packet networks. The restatement of our consolidated financial statements and related events could have a material adverse effect on us. As discussed in Note 2 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have restated our consolidated financial statements to correct certain errors in our prior period financial statements. These errors principally related to (i) our application of Statement of Position 97-2 “Software Revenue Recognition” (“SOP 97-2”), (ii) the misclassification of costs, specifically the classification of certain customer service costs as costs of sales, in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation S-X and (iii) our accounting, presentation and disclosure of certain financial statement items such as deferred income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 “Accounting for Income Taxes” and certain prior period purchase accounting entries. We have corrected these errors through a restatement in this Annual Report of our previously issued financial statements for (i) the year ended December 31, 2003, (ii) the year ended December 31, 2004 and the unaudited quarterly financial data for each of the quarters therein, and (iii) the unaudited quarterly financial data for each of the quarters in the nine months ended September 30, 2005 (the “Restatement”). The need for the Restatement resulted in delays in the filing of this Annual Report and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. For more information on the Restatement, see (i) Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, (ii) Item 9A — Controls and Procedures and (iii) Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of the Restatement, we have become subject to the following risks. Each of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. • We could be subject to civil litigation, including class action shareholder actions, which if decided against us, could require us to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties. • Negative publicity relating to the Restatement may adversely affect our business and the market price of our publicly traded securities. 24 Table of Contents • The delayed filing of this Annual Report caused us to be in violation of (i) certain covenants under our credit facility and (ii) the indenture related to our 2.25% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes due 2008. We received an extension until June 30, 2006 for the delivery of our audited 2005 financial statements and unaudited financial information for the first quarter of 2006 required under our credit facility from the lender under that facility. With respect to our 2.25% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes due 2008, had we been unable to file this Annual Report by May 31, 2006, an Event of Default would have occurred, and either the Trustee or the holders of 25% in aggregate principal of the notes could then have declared the notes to be currently due and payable. As a result of the delay in filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 by the close of business on May 25, 2006, we were not in compliance with our obligation to deliver our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to the Trustee under the indenture governing the notes. As such, it is possible that the Trustee or the holders of the notes may seek to accelerate the repayment of that debt if they give us a notice of default after May 25, 2006, and the default is not cured within 60 days thereafter. In addition, it is possible that we will not have completed our financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 by June 30, 2006, and that the lender under our credit facility will not grant us a further extension of the deadline for delivering those financial statements. • We have identified a material weakness related to our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective as of December 31, 2005, which has its own risks as discussed below. • Should we be unable to file our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006 by July 17, 2006, the extended deadline provided by the Nasdaq, the Nasdaq could delist Tekelec’s common shares. • If our Common Stock is delisted as a result of any failure to file our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006 by Nasdaq’s extended deadline of July 17, 2006, then any holder of our 2.25% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes due 2008 may require us to redeem the holder’s notes and we will also be in default under our credit facility. • Due to the negative publicity with respect to the Restatement and the associated uncertainty in the equity markets, we may be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives. • Management’s focus on achieving our business objectives has and may continue to be diverted to addressing (i) the Restatement effort, (ii) customers’, employees’, investors’ and regulators’ questions and concerns regarding the Restatement, (iii) improvements in Tekelec’s public image, which may have been negatively impacted by the Restatement, with its customers and in the financial markets, and (iv) any subsequent litigation that may result from the Restatement. • The SEC may review the Restatement and require further amendment of our public filings. • We have incurred and may continue to incur significant expenses and costs associated with the Restatement and each of the above items. We have identified a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, which, if not remediated effectively, could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our Common Stock and otherwise seriously harm our business. In connection with the documentation, testing and assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the rules promulgated by the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 308 of Regulation S-K, management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting had a material weakness as of December 31, 2005. Please refer to Item 9A of this Annual Report for further discussion of this material weakness. We have taken certain actions to begin to address this material weakness. Our inability to remediate such material weakness promptly and effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as impair our ability to meet our quarterly and annual SEC reporting requirements in a timely manner. These effects could in turn adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock. Prior to the remediation 25 Table of Contents of this material weakness, there remains risk that the transitional controls on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective, which could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require a further restatement of our financial statements. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, such controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. Our growth is dependent on a number of factors, including market growth, our ability to enhance existing products, our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis and market acceptance of our existing and new products. Our growth strategy includes acquiring new products and technologies through acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures. We have in the past and may in the future grow through the acquisition of companies, products or technologies. During the last three years, we have engaged in a number of acquisitions, including our acquisitions of Santera, Taqua, Steleus, VocalData and iptelorg. Acquisitions are inherently risky and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We may not realize the expected benefits of an acquisition. In addition, acquisitions may also lead to potential write-downs, restructuring, or other one-time charges due to unforeseen business developments, which charges may adversely affect our earnings. For example, at the time of our acquisition of Taqua, we, along with several of our competitors, expected the market for small switch service providers to grow rapidly in the coming years. We acquired Taqua in 2004 in order to expand our next-generation switching product line to address this market. This market to date has failed to meet the growth projections estimated by us and, as a result, this product line has consistently underperformed against expectations. As a result of a significant shortfall in orders for these products compared with expectations, in the fourth quarter of 2005, we reassessed our forecast of Taqua’s future revenues and cash flows and concluded that an impairment existed. Therefore, we recorded charges to write-off a total of approximately $49.9 million of impaired purchased technology and goodwill that was originally recorded in connection with our acquisition of Taqua in 2004. We expect to continue to review opportunities to acquire other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we make any further acquisitions, we may issue stock that would dilute our existing shareholders’ percentage ownership or our earnings per share, incur substantial debt or assume contingent or unknown liabilities. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • problems or delays integrating or assimilating the acquired operations, technologies or products; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • disruption of our on-going business and distraction of our management and employees due to integration issues; • inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; • our relationships with employees, customers, partners or third-party providers of technology or products could be impaired; 26 Table of Contents • the due diligence processes may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; • we may incur significant exit charges if the products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of the acquired organization’s or our own key employees. Ultimately, if we do not successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses in a timely manner, or at all, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming problems in connection with our past or future acquisitions, and our inability to do so could significantly harm our assets acquired in such acquisitions, revenues and results of operations. We may incur future restructuring charges, which may adversely impact our operations. During 2004 and 2005, we undertook a series of restructurings of our operations involving, among other things, the reduction of our workforce, the relocation of our corporate headquarters and the consolidation of certain of our manufacturing facilities (the “Restructurings”). As part of the Restructurings, we ceased to use certain of our leased facilities. If we consolidate additional facilities in the future, we may incur additional restructuring and related expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We also cannot assure you that we will not reduce or otherwise adjust our workforce again in connection with future restructurings and incur substantial costs in connection with such restructurings. In addition, employees, whether or not directly affected by the restructuring, may seek future employment with our business partners, customers or competitors. We cannot assure you that the confidential nature of certain proprietary information will not be compromised in the course of such future employment. Further, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We may have difficulty attracting such personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce reductions. If we do not successfully manage the size of our operations, our profitability may be negatively impacted. If we fail to manage the size of our operations effectively, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In the past three years, our business has grown rapidly as a result of strategic acquisitions and other factors. This growth in our business has placed a significant strain on our management systems and resources. As part of integrating these acquisitions into our operations, we identified certain cost synergies, primarily facility consolidations and headcount reductions, in order to positively affect future operating income. As a result of these decisions, management completed a series of Restructurings, as described more fully in Note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Restructurings have particular risks, many of which are discussed above under “We may incur future restructuring charges, which may adversely impact our operations.” In addition, as our operations continue to grow, we may need to implement new systems or upgrade current systems. The failure to successfully implement such new or improved systems could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The majority of our expenses are personnel-related costs such as employee compensation and benefits, along with the cost of the infrastructure (occupancy and equipment) to support our employee base. The failure to adjust our employee base to the appropriate level to support our revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, expanding the distribution of our products may place new and increased demands on our direct sales force, professional services staff, and technical and sales support staff. Although we currently believe that we invest sufficient resources in our direct sales force, professional services staff, and our technical and sales support staff, there are only a limited number of qualified personnel in these areas. Our ability to achieve expanded distribution and revenue growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success in recruiting and training sufficient direct sales, professional 27 Table of Contents services, and technical and sales support personnel. If we are not able to expand our direct sales force, professional services staff, and technical and sales support staff as necessary to support our operations, our business and operations could be harmed. Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain employees, and a modification to our equity compensation strategy or recent changes in accounting for equity compensation could adversely affect our earnings. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States are subject to interpretation and/or promulgation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the implementation of a new accounting principle. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we accounted for stock options under APB No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” and interpretations thereof (collectively referred to as “APB 25”) and, accordingly, we recorded compensation expense related to stock options if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price of the stock option on the date of grant. On December 15, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123(R), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”), under which we are required to expense stock options and other forms of equity incentives in our statement of operations no later than January 1, 2006. SFAS 123R applies to all outstanding stock options and other forms of equity incentives that are not vested at January 1, 2006 and grants of new stock options and other forms of equity incentives made subsequent to that date. The adoption of SFAS 123R will cause our reported stock compensation cost to materially increase beginning in our first quarter of 2006 and will have a significant impact on our results of operations. We are still evaluating the impact of SFAS 123R on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We currently estimate, however, that the adoption of SFAS 123R could result in a reduction of as much as $23 million in our annual after tax earnings for 2006. This is a preliminary estimate of the impact and is based on the expense associated with stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2005 (including stock-based compensation under our employee stock purchase plan) and a preliminary estimate of stock-based compensation expected to be issued during the year. The actual impact to our earnings in 2006 could differ materially from our current estimate. We have historically used stock options and other forms of equity compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. The changing regulatory landscape could make it more difficult and expensive for us to grant stock options to employees in the future. In light of these changes, we have modified our equity compensation strategy to emphasize equity incentives other than stock options, including increased use of certain restricted stock units. We may in the future consider stock incentives that contain performance-related features. If employees believe that the incentives that they would receive under a modified strategy are less attractive, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees. In addition, the use of alternative equity incentives may increase our compensation expense and may negatively impact our earnings. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity instruments to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, further change our equity compensation strategy or find it increasingly difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our products do not satisfy customer demand for performance or price, our customers could purchase products from our competitors. The telecommunications equipment industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and we expect that the level of competition on pricing and product offerings will continue to be intense. If we are not able to 28 Table of Contents compete successfully against our current and future competitors, our current and potential customers may choose to purchase similar products offered by our competitors, which would negatively affect our revenues. We face formidable competition from a number of companies offering a variety of network signaling, next-generation switching, monitoring and contact center products. The markets for our products are subject to rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and regulatory developments. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies as well as many smaller established and emerging technology companies. We compete principally on the basis of: • product performance and functionality; • product quality and reliability; • customer service and support; and • price. Many of our competitors have substantially broader product portfolios and greater financial and technological resources, product development, marketing, distribution and support capabilities, name recognition, established relationships with telecommunications service providers and other resources than we have. In addition, new competitors may enter our markets as a result of shifts in technology, and these competitors may include entrants from the telecommunications, computer software, computer services, data networking and semiconductor industries. We anticipate that competition will continue to intensify with the anticipated convergence of voice and data networks. We may not be able to compete effectively against existing or future competitors or to maintain or capture meaningful market share, and our business could be harmed if our competitors’ products and services provide higher performance, offer additional features and functionality or are more reliable or less expensive than our products. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or take other actions to differentiate our products, which could adversely affect our operating results. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our operating results. Historically, a limited number of customers have accounted for a significant percentage of our quarterly and annual network signaling revenues. Less than 10% of our customers accounted for approximately 50% of our revenues in each of 2005, 2004 and 2003. We anticipate that our operating results in any given period will continue to depend to a significant extent upon revenues from a small number of customers. In 2005, Alcatel represented approximately 17% of our revenues and in 2005 and 2004, Cingular, including our business with AT&T prior to the merger of Cingular and AT&T Wireless, represented approximately 17% and 12%, respectively, of our annual revenues. Reductions, delays or cancellations of orders from one or more of our significant customers, or the loss of one or more of our significant customers in any period could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the telecommunications industry has recently experienced a consolidation of both U.S. and non-U.S. companies. We also anticipate that the mix of our customers in each fiscal period will continue to vary. In order to increase our revenues, we will need to attract additional significant customers on an ongoing basis. Our failure to attract a sufficient number of such customers during a particular period could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flow. If we fail to develop or introduce new products in a timely fashion, our business will suffer. If we fail to develop or introduce on a timely basis new products or product enhancements or features that achieve market acceptance, our business will suffer. Rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, short product life cycles, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards characterize the markets for our network signaling and next-generation switching products. Our success will depend to a significant extent upon our ability to accurately anticipate the evolution of new products, technologies and market trends and to enhance our existing products. It will also depend on our ability to timely develop and introduce innovative new products and enhancements that gain market acceptance. Finally, sales of our network signaling and next-generation switching products depend in part on 29 Table of Contents the continuing development and deployment of emerging standards and our ability to offer new products and services that comply with these standards. We may not be successful in forecasting future customer requirements or in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products on a timely or cost-effective basis. Moreover, we may encounter technical problems in connection with our product development that could result in the delayed introduction of new products or product enhancements, the cancellation of customer orders or delays in fulfilling customer orders, which could result in penalties to us. We may also focus on technologies that do not function as expected or are not widely adopted. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our products noncompetitive or obsolete and result in a significant reduction in orders from our customers. Our products are complex and may have errors that are not detected until deployment, and litigation related to warranty and product liability claims could be expensive and could negatively affect our reputation and profitability. We may be exposed to warranty, breach of contract, product liability, fraud and other claims if our products fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results in property damage or bodily injury. Products as highly complex as ours may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as new versions are released, and those defects or errors may not be detected until deployment or long after a product has been deployed. Such defects or errors, particularly those that result in service interruptions or a failure of telecommunications networks or our signaling or switching products, could harm our customer relationships, business and reputation, and result in material warranty or product liability losses and there can be no assurances that our products will not have defects or errors. A warranty or product liability claim brought against us could result in costly, protracted, highly disruptive and time consuming litigation, which would harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to claims arising from our failure to properly service or maintain our products or to adequately remedy defects in our products once such defects have been detected. Although our agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential warranty and product liability claims, it is possible that these limitations may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions, particularly since we have significant international sales. Although we maintain product liability insurance and a warranty reserve, it may not be sufficient to cover all claims to which we may be subject. The successful assertion against us of one or a series of large uninsured claims would harm our business. Our sale and support of products entail the risk of these types of claims and subject us to such claims in the future. Our relationships with strategic partners and distributors and other resellers are important to our future growth. We believe that our ability to compete successfully against other network signaling and next-generation switching product manufacturers depends in part on distribution and marketing relationships with leading communications equipment suppliers. If we cannot successfully enter these types of relationships on favorable terms to us or maintain these relationships, our business may suffer. In addition, we expect to increasingly rely on the deployment of our products with those of other manufacturers, systems integrators and resellers, both domestically and internationally. To the extent our products are so incorporated, we depend on the timely and successful development of those other products. Our business is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. We are subject to rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and Nasdaq, have during the past few years issued new requirements and regulations and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and 30 Table of Contents administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of SOX and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required, and continues to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. Our compliance with telecommunications regulations and standards may be time consuming, difficult and costly, and if we fail to comply, our product sales would decrease. In order to maintain market acceptance, our products must continue to meet a significant number of regulations and standards. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations defined by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories as well as standards established by Telcordia (formerly Bell Telecommunications Research). Internationally, our products must comply with standards established by telecommunications authorities in various countries as well as with recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union. As these standards evolve and if new standards are implemented, we will be required to modify our products or develop and support new versions of our products, and this will increase our costs. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving industry standards could prevent or delay introduction of our products, which could harm our business. In order to penetrate our target markets, it is important that we ensure the interoperability of our products with the operations, administration, maintenance and provisioning systems used by our customers. To ensure this interoperability, we periodically submit our products to technical audits. Our failure or delay in obtaining favorable technical audit results could adversely affect our ability to sell products to some segments of the communications market. Government regulatory policies are likely to continue to have a major impact on the pricing of existing as well as new public network services and, therefore, are expected to affect demand for such services and the communications products, including our products, which support such services. Tariff rates, whether determined autonomously by carriers or in response to regulatory directives, may affect cost effectiveness of deploying public network services. Tariff policies are under continuous review and are subject to change. User uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products, including our products. In addition, the convergence of circuit and packet networks could be subject to governmental regulation. Regulatory initiatives in this area could adversely affect our business. Changes in telecommunications regulation and tariffs could harm our prospects and future sales. Changes in telecommunications requirements in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various FCC requirements and regulations. In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents We have significant international sales, and international markets have inherent risks. International sales are subject to inherent risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and duties, changes in a country’s political or economic conditions including military conflicts or political or social unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and distributors, longer accounts receivable cycles, differing technology standards and customer requirements, greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, trade regulations, nationalization of business, economic instability and potentially adverse tax consequences. Doing business overseas is generally more costly than doing business in the United States. Internationally, we sell our products through our direct sales force, sales agents and distribution relationships. We also sell direct through our wholly owned subsidiaries in Brazil, Canada, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan and United Kingdom and our sales offices in China, the Netherlands and the Russian Federation. Total international revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $146.8 million, $96.2 million and $44.8 million, respectively, representing 27%, 26% and 18% of our total revenues, respectively. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in future periods. Our international sales and other activities also subject us to the risks relating to price controls, export regulations, restrictions on foreign currencies and trade barriers imposed by foreign countries, exchange rate fluctuations and exchange controls, changes in local economics, changes in laws and regulations, unsettled potential conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. For example, exchange rate fluctuations on foreign currency transactions and translations arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in our business and operating results. Fluctuations in exchange rates could also affect demand for our products. If, for any reason, exchange or price controls or other restrictions in foreign countries are imposed, our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, any inability to obtain local regulatory approvals in foreign markets on a timely basis could harm our business. In particular, if we are not able to manage our continuing expansion into Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America, our business may suffer. In addition, we have limited operations in Asia Pacific and Latin America, and we may have difficulty establishing relationships, building name recognition or penetrating these markets, which could adversely affect our performance in these markets. Moreover, telecommunications networks outside of the United States generally have a different structure, and our products may not be completely compatible with this different structure. As a result, our products may not be competitive with those of our competitors. Access to foreign markets is often difficult due to the established relationships between a government-owned or controlled communications operating company and its traditional suppliers of communications equipment. These foreign communications networks are in many cases owned or strictly regulated by government. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully penetrate these markets, particularly for our switching products. Failure to retain and recruit key personnel could harm our ability to meet key objectives. We depend to a significant extent upon the continuing services and contributions of our senior management team and other key employees, particularly Franco Plastina, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and William Everett, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We generally do not have long-term employment agreements or other arrangements with our employees that would prevent them from leaving Tekelec. Our success also has depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense. Equity compensation awards including stock option grants are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us. Volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our compensation program, including our equity based incentive programs, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom have been granted stock options or other equity based compensation. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. 32 Table of Contents In recent years, we have had members of our senior management announce their departure from our company. We replace these individuals with either internal candidates or individuals from outside our organization. While our internal candidates understand our business model, they must learn a new position and take on additional or new responsibilities, which could take time and result in the disruption to our on-going operations. To integrate into our company, new senior personnel must spend a significant amount of time learning our business model and management systems, in addition to performing their regular duties. Accordingly, until new senior personnel become familiar with our business model and systems, their integration may result in some disruption to our on-going operations. Additionally, we may need to hire additional personnel in general or to replace internal candidates who have been promoted and as a result, we may experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. We may also incur significant severance costs in relation to the departure of members of our senior management. Adverse resolution of litigation may harm our operating results or financial condition. We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part I of this report. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Further, our future effective tax rates may be impacted as a result of our adoption of SFAS 123R as no tax benefit is recorded for stock-based compensation expense related to incentive stock options or ISOs, except where shares acquired through the exercise of an ISO are disposed of prior to meeting the statutory holding period requirements under the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In July 2005, the FASB issued an Exposure Draft of a proposed Interpretation “Accounting for Uncertain Tax Positions — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.” The proposed interpretation proposes changes to the current accounting for uncertain tax positions. While we cannot predict with certainty the rules in the final interpretation, there is risk that the final interpretation could result in a cumulative effect charge to earnings upon adoption, increases in future effective tax rates, and/or increases in future interperiod effective tax rate volatility. Problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may meet with resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the U.S. and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Similarly, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations 33 Table of Contents of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates and, therefore, impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Part of this portfolio includes equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility. If there is an economic slowdown which adversely affects the public equities market, we may recognize in earnings the decline in fair value of our publicly traded equity investments below the cost basis when the decline is judged to be other-than-temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” contained in Part II of this Annual Report. Our investment in a private company is subject to risk of loss of investment capital. This investment is inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products it has under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We may not be able to recover our $7.3 million investment in this company. There can be no assurances that our measures to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights are adequate, and if we fail to protect those rights, our business would be harmed. Our success depends to a significant degree on our proprietary technology and other intellectual property. Although we regard our technology as proprietary, we have sought only limited patent protection. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These measures, however, afford only limited protection and may not provide us with any competitive advantage or prevent third parties from misappropriating our technology or other intellectual property. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, which makes misappropriation of our technology and other intellectual property more likely. It is possible that others will independently develop similar products or design around our patents and other proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or if we fail to detect misappropriation of our proprietary rights, our ability to effectively compete could be seriously impaired which would limit our future revenues and harm our prospects. Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, and our competitors and others may challenge the validity or scope of our patent or trademark registration applications. If we do not receive the patents or trademark registrations we seek, or if other problems arise with our intellectual property, our competitiveness could be significantly impaired and our business, operations and prospects may suffer. In addition, from time to time we face challenges to the validity or enforceability of our proprietary rights and litigation may be necessary to enforce and protect our rights, to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights and the rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation would be expensive and time consuming, would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from business operations and would likely harm our business and operating results. Because we are subject to third parties’ claims that we are infringing their intellectual property and may become subject to additional such claims in the future, we may be prevented from selling certain products and we may incur significant expenses in resolving these claims. We receive from time to time claims of infringement from third parties or we otherwise become aware of relevant patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties that may lead to disputes and litigation. Any claims made against us regarding patents or other intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming to resolve or defend and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any such claims would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. A 34 Table of Contents claim by a third party may require us to modify or cease marketing our products, develop new technologies or products, enter into costly royalty or license agreements with respect to the proprietary rights that are the subject of the infringement claim or refund to our customers all or a portion of the amounts they have paid for infringing products. If such claims are asserted, there can be no assurances that we would prevail, successfully modify our products or be able to acquire any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may be requested to defend and indemnify certain of our customers and resellers against claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others. We may also be subject to potentially significant damages or injunctions against the sale of certain products or use of certain technologies, and there can be no assurances that any such litigation can be avoided or successfully concluded. There can be no assurances that our technologies or products do not infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties or that such parties will not initiate infringement actions against us. If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements or customer demand or fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, we could incur additional costs or be unable to timely fulfill our customer commitments which would adversely affect our business and results of operations and harm our customer relationships. We outsource a substantial portion of our manufacturing and repair service operations to independent contract manufacturers and other third parties. Our contract manufacturers typically manufacture our products based on rolling forecasts of our product needs that we provide to them on a regular basis. The contract manufacturers are responsible for procuring components necessary to build our products based on our rolling forecasts, build and assemble the products, test the products in accordance with our specifications and then ship the products to us. We configure the products to our customer requirements, conduct final testing and then ship the products to our customers. Although we currently partner with multiple major contract manufacturers, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter problems as we become increasingly dependent on contract manufacturers to provide these manufacturing services. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements or forecast customer demand, we may incur additional costs and our margins and financial results could be adversely affected. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may experience an oversupply of components and assess us charges for excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our margins. If we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate inventory or components, which could interrupt manufacturing and result in higher manufacturing costs, shipment delays, damage customer relationships and/or result in our payment of penalties to our customers. In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers or other service providers, or if one or more of them should not fully comply with their contractual obligations or should experience delays, disruptions, component procurement problems or quality control problems, then our ability to ship products to our customers or otherwise fulfill our contractual obligations to our customers could be delayed or impaired which would adversely affect our business, financial results and customer relationships. We rely on third parties to provide many of our subsystems and components. If we are unable to obtain our subsystems and components from these parties at reasonable prices or on a timely basis, we may not be able to obtain substitute subsystems or components on terms that are as favorable. Certain of our products contain subsystems or components acquired from third parties. These products are often available only from a limited number of manufacturers. In the event that a product becomes obsolete or otherwise unavailable from a current third party vendor, second sourcing would be required. This sourcing may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and could delay customer deliveries, resulting in penalties and/or other adverse impacts on our business. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in certain markets. We are vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the telecommunications industry and to adverse changes in our customers’ businesses and financial condition. The recent slowdown in the economy in general 35 Table of Contents and in the telecommunications market in particular has weakened the financial condition of many of our customers, which has adversely affected their creditworthiness. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks and avoiding credit losses. We also continue to monitor credit exposure from weakened financial conditions in certain geographic regions, and the impact that such conditions may have on the worldwide economy. We have periodically experienced losses due to customers’ failing to meet their obligations. Although these losses have not been significant, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters. Our operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. A number of our facilities and those of our suppliers, our contract manufacturers, and our customers are located in areas that have been affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods or hurricanes in the past. A significant natural disaster could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are predominantly self-insured for losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other natural or manmade disasters. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our Common Stock has fluctuated substantially in recent years. The trading price may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to (i) variations in quarterly operating results; (ii) the gain or loss of significant orders; (iii) changes in earnings estimates by analysts; (iv) changes in our revenue and/or earnings guidance as announced in our earnings calls; (v) announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; (vi) changes in domestic and international economic, political and business conditions; (vii) general conditions in the telecommunication industry; (viii) the recent lack of public confidence in corporate governance and accounting practices; and (ix) other events or factors such as our Restatement. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 