ITEM 1A . RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements in a timely manner that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenue will suffer. We may not be able to accurately anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or to meet them in a timely manner. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; • accurately design new SoC products; • timely complete and introduce new product designs; • timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the equipment into which our products will be incorporated; • ensure that our subcontractors have sufficient foundry, assembly and test capacity and packaging materials and achieve acceptable manufacturing yields; • shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and • gain market acceptance of our products and our customers' products. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or to develop new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a cost-effective and timely manner, it could substantially decrease market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and we may be unable to attract new customers or retain our existing customers, which would significantly harm our business and financial results. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, our new products or enhancements may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Any failure of our products to achieve market acceptance could adversely affect our business and financial results. 18 Our industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively, which would harm our market share and cause our revenue to decline. The markets in which we operate are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, continuously evolving customer requirements and declining average selling prices. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. Most of our products compete with large semiconductor providers that have substantial experience and expertise in video, audio and multimedia technology and in selling to consumer equipment providers. Many of these companies have substantially greater engineering, marketing and financial resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Further, some of our competitors are in a better financial and marketing position from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology than we are. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower price. We also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies and customers who choose to develop their own SoCs. Additionally, some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities or may have stronger manufacturing partner relationships than we have. We expect our current customers, particularly in the IPTV media processor and connected media player markets, to seek additional suppliers of SoCs for inclusion in their products, which will increase competition and could reduce our market share. If we do not compete successfully, our market share an d net revenue could decline. If we fail to achieve initial design wins for our products, we may be unable to recoup our investments in our products and revenue could decline. We expend considerable resources in order to achieve design wins for our products, especially our new products and product enhancements, without any assurance that a customer will select our product. Once a customer designs a semiconductor into a product, it is likely to continue to use the same semiconductor or enhanced versions of that semiconductor from the same supplier across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time due to the significant costs and risks associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning the product to incorporate a different semiconductor. As a result, if we fail to achieve an initial design win in a customer's qualification process, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a number of its pro ducts and for a lengthy period of time, or we would only be able to sell our products to these customers as a second source, which usually means we would only be able to sell a limited amount of product to them. Also, even if we achieve new design wins with customers, these manufacturers may not purchase our products in sufficient volumes to recoup our development costs, and they can choose at any time to stop using our products, for example, if their own products are not commercially successful. This may cause us to be unable to recoup our investments in the development of our products and cause our revenue to decline. We base orders for inventory on our forecasts of our customers' demand and if our forecasts are inaccurate, our financial condition and liquidity would suffer. We place orders with our suppliers based on our forecasts of our customers' demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates. When the demand for our customers' products increases significantly, we may not be able to meet demand on a timely basis and we may need to expend a significant amount of time working with our customers to allocate a limited supply and maintain positive customer relations. If we underestimate customer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to or at all. As a result, we would have excess or obsole te inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase our cost of revenue and create a drain on our liquidity. We depend on a limited number of customers and any reduction, delay or cancellation of an order from these customers or the loss of any of these customers could cause our revenue to decline. Our dependence on a limited number of customers means that the loss of a major customer or any reduction in orders by a major customer could materially reduce our net revenue and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. We have no firm, long-term volume commitments from any of our major customers and we generally accept purchase commitments from our customers based upon their purchase orders. Customer purchase orders may be cancelled and order volume levels can be changed, cancelled or delayed with limited or no penalties. We have experienced fluctuations in order levels from period to period and expect that we will contin ue to experience such fluctuations and may experience cancellations in the future. We may not be able to replace the cancelled, delayed or reduced purchase orders with new orders. Any difficulty in the collection of receivables from key customers could also harm our business. For fiscal 2011, Motorola and Gemtek accounted for 24% and 23%, respectively, of our net revenue. For fiscal 2010, Motorola and Gemtek accounted for 21% and 12%, respectively, of our net revenue. For fiscal 2009, Motorola and Cisco Systems accounted for 21% and 16%, respectively, of our net revenue. 19 Our business also depends on demand for our SoC solutions from companies, such as large telecommunication carriers, who are not our direct customers but deploy IPTV set-boxes that incorporate our SoC solutions. Large carriers companies often use multiple set-top box providers, who in turn sometimes use multiple contract manufacturers to purchase our SoCs and manufacture set-top boxes. Even though we do not sell our products directly to these companies that ultimately deploy set-top boxes to consumers, these companies have a significant impact on the demand for our SoC solutions. For example, a significant number of our SoCs are incorporated into set-top boxes deployed by AT&T. This significant concentration on AT&T set-top boxes was increased by our acquisition of CopperGate. A significant percentage of the SoC solutions sold by CopperGate are also used in set-top boxes as well as gateways deployed by AT&T. In the past, companies that deploy set-top boxes incorporating our SoC solutions have had significant fluctuations in demand which has resulted in a decline in our business from our direct customers, such as original equipment manufacturers and contract manufacturers. Any decrease in the demand from the companies that deploy IPTV set-top boxes incorporating our SoC solutions, and in particular AT&T, could have a material and adverse effect on our net revenue and results of operation. If demand for our SoCs declines or does not grow, we will be unable to increase or sustain our net revenue. We expect our SoCs to account for a substantial majority of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. For fiscal 2011, sales of our SoCs represented approximately 100% of our net revenue. Even if the consumer electronic markets that we target continue to expand, manufacturers of consumer products in these markets may not choose to utilize our SoCs in their products. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent introduction of new technologies, short product life cycles and significant price competition. If we or our customers are unable to manage product transitions in a timely and cost effective manner, our net revenue would suffer. In addition, frequent technological changes and introduction of next generation products may result in inventory o bsolescence which would increase our cost of revenue and adversely affect our operating performance. If demand for our SoCs declines or fails to grow or we are unable to develop new products to meet our customers' demand, our net revenue could be harmed. The timing of our customer orders and product shipments can adversely affect our operating results and stock price. Our net revenue and operating results depend upon the volume and timing of customer orders received during a given period and the percentage of each order that we are able to ship and recognize as net revenue during each period. Customers may change their cycle of product orders from us, which would affect the timing of our product shipments. Any failure or delay in the closing of orders expected to occur within a quarterly period, particularly from significant customers, would adversely affect our operating results. Further, to the extent we receive orders late in any given quarter, we may not be able to ship products to fill those orders during the same period in which we received the corresponding order which could have an adverse impact on our operating results for that period. font> We may face intellectual property claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and intellectual property rights. We believe that it may be necessary, from time to time, to initiate litigation against one or more third parties to preserve our intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and may receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties' proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events or claims could result in litigation. Any such litigation could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture , use and sale of certain products or expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation, and we may not be successful in such development or in obtaining such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, patent disputes in the electronics industry have often been settled through cross-licensing arrangements. Because we do not yet have a large portfolio of issued patents, we may not be able to settle an alleged patent infringement claim through a cross-licensing arrangement. To remain competitive, we need to continue to transition our SoCs to increasingly smaller sizes while maintaining or increasing functionality, and our failure to do so may harm our business. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to more advanced technology to reduce the size of our SoCs. The smaller SoC size reduces our production and packaging costs, which enables us to be competitive in our pricing. We also continually strive to increase the functionality of our SoCs, which is essential to competing effectively in our target markets. The transition to smaller geometries while maintaining or increasing functionality requires us to work with our contractors to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. This effort requires considerable development investment and a risk of reduced yields as a new process is brought to acceptable levels of operating and quality efficiency. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers, and our failure to do so would impact our ability to provide competitive prices to our customers, which would have a negative impact on our sales. 20 The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects, which could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, adversely affect the market acceptance of new products and result in warranty claims. Highly complex products, such as those that we offer, frequently contain defects, particularly when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our SoCs contain highly sophisticated silicon technology and complex software. In the past we have experienced, and may in the future experience, defects in our products, both with our SoCs and the related software products we offer. If any of our products contain defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and our customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. Manufactu ring defects may not be detected by the testing process performed by our subcontractors. If defects are discovered after we have shipped our products, it could result in unanticipated costs, order cancellations or deferrals and product returns or recalls, harm to our reputation and a decline in our net revenue, income from operations and gross margins. In addition, our agreements with some customers contain warranty provisions, which provide the customer with a right to damages if a defect is traced to our products or if we cannot correct errors in our product reported during the warranty period. However, any contractual limitations to our liability may be unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction. We do not have insurance coverage for any warranty or product liability claims and a successful claim could require us to pay substantial damages. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, could have adverse effects on our business results. If our third-party manufacturers do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our relationships with our customers and our reputation will be harmed, which in turn would harm our operating results and financial performance. The fabrication of semiconductors is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields and, in some cases, cause production to be stopped or suspended. Although we work closely with our third-party manufacturers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, their facilities have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields that have resulted in our inability to meet our customer demand. It is not uncommon for yields in semiconductor fabrication facilities to decrease in times of high demand, in addition to reduced yields that may result from normal wafer lot loss due to workmanship or operational problems at these facilities. When these events occur , especially simultaneously, as happens from time to time, we may be unable to supply our customers' demand. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from the wafer foundries or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems or force us to sell our products at lower gross margins and therefore harm our financial results. The average selling prices of semiconductor products have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins. The semiconductor industry, in general, and the consumer electronics markets that we target, specifically, are characterized by intense price competition, frequent introductions of new products and short product life cycles, which can result in rapid price erosion in the average selling prices for semiconductor products. A decline in the average selling prices of our products could harm our revenue and gross margins. The willingness of customers to design our SoCs into their products depends to a significant extent upon our ability to sell our products at competitive prices. In the past, we have reduced our prices to meet customer requirements or to maintain a competitive advantage. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could impact our average selling p rices to all customers. If we are unable to reduce our costs sufficiently to offset declines in product prices or are unable to introduce more advanced products with higher margins in a timely manner, we could experience declines in our net revenue and gross margins. We rely upon patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm our ability to compete and to generate revenue. Our ability to compete may be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information. As of January 29, 2011, we held 90 patents and these patents will expire within the next four to nineteen years. These patents cover the technology underlying our products. We have filed certain patent applications and are in the process of preparing others. We cannot assure you that any additional patents for which we have applied will be issued or that any issued patents will provide meaningful protection of our product innovations. Like other semiconductor companies, we rely primarily on trade secrets and technological know-how in the conduct of our business. We use measures such as confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. 0;However, these methods of protecting our intellectual property may not be sufficient. 21 If the growth of demand in the consumer electronics market does not continue, our ability to increase our revenue could suffer. Our business is highly dependent on developing sectors of the consumer electronics market, including IPTV media processor, connected home, connected media player and prosumer and industrial audio/video. The consumer electronics market is highly competitive and is characterized by, among other things, frequent introductions of new products and short product life cycles. The consumer electronics market may also be negatively impacted by a slowdown in overall consumer spending. The worldwide economy, generally, and consumer spending, specifically, has significantly declined, which has negatively impacted our target markets. If our target markets do not grow as rapidly or to the extent we anticipate, our business could suffer. We expect the majority of our revenue f or the foreseeable future to come from the sale of our SoC solutions for use in emerging consumer applications. Our ability to sustain and increase revenue is in large part dependent on the continued growth of these rapidly evolving market sectors, whose future is largely uncertain. Many factors could impede or interfere with the expansion of these consumer market sectors, including consumer demand in these sectors, general economic conditions, other competing consumer electronic products, delays in the deployment of telecommunications video services and insufficient interest in new technology innovations. In addition, if market acceptance of the consumer products that utilize our products does not occur as expected, our business could be harmed. We have a history of fluctuating operating results, including a net loss in fiscal 2006 and we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have a history of fluctuating operating results. We reported net income of $70.2 million in fiscal 2008, net income of $26.4 million in fiscal 2009, net income of $2.5 million in fiscal 2010 and net income of $9.1 million in fiscal 2011. To sustain or increase profitability, we will need to successfully develop new products and product enhancements and sustain higher revenue while controlling our cost and expense levels. In recent years, we made significant investments in our product development efforts and have expended substantial funds to enhance our sales and marketing efforts and otherwise operate our business. However, we may not realize the benefits of these investments. Although we were profitable in fiscal 2011, we may not continue to be profitable.& #160; We may incur operating losses in future quarterly periods or fiscal years, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have engaged, and may in the future engage in acquisitions of other businesses and technologies which could divert our attention and prove difficult to integrate with our existing business and technology. We continue to consider investments in and acquisitions of other businesses, technologies or products, to improve our market position, broaden our technological capabilities and expand our product offerings. For example, in November 2009, we completed the acquisition of CopperGate Communications Ltd., an Israeli company. As a result, we added substantial operations, including 124 employees located in Israel and an additional 17 employees located outside of Israel. We also completed the acquisition of Zensys Holdings Corporation in December 2008, the acquisition of certain assets and 44 new employees of the VXP Group from Gennum Corporation in February 2008 and the acquisition of Blue7 Communications in February 2006. In the future, we may not be able to acquire or successf ully identify companies, products or technologies that would enhance our business. Once we identify a strategic opportunity, the process to consummate a transaction could divert our attention from the operation of our business causing our financial results to decline. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense, and the recording and subsequent amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. We may also record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. In addition, in order to complete acquisitions, we may issue equity securities and incur debt, which would result in dilution to our existing shareholders and could negatively impact profitability. We may experience difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. Integrating acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and the diversion of management resources from other business concerns; • unexpected costs or incurring unknown liabilities; 22 • difficulties relating to integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • adverse effects on the existing customer relationships of acquired companies; and • adverse effects associated with entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience. If we are unable to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire, our operating results could be harmed. The volatile global economy could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could negatively affect demand for our products and other related matters. Consequently, demand for our products could be different from our expectations due to factors including: • changes in business and economic conditions, including conditions in the credit market that could negatively affect consumer confidence; • customer acceptance of our products and those of our competitors; • changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations; and • reductions in the level of inventory our customers are willing to hold. There could also be a number of secondary effects from the current uncertainty in global economic conditions, such as insolvency of suppliers resulting in product delays, an inability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products or a desire of our customers to delay payment to us for the purchase of our products. The effects, including those mentioned above, of the current global economic environment could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards and, from time to time, has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors have caused, and could cause, substantial fluctuations in our net revenue and in our operating results. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of this industry to fully recover from downturns could harm our business. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results have varied and may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause our stock price to decline. The complexity of our international operations may increase our operating expenses and disrupt our business. We transact business and have operations worldwide. For example, we derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from our customers outside of North America and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. For fiscal 2011, we derived 95% of our revenue from customers outside of North America. We also have significant international operations, including operations in Israel, sales centers in Singapore and Taiwan, research and development facilities in Canada, France, Japan and Vietnam, a sales and research and development office in Denmark, and a sales and distribution facility in Hong Kong. As a result of our international business, we are affected by economic, regulatory and political conditions in foreign countries, including the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, varying statutory equity requirements, difficulties in collecting receivables and enforcing contracts, natural disasters, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates, economic instability, public health crises, acts of terrorism and continued unrest in many regions and other factors, which could have a material impact on our international revenue and operations. In particular, in some countries we may experience reduced intellectual prop erty protection. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase the sales price in local currencies of our products in international markets. Overseas sales and purchases to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Although we engage in some hedging of our foreign currency exposures, we do not hedge all such exposures and our hedging arrangements may not always be effective. See “Foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity” under Part II Item 7A“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in this Form 10-K. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the United States. We also face challenges in staffing and managing our global operations. If we are unable to manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our financial performance and operating results could suffer. 23 Our sales cycle can be lengthy, which could result in uncertainty and delays in generating net revenue. Because our products are based on constantly evolving technologies, we have experienced a lengthy sales cycle for some of our SoCs, particularly those designed for set-top box applications in the IPTV media processor market. After we have qualified a product with a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product with its service provider prior to the customer completing the design of its own equipment that will incorporate our product. Our customers and the telecommunications carriers our customers serve may need from three to more than nine months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three to more than nine months to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Our complete sales cycle typically ranges from nine to eighte en months, but could be longer. As a result, we may experience a significant delay between the time we increase expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing efforts and inventory and the time we generate net revenue, if any, from these expenditures. In addition, because we do not have long-term commitments from our customers, we must repeat our sales process on a continual basis even for current customers looking to purchase a new product. As a result, our business could be harmed if a customer reduces or delays its orders, chooses not to release products incorporating our SoCs or elects not to purchase a new product or product enhancements from us. We rely on a limited number of independent third-party manufacturers for the fabrication, assembly and testing of our SoCs and the failure of any of these third-party manufacturers to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We are a fabless semiconductor company and thus we do not own or operate a fabrication or manufacturing facility. We depend on independent manufacturers, each of whom is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies, to manufacture, assemble and test our products. We currently rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, or TSMC, and, to a lesser extent, United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, to produce substantially all of our SoCs. We rely on Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., or ASE, to assemble, package and test substantially all of our products. These third-party manufacturers may allocate capacity to the production of other companies' products while reducing product deliveries or the provision of services to us on short notice or they may increase the prices of the products and services they provide to us with little or no notice. In particular, other clients that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with ASE, TSMC or UMC may cause any or all of them to reallocate capacity to those clients, decreasing the capacity available to us. If we fail to effectively manage our relationships with the third-party manufacturers, if we are unable to secure sufficient capacity at our third-party manufacturers' facilities or if any of them should experience delays, disruptions or technical or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations or if we had to change or add additional third-party manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed, our relationships with our customers would suffer and our market share and operating results would suffer. If our third-party manufacturers' pricing for the products and services they provide increases and we are unable to pass along such increases to our customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. Also, the addition of manu facturing locations or additional third-party subcontractors would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, all of our product manufacturing, assembly and packaging is performed in Asian countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in these countries such as quarantines or closures of manufacturing facilities due to the outbreak of viruses such as swine flu, SARS, avian flu or any similar outbreaks. Each of these factors could harm our business and financial results. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth or develop our financial and managerial control and reporting systems, and we may need to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements of our growth, either of which could harm our business and operating results. To continue to grow, we must continue to expand and improve our operational, engineering, accounting and financial systems, procedures, controls and other internal management systems. This may require substantial managerial and financial resources and our efforts in this regard may not be successful. Our current systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. For example, we implemented a new enterprise resource management system in 2008. We integrated the operations of CopperGate into our enterprise resource management system in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Any integration efforts could be costly and time consuming. If we fail to adequately manage our growth or to improve and develop our operational, financ ial and management information systems or fail to effectively motivate or manage our current and future employees, the quality of our products and the management of our operations could suffer, which could adversely affect our operating results. 24 Our ability to develop, market and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of key executive, engineering, finance and accounting, sales, marketing and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the semiconductor industry, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in hiring and training new employees, could delay the developme nt and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell or support our products. If credit market conditions deteriorate further, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity related difficulties. Beginning mid 2007, global short-term funding markets have experienced credit issues, leading to liquidity issues and failed auctions in the auction rate securities market. If the global credit market continues to be weak or deteriorates further, the liquidity of our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our attention and resources. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies such as ours in the semiconductor industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. While we are not aware of any such contemplated class action litigation against us, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to investigate, defend and resolve. Such costs, which include investigation and defense, the diversion of our attention and resources and any losses resulting from these claims, could significa ntly increase our expenses and adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. Our business may become subject to seasonality, which may cause our revenue to fluctuate. Our business may become subject to seasonality as a result of our target markets. We sell a significant number of our semiconductor products into the consumer electronics market. Our customers who manufacture products for the consumer market typically experience seasonality in the sales of their products which in turn may affect the timing and volume of orders for our SoCs. Although we have not experienced seasonality to date in sales of our products due to the overall growth in demand for our semiconductor products, we may, in the future, experience lower sales in our first fiscal quarter and higher sales in our second fiscal quarter as a result of the seasonality of demand associated with the consumer electronics markets into which we sell a portion of our products. As a result, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. In the event we seek or are required to use a new manufacturer to fabricate or to assemble and test all or a portion of our SoC products, we may not be able to bring new manufacturers on-line rapidly enough, which could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We use a single wafer foundry to manufacture a substantial majority of our products and a single source to assemble and test substantially all of our products, which exposes us to a substantial risk of delay, increased costs and customer dissatisfaction in the event our third-party manufacturers are unable to provide us with our SoC requirements. Particularly during times when semiconductor capacity is limited, we may seek to, and in the event that our current foundry were to stop producing wafers for us altogether, we would be required to, qualify one or more additional wafer foundries to meet our requirements, which would be time consuming and costly. In order to bring any new foundries on-line, we and our customers would need to qualify their facilities which process could take as long as se veral months. Once qualified, each new foundry would then require an additional number of months to actually begin producing SoCs to meet our needs, by which time our perceived need for additional capacity may have passed, or the opportunities we previously identified may have been lost to our competitors. Similarly, qualifying a new provider of assembly, packaging and testing services would be a lengthy and costly process and, in both cases, they could prove to be less reliable than our existing manufacturers, which could result in increased costs and expenses as well as delays in deliveries of our products to our customers. 25 Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain debt financing. During fiscal 2009, we used an aggregate of $85.9 million to purchase 4.2 million shares of our common stock. In November 2009, we used approximately $116.0 million in cash (which includes approximately $28.0 million of acquired CopperGate cash) for the acquisition of CopperGate. The amount of cash we used for these repurchases and the acquisition of CopperGate could limit our ability to execute our business plans and require us to raise additional capital in the future in order to fund any further repurchases or for other purposes. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securiti es would result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Regional instability in Israel may adversely affect business conditions and may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. As a result of our acquisition of CopperGate in November 2009, we have engineering facilities, corporate and sales support operations and, as of January 29, 2011, we had 136 employees located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been and is subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with va rying levels of severity since September 2000. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region may negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our business insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in Israel, Singapore, the United States and various other countries and states. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • changes in tax laws in the countries in which we operate or the interpretation of such tax laws; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • changes in stock-based compensation expense; 26 • changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and • our ability to use our tax attributes such as research and development tax credits and net operating losses of acquired companies to the fullest extent. During fiscal 2009, we established a foreign operating subsidiary in Singapore. We anticipate that a portion of our consolidated pre-tax income will continue to be subject to foreign tax at relatively lower tax rates when compared to the United States federal statutory tax rate and, as a consequence, our effective income tax rate has been and is expected to continue to be lower than the United States federal statutory rate. Our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected if tax authorities challenge our international tax structure or if the relative mix of United States and international income changes for any reason. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our income tax rate will be less than the United States federal statutory rate. The income tax benefits in Israel to which we are currently entitled from our approved enterprise program may be reduced or eliminated by the Israeli government in the future and also require us to satisfy specified conditions. If they are reduced or if we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay increased taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Investment Center of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor has granted “approved enterprise” status to certain product development programs at our facility in Tel Aviv. Our taxable income from these approved enterprise programs is exempt from tax for a period of two years from 2010 and will be subject to a reduced tax for an additional eight years thereafter, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The Israeli government may reduce, or eliminate in the future, tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs. Our approved program and the resulting tax benefits may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would likely increase our tax liability. Additionally, the benefits available to an approved enterprise program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, or fail to get approval in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. In either case, the amount by which our taxes would increase will depend on the difference between the then applicable tax rate for non-approved enterprises and the rate of tax, if any, that we would otherwise pay as an approved enterprise, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. The current maximum enterprise tax rate in Israel is 25%. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting may cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the SEC, affect our NASDAQ listing and adversely affect our stock price. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. Our management is responsible for maintaining internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 29, 2011 and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. Please see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Although we review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. Our headquarters, certain of our other facilities, and some of our suppliers and third-party manufacturers are located in active earthquake zones. Earthquakes, tsunamis or other types of natural disasters affecting us, our suppliers or manufacturers could cause resource shortages and production delays, which would disrupt and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, have several research and development and sales offices in Japan and outsource most of our manufacturing to Taiwan. Each of these areas is an active earthquake zone, and certain of our suppliers and third-party manufacturers conduct operations in the same regions or in other locations that are susceptible to natural disasters. While we have not yet been impacted by the recent catastrophic earthquake and tsunami in Japan, any further devastation to this region could result in production delays or supply shortages. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, tsunami or flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, or any critical resource shortages, affecting us, our suppliers or our third-par ty manufacturers could cause a significant interruption in our production, business, damage or destroy our facilities or those of our suppliers and cause us to incur significant costs or result in limitations on the availability of our raw materials, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors and any of these factors could adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including: • the loss of one or more significant customers; • changes in our pricing models and product sales mix; • unexpected reductions in unit sales and average selling prices, particularly if they occur precipitously; • new product introductions by us and our competitors; • the level of acceptance of our products by our customers and acceptance of our customers' products by their end user customers; • an interrupted or inadequate supply of semiconductor chips or other materials included in our products; • availability of third-party manufacturing capacity for production of certain products; • shifts in demand for the technology embodied in our products and those of our competitors; • the timing of, and potential unexpected delays in, our customer orders and product shipments; • the impairment and associated write-down of strategic investments that we may make from time-to-time; • write-downs of accounts receivable; • inventory obsolescence; • a significant increase in our effective tax rate in any particular period as a result of the exhaustion, disallowance or accelerated recognition of our net operating loss carryforwards or otherwise; • technical problems in the development, production ramp up and manufacturing of products, which could cause shipping delays; • the impact of potential economic instability in the United States and Asia-Pacific region, including the continued effects of the recent worldwide economic slowdown; • expenses related to implementing and maintaining a new enterprise resource management system and other information technologies; and • expenses related to our compliance efforts with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, the market prices of securities of semiconductor and other technology companies have been volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. Our stock price has demonstrated volatility and continued volatility in the stock market may cause further fluctuations or decline in our stock price. The market for our common stock has been subject to significant volatility which is expected to continue. For example, the high and low selling prices per share of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from a high of $15.02 on January 18, 2011 to a low of $9.42 on July 7, 2010 during fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2010, the high and low selling prices per share of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from a high of $17.63 on June 22, 2009 to a low of $9.59 on February 3, 2009. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 28 If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of Sigma or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Provisions in our organizational documents, our shareholders rights agreement and California law could delay or prevent a change in control of Sigma that our shareholders may consider favorable. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our Board of Directors without prior shareholder approval, commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power of your shares. 0; In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan that provides each share of our common stock with an associated right to purchase from us one one-thousandth share of Series D participating preferred stock at a purchase price of $58.00 in cash, subject to adjustment in the manner set forth in the rights agreement. The rights have anti-takeover effects in that they would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire a significant interest in Sigma on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, provisions of California law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock by discouraging a hostile bid or delaying or deterring a merger, acquisition or tender offer in which our shareholders could receive a premium for their shares or a proxy contest for control of Sigma or other changes in our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 