Item 1A. Risk Factors. As indicated above in this Annual Report under "Forward-Looking Statements," the statements that are not historical facts contained in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect the current belief, expectations, estimates, forecast or intent of our management and are subject to and involve certain risks and uncertainties. Many of these risks and uncertainties are outside of our control and are difficult for us to forecast or mitigate. In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report and in certain of our other filings with the SEC, the following risks and uncertainties, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by us or by any forward-looking statement contained herein. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this Annual Report and our other public filings. The effects of the recent global financial crisis may have significant effects on our customers and suppliers that would result in material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price. The effects of the recent global financial crisis include, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economy has entered into or may enter into a further prolonged recessionary period. Accordingly, this financial crisis may materially adversely affect our customers' access to capital and/or willingness to spend capital on our products, and/or their levels of cash liquidity with which or willingness to pay for products that they will order or have already ordered from us, or result in their ceasing operations. Further, since the beginning of 2009, we have also experienced an increasing number of our customers, principally in emerging markets, requesting longer payment terms, lease or vendor financing arrangements, and/or longer terms for the letters of credit securing purchases of our products and services, which could potentially negatively impact our orders, revenue conversion cycle, and cash flows. In seeking to reduce their expenses, we have seen significant pressure from our customers to lower prices for our products and warranty services as they try to improve their operating performance and procure additional capital equipment within their reduced budget levels. To the extent that we lower prices on our products and services, our orders, revenues, and gross margins may be negatively impacted. Further, certain customers have sought and others may seek reductions in their operating expenses, particularly warranty related expenses. To the extent that we agree to negotiate lower prices on our warranty services, it may affect our ability to establish vendor specific objective evidence of the fair value ("VSOE") for these warranty services. Should we lose VSOE for these services, our products and implementation services will be recognized ratably over the warranty period upon completion of the delivery of all products and implementation services within a specific customer arrangement. Therefore, the timing of revenue recognition of these revenues would be substantially later than under our current revenue recognition model in which we have established VSOE for our warranty services. To reduce operating expenses, certain customers also have or are seeking to outsource the day-to-day management of their networks to network equipment manufacturers with which we compete, or are attempting to consolidate the number of suppliers by forcing other manufacturers to contract with such manufacturers, rather than directly with the customer. To the extent such outsourcings or consolidation increases the influence of our competitors in equipment and maintenance services purchased by our customers, customer demand for our products and services could be adversely affected and therefore negatively impact our orders, revenues, and gross margins. In addition, the global financial crisis may materially adversely affect our suppliers' access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventories, production levels, and/or product quality, could cause them to raise prices or lower production levels, or result in their ceasing operations. Further, with respect to the auction rate 14 securities rights discussed under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report, if the global financial crisis or recent litigation with the Internal Revenue Service results in UBS's inability to maintain the financial resources necessary to satisfy its obligations with respect to the auction rate securities and rights (the "Put right") held by Tekelec in a timely manner or at all, then the timing of and our ability to gain access to the liquidity represented by such auction rate securities and/or the Put right may be materially adversely affected. Further, the Put right currently valued at $11.1 million may become impaired resulting in a material impact to our earnings. Finally, with respect to the credit facility discussed under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report, if the global financial crisis adversely affects Wachovia Bank, National Association, (now owned by Wells Fargo Bank, National Association), our ability to access the funds available under the credit facility could be materially adversely affected. These potential effects of the global financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in certain markets which could result in material losses and harm our business. In addition to the risks described above, we are generally vulnerable to downturns in the economy and the telecommunications industry, political instability in emerging markets, and adverse changes in our customers' businesses and financial condition. Periodic slowdowns in the economy in general and in the telecommunications market in particular have weakened and could further weaken the financial condition of many of our customers, which could affect their creditworthiness. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks and avoiding credit losses. We also continue to monitor the impact that the following conditions may have on the worldwide economy: (i) credit exposure from weakened financial conditions in certain geographic regions; (ii) the currency controls enforced by local governments, such as prioritization of foreign vendor payments and obtaining government approval for vendor payments in hard currencies, in key customer geographic regions such as Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nigeria, Venezuela, and others; (iii) the risk of nationalization of the telecommunications industry in certain areas; and (iv) the devaluation of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar or currency controls put in place by foreign governments. We have periodically experienced losses due to customers' failing to meet their obligations. Although these losses have not been significant, future losses, if incurred and if material, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operating results have historically fluctuated and are expected to fluctuate in future periods, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly. We have failed to achieve our orders, revenue and net income expectations for certain prior periods, and it is possible that we will fail to meet these expectations in the future. In situations where we sell multiple products or sell a combination of integrated products and services that we cannot separate into multiple elements, we may defer revenue recognition until all product shipments are complete and until services essential to the functionality of the product are fulfilled, due to the fact that we follow the residual method of accounting as prescribed by the current authoritative guidance for software revenue recognition. Consequently, our revenue may vary significantly from period to period, as it may not be possible to ship all components of an order at the same time. Specifically, no revenue related to a sales arrangement may be recognized until all products in the sales arrangement are delivered, regardless of whether the undelivered product represents an insignificant portion of the arrangement fee. Accordingly, the residual method of accounting increases the volatility of our quarterly and annual revenues and profits. In addition, our product revenues in any quarter depend in part on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. A significant portion of our product shipments in each quarter occurs near the end of the quarter. Since individual orders can represent a meaningful percentage of our revenues and net income in any quarter, the deferral, cancellation of or failure to ship an entire order in a quarter can result in a revenue and net income shortfall that 15 causes us to fail to meet securities analysts' expectations, our business plan, or financial guidance provided by us to investors for that period. The delay in recognizing revenue from the time an order is booked could also result in an increase in revenue during a period when orders are declining on a current and prospective basis. Further, because a significant portion of our revenues is recognized upon customer acceptance of products following testing in their networks, delays or complications in such testing can affect the timing and amount of revenue recognition. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and revenue forecasts, and our operating costs in the short term are fixed to a large extent. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs in any quarter to adequately compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating results for that quarter. In addition, a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, can cause fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results, including those described in the other risk factors herein and, among others: price and product competition in the telecommunications industry which can change rapidly due to factors which include technological innovation; the introduction and market acceptance of our and our competitors' new products, services and technologies; the timing of the purchase and deployment by our customers of new technologies and services, in particular LTE, SIGTRAN, SIP, BICC and Diameter; the ability of telecommunications service providers to utilize excess capacity of signaling infrastructure and related products in their networks instead of purchasing our products; the progress and timing of the convergence of voice and data networks and other convergence-related risks described below; the size, timing, terms and conditions of customer orders and shipments; the duration and results of customers' acceptance testing of our products; sudden or unanticipated shortages of components provided by our vendors, particularly those components required to fulfill orders from our customers; a decline in the quality of the components produced by our vendors for resale to our customers; the lengthy sales cycle of our products, especially with respect to our international customers, and the resulting reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans for those products and associated revenue; our ability to achieve targeted cost and expense reductions; our dependence on wireless telecommunications service providers for a significant percentage of our revenues; unanticipated delays or problems in developing or releasing new products or services; variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold; the geographic mix of our revenues, in particular, the growth in emerging market business, and the associated impact on our gross margins; the mix of our product sales across product lines (i.e., between our higher margin, software-based products and lower margin, hardware- intensive products), which can have significant impact on our gross margins; the expense and other potential negative impact of current and future litigation and other disputes; actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets, including the amounts of related valuation allowances, liabilities, and other items reflected in our accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report; changes in accounting rules, such as recently issued rules related to fair value and software revenue recognition; our judgments regarding the recognition and deferral of revenues in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including as to whether an arrangement includes multiple elements and if so, whether vendor specific objective evidence of fair value exists for those elements, which judgments impact the amount and timing of product and service revenue recognized; our ability to fund and sustain our research and development activities and their impact on the development of new products and services; sizable employee and non-employee workforces located outside the United States, including in 16 Belgium, Brazil, Czech Republic, France, Germany, India, Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore, and the United Kingdom, , that are subject to differing labor laws, foreign currencies and political risks than found in the United States; costs associated with the expansion of our sales, marketing and support operations, both domestically and internationally; changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors; our ability to successfully comply with increased and complex regulations affecting our business; further restructuring costs; failure of certain customers to successfully and timely reorganize their operations; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and interest rate fluctuations. The factors described above are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results may be adversely affected by the uncertain international geopolitical environment and its adverse effect on global economic conditions. Recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, including terrorist activities, military actions, and/or political unrest around the world, the nationalization of privately owned telecommunications companies, as well as changes in energy, natural resources and precious metal costs, may continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. If the geopolitical environment internationally continues to deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We expect our gross margins to vary over time and our recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable, which may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. Our recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: increased price competition and the extension of more favorable credit terms, particularly from competitors in China; increased industry consolidation among our customers, which may lead to decreased demand for, and downward pricing pressure on, our products; changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including the mix of configurations within each product group; our ability to reduce and control production costs; increases in material or labor costs; excess inventory and inventory holding costs; obsolescence charges; changes in shipment volume; reductions in cost savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand; changes in distribution channels; losses on customer contracts; increased warranty costs; and increased customer service costs. Our failure to sustain our recent level of gross margins due to these or other factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 17 The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive, which could adversely affect our revenue and net income growth. For information regarding our competition and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled "Competition" contained in Item 1 of Part 1 of this Annual Report. Please also see the risk factor below entitled "If our products do not satisfy customer demand for performance, price, or terms, we could lose business to our competitors." Telecommunications industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and fewer customers and may harm our gross margins, operating results and financial condition. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue or expand operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors and fewer customers. Consolidation among our customers has caused and may continue to cause delays or reductions in capital expenditure plans and/or increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers declines and their relative purchasing power increases. Also, consolidation among our customers may increase their leverage in contract negotiations which may require us to agree to terms that are less favorable to our company than the terms of our prior agreements. This could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins, operating results, and financial condition. We have limited product offerings, and our revenues may suffer if demand for any of our products, and particularly our EAGLE 5, EAGLE XG and other signaling products declines or fails to develop as we expect or if we are not able to develop and market additional and enhanced products. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of our EAGLE 5 and our other signaling products. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, these products generated 52%, 56%, and 56%, respectively, of our product revenues. We expect that these products will continue to account for a majority of our product revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for these products, such as competition, technological change or a slower than anticipated rate of development or deployment of new products, features and technologies, could cause a significant decrease in our revenues and profitability. Continued and widespread market acceptance of these products is therefore critical to our future success. Moreover, our future financial performance will depend in significant part on the successful and timely development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our EAGLE 5, EAGLE XG and other signaling products as well as our other non-signaling related products. Introducing new and enhanced products such as these requires a significant commitment to research and development that may entail substantial risk and may not result in success. There are no assurances that we will be successful in developing and marketing additional products and related services. If wireless service providers do not continue to grow and to buy our EAGLE 5, EAGLE XG and related signaling products and services, our network signaling-related business would be harmed. Our success will depend in large part on the continued growth of wireless network operators and their purchases of our products and services. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the sale of our signaling EAGLE 5 related products and services to wireless network operators. In each of 2009, 2008, and 2007, our sales to the wireless market accounted for more than 50% of our EAGLE 5 related revenues. We expect that our sales of signaling products and services to wireless service providers will continue to account for a majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The continued growth of the domestic and international wireless markets is subject to a number of risks that could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, including: a continuing or further downturn in the domestic or global economy; a continuing or further slowdown in capital spending by wireless network operators; adverse changes in the debt and equity markets and in the ability of wireless service providers to obtain financing on favorable terms; delays in or scaling back of plans for the deployment by wireless network operators of new wireless broadband technologies and applications; 18 slowing growth of wireless network subscribers, minutes of use or adoption of new services; and increased competition among wireless operators. Consequently, there can be no assurances that wireless service providers will continue to purchase our EAGLE 5 and EAGLE XG -related products or services for the build-out or expansion of their networks. A decrease in such purchases could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and net income. If our products do not satisfy customer demand for performance, price, or terms, we could lose business to our competitors. The telecommunications equipment industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and we expect that the level of competition on pricing and product offerings will continue to be intense. If we are not able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, our current and potential customers may choose to purchase similar products offered by our competitors, which would negatively affect our revenues and/or profitability. We face formidable competition from a number of companies offering a variety of network signaling and performance management and monitoring products. The markets for our products are subject to rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and regulatory developments, and our operating results depend to a significant extent on our ability to adapt to these changes. Our competitors include many large companies as well as many smaller established and emerging technology companies. We compete principally on the basis of: product performance and functionality; product quality and reliability; customer service and support; and price. Many of our competitors have substantially broader product portfolios and financial and technological resources, product development, marketing, distribution and support capabilities, name recognition, established relationships with telecommunications service providers, and other resources that we do not have. Some of our primary competitors incur lower labor costs in countries such as China and, as a result, may be able to offer significantly lower pricing, forcing us to lower our prices or lose business, which at a minimum can adversely affect our gross margins. Further, one of our competitors is supported by the Chinese government, allowing them to, among other things, potentially fund operations in an expansive manner, offer credit terms over numerous years, and take significantly more credit risk than we do. Further, some of our competitors may price their products at unsustainably low levels in an effort to acquire market share or delay or avoid business failures. In addition, new competitors may enter our markets as a result of shifts in technology, and these competitors may include entrants from the telecommunications, computer software, computer services, data networking and semiconductor industries. The industries in which we operate are also undergoing consolidation which may result in stronger competitors and a change in our relative market position. We anticipate that competition will continue to intensify with the ongoing convergence of voice and data networks. We may not be able to compete effectively against existing or future competitors or to maintain or capture meaningful market share, and our business could be harmed if our competitors' products and services provide higher performance, offer additional features and functionality or are more reliable or less expensive than our products. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or take other actions to differentiate our products, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to develop or introduce new products in a timely fashion, our business will suffer. If we fail to develop or introduce on a timely basis new products or product enhancements or features that achieve market acceptance, our business will suffer. Rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, short product life cycles, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards characterize the markets for our products. Our success will depend to a significant extent upon our ability to accurately anticipate the evolution of new products, technologies and market trends and to enhance our existing products. It will also depend on our ability to timely develop and introduce innovative new products and enhancements that gain market acceptance. Finally, sales of our products depend in part on the continuing 19 development and deployment of emerging technology and network architecture standards (including IMS and LTE) and our ability to offer new products and services that comply with these standards or respond to these new architectures. We may not be successful in forecasting future customer requirements or in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products on a timely or cost-effective basis. Moreover, we may encounter technical problems in connection with our product development that could result in the delayed introduction of or inability to introduce new products or product enhancements and the cancellation of customer orders or delays in fulfilling customer orders. Such cancellations or delays could result in the imposition of penalties or other liabilities on us, a decrease in sales and/or a loss of customers. We may also focus on technologies that do not function as expected or are not widely adopted. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our products noncompetitive or obsolete and result in a significant reduction in orders from our customers and the loss of existing and prospective customers. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions or divestitures, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial position and the market value of our common stock, and the integration of acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. Our growth is dependent on a number of factors, including market growth, our ability to enhance existing products, our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis and market acceptance of our existing and new products. Our strategy includes acquiring new products and technologies through acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures, and may also include the divesting of all or a portion of our interests in some product lines. We have in the past and may in the future grow through the acquisition of companies, product lines or technologies. During the last five years, we have engaged in a number of acquisitions, including our acquisitions of iptelorg, mBalance and Estacado. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We may not realize the expected benefits of an acquisition. Our future acquisitions may also lead to potential write-downs, restructuring, or other one-time charges due to unforeseen business developments and other factors, and these charges may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and the market value of our common stock. If we make any further acquisitions, we may issue stock that would dilute our existing shareholders' percentage ownership or our earnings per share, incur substantial debt or assume contingent or unknown liabilities. Some of our employees have only limited experience in acquiring and integrating other businesses and technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: the industry may develop in a different direction than we anticipated, and the technologies we acquire may not prove to be those we need or the business model of acquired companies may become obsolete; the future valuations of acquired businesses may decrease from the market price we paid for these acquisitions; problems or delays in integrating or assimilating the acquired operations, technologies or products; difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees due to integration issues; inability to retain key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired or our business; inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could adversely impact our operating results; our relationships, or those of the acquired businesses, with existing customers, partners or third party providers of technology or products could be impaired; the due diligence processes may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; 20 we may incur significant impairment, exit, and/or restructuring charges if the products acquired in business combinations do not meet our sales expectations or are unsuccessful; and risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. Ultimately, if we do not successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses in a timely manner, or at all, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming problems in connection with our past or future acquisitions, and our inability to do so could significantly harm our assets acquired in such acquisitions, revenues and results of operations. We may not be successful in identifying or consummating acquisitions essential to the growth of our product lines, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we attempt to divest some of our business, we may not successfully complete this activity or we may not realize the benefits of any divesting activities which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may undertake further restructurings which may adversely impact our operations, and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future restructurings. We continue to evaluate our business to determine the potential need for realigning resources in order to achieve desired cost savings in an increasingly competitive market. In 2009, as well as in prior years, we have undertaken a series of restructurings of our operations involving, among other things and depending on the year, reductions of our workforce, the relocation of our corporate headquarters, the consolidation of certain of our manufacturing facilities, and the transformation from a business unit management structure to a functional organization (the "Restructurings"). If we initiate additional restructurings in the future, we will incur additional restructuring and related expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have based our restructuring efforts on certain assumptions regarding the cost structure of our businesses. Our assumptions may or may not be correct and we may also determine that further restructuring will be needed in the future. We therefore cannot assure you that we will realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Restructurings or that we will not further reduce or otherwise adjust our workforce or exit, or dispose of, certain businesses. Any decision by management to further limit investment, or to exit, or dispose of businesses may result in the recording of additional restructuring charges. As a result, the costs actually incurred in connection with the restructuring efforts may be higher than originally planned and may not lead to the anticipated cost savings and/or improved results. In addition, employees, whether or not directly affected by restructurings, may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors. We cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will not be compromised by any such employees who terminate their employment with us. Further, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, incent and retain highly skilled personnel. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining such personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce reductions. If we do not successfully manage the size of our operations, our profitability may be negatively impacted, and we may incur future restructuring charges which may adversely impact our operations. If we fail to manage the size of our operations effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Restructurings have particular risks, many of which are discussed above under the immediately preceding risk factor. In addition, as our operations continue to grow, we may need to implement new systems or upgrade current systems. The failure to successfully implement such new or improved systems could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The majority of our operating expenses are personnel-related costs such as employee compensation and benefits, along with the cost of the infrastructure (facility space and equipment) to support our operations and employee base. The failure to adjust our employee base to the appropriate level to support our orders and/or revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, 21 expanding the sale and distribution of our products may place new and increased demands on our direct sales force, professional services staff, and technical and sales support staff. Although we currently believe that we invest sufficient resources in our direct sales force, professional services staff, and our technical and sales support staff, there are only a limited number of qualified personnel in these areas. Our ability to achieve expanded distribution and revenue growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success in recruiting and training sufficient direct sales, professional services, and technical and sales support personnel. If we are not able to expand or reduce our direct sales force, professional services staff, and technical and sales support staff as may be necessary to support our operations, our business and operations could be harmed. A limited number of our customers account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of one or more of these customers and our failure to attract additional customers could adversely affect our operating results. In 2009, sales to AT&T represented 14% of our revenues, and sales to Verizon represented 10% of our revenues. Additionally, combined sales to the Orange Group and an affiliate represented 10% of our revenues in 2009, 2008, and 2007. In 2007, combined sales to the subsidiaries of Carso Global Telecom (Telefonos De Mexico and America Movil) represented 12% of our total revenues; sales to AT&T represented 10% of our total revenues. Reductions or delays of orders from one or more of our significant customers or the loss of one or more of our significant customers in any period could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the telecommunications industry has recently experienced a consolidation of both U.S. and non-U.S. companies. This consolidation leads to fewer customers and means that the loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. In order to increase our revenues, we will need to attract additional significant customers on an ongoing basis. Our failure to attract a sufficient number of such customers during a particular period, or our inability to replace a significant customer lost in a consolidation or merger, could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flow. We have significant international sales, and international markets have inherent risks, which could adversely affect our business. Doing business internationally is generally more costly than doing business in the United States. International opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before returns on such investments, if any, are realized, and such investments may result in expenses growing at a faster rate than revenues. In addition, access to foreign markets is often difficult due to the established relationships between a government-owned or controlled communications operating company and its traditional suppliers of communications equipment. These foreign communications networks are in many cases owned or strictly regulated by government. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully penetrate these markets. Internationally, we sell our products through our direct sales force, sales agents and distribution relationships. We also sell direct through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, the Czech Republic, Colombia, France, Germany, India, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, and our sales offices in China, Dubai and the Russian Federation. Total international revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $285.8 million, $296.8 million, and $263.7 million, respectively, representing 61%, 64% and 61%, respectively, of our total revenues. We expect that international sales will account for more than 50% of our revenues in the future. International sales are subject to inherent risks, including: unexpected changes in, or our lack of knowledge of, local legal or regulatory requirements, tariffs and duties; changes in a country's political or economic conditions including military conflicts or political or social unrest; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and distributors; longer accounts receivable cycles and difficulty in accounts receivable collection; differing technology standards and customer requirements; 22 greater trade regulations, nationalization of business and economic instability; potentially adverse tax consequences; import regulations and price controls imposed by local governments; restrictions on foreign currencies and trade barriers imposed by foreign countries; possible terrorist attacks; exchange rate fluctuations and exchange controls; and limited enforceability of our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. Exchange rate fluctuations on foreign currency transactions and translations arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in our operating results. Fluctuations in exchange rates could also affect demand for our products. If, for any reason, exchange or price controls or other restrictions in foreign countries are imposed, our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, any inability to obtain local regulatory approvals in foreign markets on a timely basis could harm our business. We intend to continue pursuing international and emerging market growth opportunities. We define emerging markets to be low and middle income countries as classified by the World Bank. In 2009, emerging markets accounted for 40% of our revenues. An inability to maintain or to continue to expand our business in international and emerging markets, including Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, Central America and South America, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, we currently have limited operations in Asia Pacific and we may have difficulty establishing relationships, building name recognition and penetrating these markets, which could adversely affect our performance in these markets and our operating results. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business. Large telecommunications service providers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with their vendors. These customers may require us to develop additional features and may impose penalties on us for failure to deliver such features on a timely basis, or failure to meet performance standards. We may agree to these less advantageous terms and conditions in order to obtain initial contracts or for other strategic reasons, which may decrease our revenues and/or increase the time it takes to convert orders into revenues, resulting in decreased profitability and greater variability of our quarterly and annual financial results. We outsource substantial portions of our research and development activities to third party vendors, and a loss of or deterioration in these relationships could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Significant portions of our research and development work are carried out by third party vendors operating in India and elsewhere. The loss of or deterioration in these relationships for any reason could result in a delay or failure to complete research and development projects, which could adversely affect our ability to introduce new products or product enhancements and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, the use of such third party vendors increases the risk that our proprietary technology could be rendered unprotectable or be disclosed to competitors, either of which would harm our competitiveness and would limit our future revenues. Our products are complex and may have defects or errors that are not detected until deployment, and disputes and litigation related to warranty and product liability claims could be expensive and could negatively affect our reputation and profitability. We may be exposed to warranty, breach of contract, product liability, fraud and other claims if our products fail to perform as expected or if the use of our products results in property damage or bodily injury. Our highly complex products may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as new versions are released, and those defects or errors may not be detected until deployment or long after a product has been deployed. Our products, even if error- or defect-free, must also interoperate with other equipment in customer networks, and such operation may result in technical problems with our products. Because of the critical and revenue-affecting role played by many of our products in customer networks, such defects, errors or failures to properly interoperate, particularly those that result in service interruptions or a failure of telecommunications networks, could harm our customer 23 relationships, business and reputation, and/or result in material warranty or product liability losses. There can be no assurances that our products will not have defects or errors or will properly interoperate with other equipment. A warranty or product liability claim brought against us could result in costly, protracted, highly disruptive and time-consuming litigation, which would harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to claims arising from our failure to properly service or maintain our products or to adequately remedy defects in our products once such defects have been detected. Although our agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential warranty and product liability claims, it is possible that these limitations may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions, particularly since we have significant international sales. Although we maintain product liability insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover all claims to which we may be subject. The assertion against us of one or more claims, whether or not insured, could harm our business reputation, our profitability and our financial condition. Our business is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that has resulted in increased costs and may continue to result in additional costs in the future. We are subject to rules and regulations of federal and state regulatory authorities, The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC and financial market entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. During the past few years, these entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and NASDAQ, have issued requirements and regulations and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements partly in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX"). Our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of substantial management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Moreover, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. Uncertainties associated with and implications of the changing regulatory landscape in the telecommunications industry, as well as uncertainties relating to regulation of the Internet, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our compliance with telecommunications regulations and standards, as well as our efforts to ensure the interoperability of our products with our customers' networks, may be time consuming, difficult, costly and affect our proprietary rights, and if we fail to comply, our product sales would decrease. In order to maintain market acceptance, our products must continue to meet a significant number of regulations and standards. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations defined by the Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") and Underwriters Laboratories, as well as standards previously established by Telcordia (formerly Bell Telecommunications Research) and those developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force ("IETF"), the 3rd Generation Partnership Project ("3GPP") and other standard-setting committees. Internationally, our products must comply with standards established by telecommunications authorities in various countries as well as with recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union ("ITU"). As these standards evolve and if new standards are implemented, we will be required to modify our products or develop and support new versions of our products, and this may negatively affect the sales of our products and increase our costs. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving industry standards could prevent or delay introduction of our products, which could harm our business. Our involvement with standard-setting organizations could also result in the unenforceability of our proprietary rights. Government regulatory policies are likely to continue to have a major impact on the pricing of existing as well as new public network services and, therefore, are expected to affect demand for such services and the communications products, including our products, which support such services. Tariff rates, the rates charged by service providers to their customers, whether determined autonomously by service providers or in response to regulatory directives, may affect the cost effectiveness of deploying public network services. Tariff policies are 24 under continuous review and are subject to change. Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to additional services could adversely affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. There may be future changes in telecommunications regulations in the U.S. or other countries that could slow the expansion of the service providers' network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. User uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products, including our products. In addition, the convergence of circuit and packet networks could be subject to governmental regulation. Currently, few laws or regulations apply to the Internet and to matters such as voice over the Internet. Regulatory initiatives in this area could decrease demand for our products and increase the cost of our products, thereby adversely affecting our business. We operate in a complex environmental regulatory environment. Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental laws in various jurisdictions around the world. We seek to operate our business in compliance with such laws. We have been and will continue to be subject to various product content laws and product takeback and recycling requirements that will require full compliance in the coming years. We expect that these laws will require us to incur additional compliance costs. Although costs relating to environmental matters have not resulted in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition in the past, there can be no assurance that we will not incur increased environmental costs in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Failure to recruit and retain key personnel could harm our ability to meet key objectives and adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. We depend to a significant extent upon the continuing services and contributions of our senior management team and other key employees. We generally do not have long-term employment agreements or other arrangements with our employees that would prevent them from leaving Tekelec. Our success also has depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive programs, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, or our inability to attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet our key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions, and could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified employees in the future and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse resolution of disputes and litigation may harm our operating results and financial condition. We are a party to disputes and lawsuits from time to time in the normal course of our business, including disputes and lawsuits involving allegations of product liability, product defects, quality problems, breach of contract, and intellectual property infringement. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular dispute or lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results, and/or financial condition. We maintain liability insurance for certain legal risks and also accrue for litigation risks when it is probable that an obligation has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We may, however, incur losses relating to litigation beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance, and our provisions for litigation related losses may not be sufficient to cover our ultimate losses or expenditures. Losses in litigation may therefore have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. With respect to certain disputes or litigation, even if we maintain a strong legal position under applicable law, we may choose to settle such disputes or litigation and pay significant amounts in order to avoid damage to our reputation or future business harm. 25 Our effective tax rate could be highly volatile and could adversely affect our operating results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by (i) earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory tax rates and higher in countries that have higher statutory tax rates, (ii) changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, (iii) changes in laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, and (iv) the results of examinations by tax authorities. Primarily as the result of the disposition of our former SSG business unit in early 2007, a significant number of employee stock options expired unexercised during 2007, resulting in the exhaustion of our "pool of windfall tax benefits" as of December 31, 2007 under the authoritative guidance for stock compensation. As a result, future cancellations or exercises that result in a tax benefit that is less than the related deferred tax asset will negatively impact our effective tax rate and increase its volatility, resulting in a reduction of our earnings. We are subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. The outcomes from these examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Specifically, we may receive assessments related to the audits and/or reviews of our U.S. income tax returns that exceed amounts provided for by us. In the event we are unsuccessful in reducing the amount of such assessments, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, if additional taxes and/or penalties are assessed as a result of these audits, there could be a material effect on our income tax provision, operating expenses and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could seriously harm our business. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the controls and procedures are met. The failure or circumvention of our controls, policies and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the U.S. and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Similarly, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or in the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to the credit and liquidity risk related to our auction rate securities portfolio, which if the current liquidity issues in the market continue, could result in material losses. Beginning in February 2008 and continuing through December 31, 2009, auctions involving our auction rate securities ("ARS") portfolio have failed, resulting in our inability to sell these securities. A failed auction results in a lack of liquidity in the securities but does not necessarily represent a deterioration of the credit quality of the issuer. As of December 31, 2009, we had $93.0 million of par value invested in ARS, which are being carried at a fair value of $81.8 million. All of these auction rate securities are AAA, AA or A rated by one or more of the major credit rating agencies and are principally collateralized by student loans. At December 31, 2009, on a weighted average basis, approximately 92% of the underlying student loan collateral was issued under the Federal Family Education Loan Program ("FFELP"). Student loans issued under the FFELP program are currently 97% guaranteed by the U.S. government. 26 On October 31, 2008, we accepted an offer from UBS for auction rate securities rights related to our ARS portfolio. Under the terms of the Put right, UBS has the right, at its discretion, to purchase these securities from us at par value which is defined as the price equal to the liquidation preference of the ARS plus accrued but unpaid dividends or interest, if any, at any time until July 2, 2012, and we have the right, at our discretion, to require UBS to purchase the securities at par value plus accrued interest at any time between June 30, 2010 and July 2, 2012. As of December 31, 2009, the estimated fair value of the Put right is $11.1 million and is included in the caption "Put right, at fair value" in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets included in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report. UBS's obligations under the Put right are not secured by any of its assets and do not require UBS to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations under the Put right. UBS has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations under the Put right. If UBS does not satisfy its obligations and liquidity is not otherwise restored to our ARS portfolio, there may be a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition and we may incur material losses. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates and, therefore, impairment of our investments or lower investment income could harm our earnings. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. These securities are classified as trading and, consequently, are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported in earnings. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" contained in Part II of this Annual Report. There can be no assurances that our measures to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights are adequate, and if we fail to protect those rights, our business would be harmed. Our success depends to a significant degree on our proprietary technology and other intellectual property. Although we regard our technology as proprietary, we have sought only limited patent protection in a limited number of countries. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These measures, however, afford only limited protection and may not provide us with any competitive advantage or effectively prevent third parties from misappropriating our technology or other intellectual property. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, which makes misappropriation of our technology and other intellectual property more likely. It is possible that others will independently develop similar products or design around our patents and other proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or if we fail to detect misappropriation of our proprietary rights, our ability to effectively compete could be seriously impaired which would limit our future revenues and harm our prospects. Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be approved, and our competitors and others may challenge the validity or scope of our patent or trademark registration applications or issued patents and trademarks. If we fail to apply for patent protection for competitively important technology or do not receive the patents or trademark registrations we seek, or if they are held invalid once issued or other problems arise with our intellectual property, our competitiveness could be significantly impaired and our business, operations and prospects may suffer. In addition, from time to time we face challenges to the validity or enforceability of our proprietary rights and litigation may be necessary to enforce and protect our rights, or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights and the rights of others. Any such litigation would be expensive and time consuming, would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from business operations and could result in the outright loss of our proprietary rights, and would likely harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. 27 Because we are subject to third parties' claims that we are infringing their intellectual property and may become subject to additional such claims in the future, we may be prevented from selling certain products and we may incur significant expenses in resolving these claims. We receive from time to time claims of infringement from third parties or we may otherwise become aware of relevant patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties that may lead to disputes and litigation. Any claims made against us regarding patents or other intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming to resolve or defend and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any such claims would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. A claim by a third party may require us to modify or cease marketing our products, develop new technologies or products, enter into costly royalty or license agreements with respect to the proprietary rights that are the subject of the infringement claim or refund to our customers all or a portion of the amounts they have paid for infringing products. If such claims are asserted, there can be no assurances that we would prevail, successfully modify our products or be able to acquire any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may be requested to defend and indemnify certain of our customers and resellers against claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others. In the event of the unfavorable outcome of such claims we may be required to pay significant damages or be subject to injunctions against the sale of certain products or use of certain technologies, and there can be no assurances that any such claims or litigation can be avoided or successfully resolved. There can be no assurances that our technologies or products do not infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties or that such parties will not initiate or prevail in infringement actions against us. Further, the companies that we have acquired or that we may acquire could have these types of intellectual property exposures that we are unaware of or that are of higher risk than in our existing business. If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements or customer demand or fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, we could incur additional costs or be unable to fulfill our customer commitments in a timely manner, which in either case would adversely affect our business and results of operations and, in the event of an inability to fulfill commitments, would harm our customer relationships. We outsource a substantial portion of our manufacturing and repair service operations to independent contract manufacturers and other third parties. Our contract manufacturers typically manufacture our products based on rolling forecasts of our product needs that we provide to them on a regular basis. The contract manufacturers are responsible for procuring components necessary to build our products based on our rolling forecasts, building and assembling the products, testing the products in accordance with our specifications and then shipping the products to us. We configure the products to our customer requirements, conduct final testing and then ship the products to our customers. Although we currently partner with multiple major contract manufacturers, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter problems as we become increasingly dependent on contract manufacturers to provide these manufacturing services or that we will be able to replace a contract manufacturer that is not able to meet our demand. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements or forecast customer demand, we may incur additional costs of manufacturing and our gross margins and financial results could be adversely affected. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may experience an oversupply of components and assess us charges for excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our gross margins. If we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate inventory or components, which could interrupt manufacturing and result in higher manufacturing costs, shipment delays, damaged customer relationships and/or our payment of penalties to our customers. Our contract manufacturers may also have other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all of their customers' needs, including ours, during periods of excess demand. In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers or other service providers, or if one or more of them should not fully comply with their contractual obligations or should experience delays, disruptions, component procurement problems or quality control problems, then our ability to ship products to our customers or otherwise fulfill our contractual obligations to our customers could be delayed or impaired which would adversely affect our business, financial results and customer relationships. 28 We rely on third parties to provide many of our subsystems, components, software licenses and other intellectual property included in our products. If we are unable to obtain these subsystems, components and licenses from these parties at reasonable prices or on a timely basis, we may not be able to obtain substitute subsystems, components and licenses on terms that are as favorable. Many of our products contain software or other intellectual property, subsystems or components licensed or acquired from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses and supplies relating to various aspects of these products. These licenses and components are often available only from a limited number of vendors and manufacturers. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses or components would be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In the event that a component or license becomes obsolete or otherwise unavailable from a current third party vendor, second sourcing would be required. This sourcing may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and our problems in securing second sources could delay or prevent customer deliveries, resulting in penalties and/or other adverse impacts on our business. Many of our contracts with our customers have provisions that obligate us to support our solutions for extended periods of time, often years. Any inability to obtain licenses and components required for such support after our suppliers have discontinued providing them may result in our having to replace hardware or software under our warranty program at little or no charge to our customers and at considerable expense to us, resulting in an adverse impact to our business. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters. Our operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. A number of our facilities and those of our suppliers, our contract manufacturers, and our customers are located in areas that have been affected by natural disasters such as ice and snow storms, earthquakes, floods or hurricanes in the past. A significant natural disaster could therefore have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our U.S. locations are insured against losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes, floods and other natural or manmade disasters, but our international locations are self-insured for these types of events. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in recent years. The trading price may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other events and factors: (i) the current global economic crisis; (ii) variations in quarterly operating results; (iii) the gain or loss of significant orders; (iv) changes in earnings and ratings estimates by analysts; (v) changes in our revenue and/or earnings guidance as announced in our earnings calls or press releases; (vi) announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; (vii) changes in domestic and international economic, political and business conditions; and (viii) consolidation and general conditions in the telecommunications industry. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies in our industry and in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 