ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many risk factors that may adversely affect the Company’s operating results; risk factors that X-Rite deems critical include the following: Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, geographic, regulatory and other specific risks associated with international operations. The acquisition of Amazys in July of 2006 significantly expanded our international operations. During fiscal 2006, we derived approximately 59.2% of our total revenues from sales of our products outside of the United States, compared with 47.5% during fiscal 2005. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. There can be no assurance that we will maintain or expand our international sales. We believe that our future growth will be dependent, in part, upon our ability to maintain and increase revenues in our existing and potential international markets. If the revenues generated from international activities, especially in emerging markets, are inadequate to offset the expense of maintaining such international operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The increasingly international reach of our businesses could also subject us and our results of operations to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing economic and political conditions. Specifically, international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • lack of experience in a particular geographic market; • tariffs and other barriers, including import and export requirements and taxes on subsidiary operations; • different and changing regulatory requirements in various countries and regions; • fluctuating exchange rates and currency controls; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and support operations; 7 • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including repatriation of earnings; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside the U.S.; • development and support of localized and translated products; • lack of acceptance of localized products or X-Rite in foreign countries; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • labor force instability, including possible shortages of skilled personnel required for local operations; and • political and/or economic instability, such as perceived or actual public health (e.g. SARS) or terrorist risks which impact a geographic region and business operations therein. As we expand our international operations, we may encounter new risks. For example, as we focus on building our international sales and distribution networks in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing these relationships, we may not be able to grow sales in these geographic regions. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to design, develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business. Our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and pursue our strategic objectives depends on the continued services of our current management, sales, product development and technical personnel and our ability to identify, attract, train and retain similar personnel. Competition for top management personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need if we are unable to offer competitive salaries and benefits, or if our stock does not perform well. The loss of any one of our management personnel, or our inability to identify, attract, train, retain and integrate additional qualified management personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and pursue our strategic objectives. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. Similarly, competition for skilled sales, product development and technical personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of the services of key sales, product development and technical personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products to our customers or manage our business effectively. We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline. In fiscal 2006, we derived approximately US$106.4 million, or 59.2% of our total revenues, from sales of our products outside of the United States. Measured in local currency, a substantial portion of our business’ foreign generated revenues were generated in Swiss Francs, Euros and British Pound Sterling. The United States dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities. We currently have no hedging or similar foreign currency contracts to mitigate the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely impact the profitability of our foreign operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. We have made significant expenditures to develop and acquire technology and intellectual property rights. We actively patent and trademark these properties whenever possible and will vigorously defend them against infringement. Our failure to protect our intellectual property could seriously harm our business and prospects 8 because we believe that developing new products and technologies that are unique is critical to our success. We will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our intellectual propriety rights. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Patent filings by third parties could render our intellectual property less valuable. Disputes may arise as to ownership of our intellectual property or as to whether products designed by our competitors infringe our intellectual property rights. Employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also capture market share from us by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing on our intellectual property rights. In addition, as sales of our products continue to grow internationally, our exposure to intellectual property infringements in countries where intellectual property rights protections are less stringent will increase. If we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. We cannot assure you that others will not claim that our proprietary or licensed products are infringing on their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe on those intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. If someone claims that our products infringed on their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not have financing for future technology and capital requirements, which may prevent us from addressing gaps in our product offerings, improving our technology or increasing our manufacturing capacity. If we cannot incur additional debt or issue equity or are limited with respect to incurring additional debt or issuing equity, we may be unable to address gaps in our product offerings, improve our technology or increase our manufacturing capacity, particularly through strategic acquisitions or investments. Although historically our cash flow from operations has been sufficient to satisfy working capital, capital expenditure and research and development requirements, in the future we may need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund these requirements as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights and preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation. The terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. If we raised funds through the issuance of equity, this issuance would dilute your ownership of us. If the price of our equity is low or volatile, we may not be able to issue additional equity to fund future acquisitions. 9 Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and strategic acquisitions and investments, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our business could be negatively impacted. The businesses in which we compete are very competitive and subject to technological change, evolving standards, frequent product enhancements and introductions and changing customer requirements. Many of our current and potential competitors have (1) longer operating histories, (2) significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, (3) greater name recognition, and/or (4) a larger installed customer base than X-Rite. A number of companies offer products and services that are similar to those offered by us and that target the same markets. In addition, any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than us. Our competitors may develop products and services that compete with those offered by us or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with us. It also is possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share, including in new and emerging markets. If we are not able to differentiate our products and services in the market then competitive pressures may potentially impact our sales volumes, pricing structure, gross margin, operating expenses an operating income. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that current or potential competitors of X-Rite will not develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that we develop, combine or merge to form significant competitors, or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share for our products and services, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors of X-Rite or that the competitive pressures that the company may face will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We may be affected by environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations relating to discharges of substances in the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the cleanup of properties necessitated by pollutants. Any of those regulations could require us to acquire expensive equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with them. If we incur substantial additional expenses, product costs could significantly increase. Also, if we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws, rules and regulations, such failure could result in fines, suspension of production or cessation of operations. We are vertically integrated and, therefore, must manage costs efficiently. A significant portion of our manufacturing processes are vertically integrated. Therefore, it is critical to efficiently manage the cost structure for capital expenditures, materials and overhead, as well as operating expenses such as wages and benefits. Our reliance on outsourced manufacturing presents risks to our fulfillment process. We rely on a number of strategic supply chain partners that produce key components or sub-assemblies that support our final assembly, calibration, and test process. Some of these suppliers are single sourced and therefore present risks to our fulfillment process. We depend on new product development to compete effectively. We have made large investments in new products and services. There are no assurances as to when future revenues from these products will be received, or that the ultimate profit margins received will be adequate to justify the investment. 10 Continual development of new products and technologies as well as enhancements to existing products is a core component of our long-term growth plans. Our future business, financial condition and results of operations will depend to a significant extent on our ability to develop new products that address these market opportunities. As a result, we believe that significant expenditures for research and development will continue to be required in the future. Product development requires a time-consuming and costly research and development process. Unexpected delays in this process may significantly affect the timing of future revenues and increase costs. We must anticipate the features and functionality that customers will demand, incorporate those features and functionality into products, price our products competitively and introduce new products to the market on a timely basis. We cannot assure you that the products we expect to introduce will incorporate the features and functionality demanded by our customers, will be successfully developed, or will be introduced within the appropriate window of market demand. If there are delays in production of current or new products, our potential future business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the time required for competitors to develop and introduce competing products may be shorter, their manufacturing yields may be better, and their production costs may be lower than those experienced by us. Any general economic slowdown could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Many of our products are used for quality control purposes within a larger manufacturing or production process. As such, our sales in some instances are linked to capital goods spending. Should there be a prolonged slowdown in capital goods spending or changes in global economic conditions, our revenues and profitability could be noticeably impacted. We may face potential tax liabilities. We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions in the United States, Europe, Asia and elsewhere. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax liability cannot be determined with certainty at the time the transaction is entered into. Preparation of our income tax provision requires the use of judgments as to how these transactions will ultimately be taxed. We believe our tax accruals are accurate though the ultimate determination of these issues may be different from that which is reflected in our historical provision and accruals. Should these determinations be different from what is previously recorded and additional tax is assessed, those assessments would be recorded in the period in which they occur. The market price of our common stock may decline The market price of the X-Rite’s common stock is dependent on many factors and may decline if: • the integration of Amazys’ business is unsuccessful or takes longer than expected; • the Company does not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition of Amazys as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors; or • the effect of our acquisition of Amazys on the Company’s financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors. Uncertainties related to the integration of Amazys may impact on-going operations The Company intends, to the extent reasonably practicable, to integrate its operations with those of Amazys. The goal in integrating these operations is to increase earnings and achieve cost savings by taking advantage of the anticipated synergies of consolidation and enhanced growth opportunities. Actual costs may vary from the preliminary estimates. There can be no assurance that the Company will not encounter difficulties integrating its operations with Amazys’ operations, resulting in a delay or the failure to achieve the anticipated synergies and, therefore, the expected increases in earnings and cost savings. The potential difficulties of combining the operations of the companies may include, among other things: • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between X-Rite and Amazys; 11 • coordinating and consolidating ongoing and future research and development efforts; • consolidating sales and marketing operations; • retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; • retaining strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; • retaining key employees; • retaining and integrating distributors and key sales representatives; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures, including consolidating and integrating computer information and financial systems; • integrating and managing the technologies and products of the two companies; • identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; • using capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; • possible modification of operating control standards in order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and • retaining and attracting new engineers and research and development personnel to support new products and new technology development. For these reasons, the Company may fail to complete successfully the integration of X-Rite and Amazys, or to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies. Actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than currently expected and may take a longer time to achieve than currently anticipated. Customer and supplier relationships may be affected by the Amazys acquisition X-Rite and Amazys have numerous strategic relationships and business alliances with other companies to deliver and market their products to customers. As a result of the acquisition, some of these relationships may change in a manner adverse to X-Rite’s and/or Amazys’ businesses. In addition, customers of X-Rite and Amazys, in response to the acquisition, may delay or defer purchasing decisions or elect to switch to other suppliers. Any delay, deferral, or change in purchasing decisions by the customers of X-Rite and Amazys could seriously harm the businesses of X-Rite and/or Amazys. Challenges in managing a larger global employee base X-Rite has acquired approximately 400 employees of Amazys worldwide in conjunction with the acquisition. The Company faces challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The inability to successfully manage the geographically more diverse and substantially larger combined organization, or any significant delay in achieving successful management, could have a material adverse effect on the Company, as a result, on the market price of its common stock. The Companies reliance on a primary manufacturing center may affect timely product production and profitability Manufacturing and service of much of our core color products are performed at our headquarters facility in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and in our European headquarters facility in Regensdorf, Switzerland. Should a 12 catastrophic event occur at either of these facilities, our ability to manufacture products, complete existing orders, and provide other services would be severely impacted for an undetermined period of time. We have purchased business interruption insurance to cover the costs of an event of this magnitude. Our inability to conduct normal business operations for a period of time may have an adverse impact on long-term operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS—None 13 