ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS There are many risk factors that may adversely affect the Company’s operating results, including the following significant risks. See also the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements located herein at Item 8 for additional risks that may affect the Company. Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, geographic, regulatory and other specific risks associated with international operations. During fiscal 2010, we derived approximately 66.9 percent of our total revenues from sales of our products outside of the United States, compared with 64.7 percent during fiscal 2009 and 67.2 percent during fiscal 2008. Substantially all of our foreign generated revenues were denominated in Swiss Francs, Euros, British Pound Sterling, or Chinese Yuan. The United States dollar value of our foreign generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities. We currently have no hedging or similar foreign currency contracts to mitigate the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely impact the profitability of our foreign operations. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. There can be no assurance that we will maintain or expand our international sales. If the revenues generated from international activities, especially in emerging markets, are inadequate to offset the expense of maintaining such international operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The increasingly international reach of our businesses could also subject us and our results of operations to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing economic and political conditions. Specifically, international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • lack of experience in a particular geographic market; • tariffs and other barriers, including import and export requirements, taxes on subsidiary operations and investment restrictions or requirements; • different and changing regulatory requirements in various countries and regions; • fluctuating exchange rates and currency controls; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and support operations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including repatriation of earnings; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside the U.S.; • development and support of localized and translated products; • lack of acceptance of localized products or X-Rite in foreign countries; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • labor force instability, including possible shortages of skilled personnel required for local operations; • exposure to local economic conditions; and • political, economic, and civil instability, such as perceived or actual public health, terrorist risks, violence, civil unrest, or outbreaks of war which impact a geographic region and business operations therein. As we expand our international operations, we may encounter new risks. For example, as we focus on building our international sales and distribution networks in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing these relationships, we may not be able to grow sales in these geographic regions. 7 Table of Contents Our debt level and the inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. As of January 1, 2011, the Company had $136.6 million of first lien and revolving debt and $36.4 million of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock, net of warrant discount of $10.6 million. This amount of debt and payment obligations with respect to our preferred stock will require significant interest and principal payments. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our credit agreements and the terms of our preferred stock could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our debt level and the terms of our preferred stock may adversely affect our future performance, because, among other things: • We may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors, some of which have lower fixed payment obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • Our ability to complete future acquisitions may be limited; • We will have to use a portion of our cash flow for debt service and satisfying our payment obligations with respect to our preferred stock rather than for investment in research and development and capital expenditures; • We may not be able to obtain further debt financing and/or we may have to pay more for such additional financing as we are able to obtain; • We may not be able to take advantage of business opportunities; and • We will be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. The senior credit facilities contain certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to create liens, incur indebtedness, make certain investments or acquisitions, pay dividends, repurchase shares, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, incur capital expenditures beyond prescribed limits and that require us to deliver certain reports and information, and meet certain financial ratios. In addition, the terms of our preferred stock contain certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to create new classes of equity securities, incur indebtedness, pay dividends, or repurchase shares. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our preferred stock will depend upon our future operating performance and cash flows, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to access the capital markets to obtain future debt or equity financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all in connection with the repayment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our preferred stock, these obligations could be accelerated, thereby causing our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if one or more rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, we may have difficulty obtaining additional financing, refinancing existing indebtedness and/or our cost of obtaining additional financing or refinancing existing indebtedness may be increased significantly. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to design, develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business. Our operations and the development of new products require expertise. In addition, our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and pursue our strategic objectives depends on the continued services of our current management, sales, product development and technical personnel and our ability to identify, attract, train and retain similar personnel. Competition for top management personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need if we are unable to offer competitive compensation and benefits. The loss of any one of our management personnel, or our inability to identify, attract, train, retain and integrate additional qualified management personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and pursue our strategic objectives. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. Similarly, competition for skilled sales, product development and technical personnel is intense and we may not 8 Table of Contents be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of the services of key sales, product development and technical personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products to our customers or manage our business effectively. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. We have made significant expenditures to develop and acquire technology and intellectual property rights. We actively patent and trademark these properties when deemed appropriate and will vigorously defend them against infringement. Our failure to protect our intellectual property could seriously harm our business and prospects because developing new products and technologies is critical to our success. We will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our intellectual propriety rights. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Patent filings by third parties could render our intellectual property less valuable. Disputes may arise as to ownership of our intellectual property or as to whether products designed by our competitors infringe our intellectual property rights. Employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also capture market share from us by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing on our intellectual property rights. In addition, as sales of our products continue to grow internationally, our exposure to intellectual property infringements in countries where intellectual property rights protections are less stringent will increase. If we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. We cannot assure you that others will not claim that our proprietary or licensed products are infringing on their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe on those intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. If someone claims that our products infringed on their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or to modify our products. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our business could be negatively impacted. The markets in which we compete are very competitive and subject to technological change, evolving standards, frequent product enhancements and introductions and changing customer requirements. A number of companies offer products and services that are similar to those offered by us and that target the same markets. In 9 Table of Contents addition, any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than us. Our competitors may develop products and services that compete with those offered by us or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with us. It also is possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share, including in new and emerging markets. If we are not able to differentiate our products and services in the market, competitive pressures may potentially impact our sales volumes, pricing structure, gross margin, operating expenses and operating income. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that current or potential competitors of X-Rite will not develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that we develop, combine or merge to form significant competitors, or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share for our products and services, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that the company may face will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We may be affected by environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations relating to discharges of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the cleanup of properties necessitated by pollutants. Any of those regulations could require us to acquire expensive equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with them. If we incur substantial additional expenses, product costs could significantly increase. Also, if we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws, rules and regulations, such failure could result in fines, suspension of production or cessation of operations. Our reliance on outsourced manufacturing presents risks to our fulfillment process. We rely on a number of strategic supply chain partners to produce key components or sub-assemblies that support our final assembly, calibration, and test process. Some of these suppliers are small companies, single sourced which may experience adverse financial conditions and therefore present risks to our fulfillment process. We depend on new product development to compete effectively. We have made large investments in new products and services. There are no assurances as to when future revenues from these products will be received, or that the ultimate profit margins received will be adequate to justify the investment. Continual development of new products, technologies, and enhancements to existing products is a core component of our long-term growth plans. Our future business, financial condition and results of operations will depend to a significant extent on our ability to develop new products and services that address these market opportunities. As a result, we believe that significant expenditures for research, development and engineering will continue to be required in the future. Product development requires a time-consuming and costly research and development process. Unexpected delays in this process may significantly affect the timing of future revenues and increase costs. We must anticipate the features and functionality that customers will demand, incorporate those features and functionality into products, price our products competitively and introduce new products to the market on a timely basis. We cannot assure you that the products we expect to introduce will incorporate the features and functionality demanded by our customers, will be successfully developed, or will be introduced within the appropriate window of market demand. If there are delays in production of current or new products, our potential future business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the time required for competitors to develop and introduce competing products may be shorter, their manufacturing yields may be better, and their production costs may be lower than those experienced by us. 10 Table of Contents Adverse general economic and industry conditions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Adverse general economic and industry conditions could lead to declines in the use of our products by our customers and a decline in sales. Many of our products are used for quality control purposes within a larger manufacturing or production process by customers who have been or may be impacted by adverse economic and market conditions. As such, our sales in some instances are linked to capital goods spending. Another economic slowdown or adverse global economic or industry conditions generally could result in a decrease in capital goods spending, sales and thereby adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, accounts receivable and past due accounts could increase due to a decline in our customers’ ability to pay as a result of adverse economic and market conditions which also could adversely affect our financial performance. We may face potential tax liabilities. We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions in the United States, Europe, Asia and elsewhere. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax liability cannot be determined with certainty at the time the transaction is entered into. Preparation of our income tax provision requires the use of judgments as to how these transactions will ultimately be taxed. We believe our tax accruals are accurate though the ultimate determination of these issues may be different from that which is reflected in our historical provision and accruals. Should these determinations be different from what is previously recorded and additional tax is assessed, those assessments would be recorded in the period in which they occur. The Company’s reliance on a small number of primary manufacturing centers may affect timely production and profitability. Manufacturing and service of much of our core color products are performed at our headquarters facility in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and in our Regensdorf, Switzerland and Carlstadt, New Jersey facilities. Should a catastrophic event occur at any of these facilities, our ability to manufacture products, complete existing orders, and provide other services could be adversely impacted for an undetermined period of time. Although we have purchased business interruption insurance to cover the costs of certain catastrophic events, there is no assurance that such insurance could be adequate to cover the losses we may incur from any such disruption or event. In addition, our inability to conduct normal business operations for a period of time could have an adverse impact on the short-term and long-term operating results. Impairment charges relating to our goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles, and long-lived assets could adversely affect our financial performance. We regularly monitor our goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles, and long-lived assets for impairment indicators using the fair value of our reporting unit and the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the long-lived assets. Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles, or long-lived assets. In the event that we determine that our goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles, or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We are involved from time to time in various legal and regulatory proceedings and claims, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings and claims from time to time that could be significant. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, including disputes with our customers, suppliers or competitors, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, tax matters and employment matters. No assurance can be given that such proceedings and claims will not adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those related to health, safety and environmental matters. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, capital markets, healthcare costs, energy usage, international trade, and immigration and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our businesses and our customers’ and suppliers’ businesses. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulations, or the application thereof. Changes in these laws or regulations, the interpretation thereof or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS—None 12 Table of Contents 