Item 1A. Risk Factors Our results from operations and ability to make distributions on our equity and to pay debt service on our indebtedness may be affected by the risk factors set forth below. All investors should consider the following risk factors before deciding to purchase our securities. Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay distributions to you. Our business is affected by the continued uncertainty in the financial and credit markets, the sluggish recovery in the global economy from the recent recession, and other market or economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy or the real estate industry as a whole. While there are signs of recovery in the U.S. economy, the recovery rate has been much slower than anticipated. Our portfolio consists primarily of office buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio); if economic conditions persist or again deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition, financial results and ability to service current debt and to pay distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected by the following, among other potential conditions: • significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries may occur, which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; • our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to complete development opportunities and refinance existing debt; • reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our development activities and increase our future interest expense; • reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; • the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits could be reduced as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits or the institutions or assets in which we have made short-term investments, the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments, increased volatility in market rates for such investments or other factors; • reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants may impair our ability to access capital; and • one or more lenders under our line of credit could refuse or be unable to fund their financing commitment to us and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all. These conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions, may continue or worsen in the future. Our performance is subject to risks associated with our properties and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently the value of our securities, are subject to the risk that if our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected. Events or conditions beyond our control that may adversely affect our operations or the value of our properties include: • downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate including increases in the unemployment rate and inflation; • competition from other office, mixed use, industrial and commercial buildings; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for office, industrial or commercial space; • changes in interest rates and availability of financing; 16 Table of Contents • vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; • increased operating costs, including insurance expense, utilities, real estate taxes, janitorial costs, state and local taxes, labor shortages and heightened security costs; • civil disturbances, earthquakes and other natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; • significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs which are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property; and • declines in the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rents from our tenants. The disruption in the debt capital markets could adversely affect us. Notwithstanding the recent improvement in capital and credit markets, these markets are still considered volatile and disruptions in these markets are still possible. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. These events have an adverse effect on the availability of credit, the terms on which credit can be sourced and the overall cost of debt capital. This could negatively affect us by: • increasing our costs to finance our ongoing operations and fund our development and redevelopment activities; • reducing the availability of potential bidders for, and the amounts offered for, any properties we may wish to sell; and • preventing us from accessing necessary debt capital on a timely basis leading us to consider potentially more dilutive capital transactions such as undesirable sales of properties or equity securities. We may suffer adverse consequences due to the financial difficulties, bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants. The current economic conditions have caused some of our tenants to experience financial difficulties. If more of our tenants were to continue to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in their business, there could be an adverse effect on our financial performance and distributions to shareholders. We cannot assure you that any tenant that files for bankruptcy protection will continue to pay us rent. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants or a lease guarantor would bar efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or lease guarantor, or its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. In addition, we cannot evict a tenant solely because of bankruptcy. The bankruptcy of a tenant or lease guarantor could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. If, however, a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general, unsecured claim for damages. Any such unsecured claim would only be paid to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of general, unsecured claims. Restrictions under the bankruptcy laws further limit the amount of any other claims that we can make if a lease is rejected. As a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of the remaining rent during the term. The terms and covenants relating to our indebtedness could adversely impact our economic performance. Like other real estate companies which incur debt, we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, such as the insufficiency of cash flow to meet required debt service payment obligations and the inability to refinance existing indebtedness. If our debt cannot be paid, refinanced or extended at maturity, we may not be able to make distributions to shareholders at expected levels or at all. Furthermore, an increase in our interest expense could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders. If we do not meet our debt service obligations, any properties securing such indebtedness could be foreclosed on, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and ability to make distributions and, depending on the number of properties foreclosed on, could threaten our continued viability. 17 Table of Contents Our Credit Facility, term loan and the indenture governing our unsecured public debt securities contain (and any new or amended facility will contain) restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt to asset ratios, secured debt to total asset ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt which we must maintain. Our ability to borrow under our credit facilities is subject to compliance with such financial and other covenants. In the event that we fail to satisfy these covenants, we would be in default under the credit facilities, the term loan and the indenture and may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under such circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. In addition, the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. If we breach covenants in our secured debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default and take possession of the property securing the defaulted loan. Increases in interest rates on variable rate indebtedness will increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders. Rising interest rates could also restrict our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amounts that third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to alter our portfolio promptly in relation to economic or other conditions. We entered into and may, from time to time, enter into agreements such as interest rate hedges, swaps, floors, caps and other interest rate hedging contracts with respect to a portion of our variable rate debt. Although these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates on us, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that we cannot enforce the agreements. Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or affect the market price of our equity shares or debt securities. Our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital expenditures, development, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes In the event that our unsecured debt is downgraded by Moody’s Investor Services or Standard & Poor’s from the current ratings, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and the market prices of our common shares and debt securities might decline. Our degree of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy in general. We may experience increased operating costs, which might reduce our profitability. Our properties are subject to increases in operating expenses such as for cleaning, electricity, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, administrative costs and other costs associated with security, landscaping and repairs and maintenance of our properties. In general, under our leases with tenants, we pass through all or a portion of these costs to them. We cannot assure you, however, that tenants will actually bear the full burden of these higher costs, or that such increased costs will not lead them, or other prospective tenants, to seek office space elsewhere. If operating expenses increase, the availability of other comparable office space in our core geographic markets might limit our ability to increase rents; if operating expenses increase without a corresponding increase in revenues, our profitability could diminish and limit our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Our investment in property development or redevelopment may be more costly or difficult to complete than we anticipate. We intend to continue to develop properties where market conditions warrant such investment. Once made, these investments may not produce results in accordance with our expectations. Risks associated with our development and construction activities include: • the unavailability of favorable financing alternatives in the private and public debt markets; • having sufficient capital to pay development costs; • unprecedented market volatility in the share price of REITs; • dependence on the financial services sector as part of our tenant base; • construction costs exceeding original estimates due to rising interest rates, diminished availability of materials and labor, and increases in the costs of materials and labor; • construction and lease-up delays resulting in increased debt service, fixed expenses and construction or renovation costs; • expenditure of funds and devotion of management’s time to projects that we do not complete; • the unavailability or scarcity of utilities; 18 Table of Contents • occupancy rates and rents at newly completed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, resulting in lower than projected rental rates and a corresponding lower return on our investment; • complications (including building moratoriums and anti-growth legislation) in obtaining necessary zoning, occupancy and other governmental permits; and • increased use restrictions by local zoning or planning authorities limiting our ability to develop and impacting the size of developments. We face risks associated with property acquisitions. We have recently acquired properties, and may in the future continue to acquire, properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that would increase our size and potentially alter our capital structure. Although we believe that the acquisitions that we have completed and that we expect to undertake in the future have, and will, enhance our future financial performance, the success of such transactions is subject to a number of factors, including the risks that: • we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms; • acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; • the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates; • acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and • we may not be able to efficiently integrate acquired properties, particularly portfolios of properties, into our organization and manage new properties in a way that allows us to realize cost savings and synergies. We acquired in the past and in the future may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in our Operating Partnership. This acquisition structure has the effect, among other factors, of reducing the amount of tax depreciation we can deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and typically requires that we agree to protect the contributors’ ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. These restrictions on dispositions could limit our ability to sell an asset or pay down partnership debt during a specified time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. Acquired properties may subject us to known and unknown liabilities. Properties that we acquire may be subject to known and unknown liabilities for which we would have no recourse, or only limited recourse, to the former owners of such properties. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of an acquired property, we might be required to pay significant sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our financial results and cash flow. Unknown liabilities relating to acquired properties could include: • liabilities for clean-up of pre-existing disclosed or undisclosed environmental contamination; • claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising on account of actions or omissions of the former owners of the properties; and • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. 19 Table of Contents We have agreed not to sell certain of our properties and to maintain indebtedness subject to guarantees. We agreed not to sell some of our properties for varying periods of time, in transactions that would trigger taxable income to the former owners, and we may enter into similar arrangements as a part of future property acquisitions. These agreements generally provide that we may dispose of the subject properties only in transactions that qualify as tax-free exchanges under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code or in other tax deferred transactions. Such transactions can be difficult to complete and can result in the property acquired in exchange for the disposed of property inheriting the tax attributes (including tax protection covenants) of the sold property. Violation of these tax protection agreements would impose significant costs on us. As a result, we are restricted with respect to decisions related to financing, encumbering, expanding or selling these properties. We have also entered into agreements that provide prior owners of properties with the right to guarantee specific amounts of indebtedness and, in the event that the specific indebtedness that they guarantee is repaid or reduced, we would be required to provide substitute indebtedness for them to guarantee. These agreements may hinder actions that we may otherwise desire to take to repay or refinance guaranteed indebtedness because we would be required to make payments to the beneficiaries of such agreements if we violate these agreements. We may be unable to renew leases or re-lease space as leases expire; certain leases may expire early. If tenants do not renew their leases upon expiration, we may be unable to re-lease the space. Even if the tenants do renew their leases or if we can re-lease the space, the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations) may be less favorable than the current lease terms. Certain leases grant the tenants an early termination right upon payment of a termination penalty or if we fail to comply with certain material lease terms. Our inability to renew or release spaces and the early termination of certain leases could affect our ability to make distributions to shareholders. We face significant competition from other real estate developers. We compete with real estate developers, operators and institutions for tenants and acquisition and development opportunities. Some of these competitors may have significantly greater financial resources than we have. Such competition may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us, may interfere with our ability to attract and retain tenants and may increase vacancies, which could result in increased supply and lower market rental rates, reducing our bargaining leverage and adversely affect our ability to improve our operating leverage. In addition, some of our competitors may be willing (e.g., because their properties may have vacancy rates higher than those for our properties) to make space available at lower rental rates or with higher tenant concession percentages than available space in our properties. We cannot assure you that this competition will not adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Property ownership through joint ventures may limit our ability to act exclusively in our interest. We develop and acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. As of December 31, 2010, we had investments in 17 unconsolidated real estate ventures. Our net investments in the 17 unconsolidated real estate ventures aggregated approximately $84.4 million as of December 31, 2010. We could become engaged in a dispute with one or more of our joint venture partners that might affect our ability to operate a jointly-owned property. Moreover, our joint venture partners may, at any time, have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives, including objectives that relate to the appropriate timing and terms of any sale or refinancing of a property. In some instances, our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. If the objectives of our joint venture partners or the lenders to our joint ventures are inconsistent with our own objectives, we may not be able to act exclusively in our interests. Furthermore, if the current constrained credit conditions in the capital markets persist or deteriorate further, the value of our investments could deteriorate and we could be required to reduce the carrying value of our equity method investments if a loss in the carrying value of the investment is other than a temporary decline pursuant to the accounting standard governing the equity method of accounting for investments in common stock. 20 Table of Contents Because real estate is illiquid, we may not be able to sell properties when appropriate. Real estate investments generally, and in particular large office and industrial/flex properties like those that we own, often cannot be sold quickly. The capitalization rates at which properties may be sold are generally higher than historic rates, thereby reducing our potential proceeds from sale. Consequently, we may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code limits our ability to sell properties that we have held for fewer than four years without potential adverse consequences to our shareholders. Furthermore, properties that we have developed and have owned for a significant period of time or that we acquired in exchange for partnership interests in our operating partnership often have a low tax basis. If we were to dispose of any of these properties in a taxable transaction, we may be required under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code applicable to REITs to distribute a significant amount of the taxable gain to our shareholders and this could, in turn, impact our cash flow. In some cases, tax protection agreements with third parties will prevent us from selling certain properties in a taxable transaction without incurring substantial costs. In addition, purchase options and rights of first refusal held by tenants or partners in joint ventures may also limit our ability to sell certain properties. All of these factors reduce our ability to respond to changes in the performance of our investments and could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders as well as the ability of someone to purchase us, even if a purchase were in our shareholders’ best interests. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance. We currently carry comprehensive “all-risk” property, and rental loss insurance and commercial general liability coverage on all of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There are, however, types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims, biological, radiological and nuclear hazards and acts of war that generally are not insured. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew insurance coverage in an adequate amount or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to earthquake, terrorist acts and mold, or, if offered, these types of insurance may be prohibitively expensive. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Such events could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders. If one or more of our insurance providers were to fail to pay a claim as a result of insolvency, bankruptcy or otherwise, the nonpayment of such claims could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if one or more of our insurance providers were to become subject to insolvency, bankruptcy or other proceedings and our insurance policies with the provider were terminated or cancelled as a result of those proceedings, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to find alternative coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In such case, we could experience a lapse in any or adequate insurance coverage with respect to one or more properties and be exposed to potential losses relating to any claims that may arise during such period of lapsed or inadequate coverage. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely impact our performance and may affect the markets on which our securities are traded. Terrorist attacks against our properties, or against the United States or our interests, may negatively impact our operations and the value of our securities. Attacks or armed conflicts could result in increased operating costs; for example, it might cost more in the future for building security, property and casualty insurance, and property maintenance. As a result of terrorist activities and other market conditions, the cost of insurance coverage for our properties could also increase. We might not be able to pass through the increased costs associated with such increased security measures and insurance to our tenants, which could reduce our profitability and cash flow. Furthermore, any terrorist attacks or armed conflicts could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Such adverse economic conditions could affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent and our cost of capital, which could have a negative impact on our results. Our ability to make distributions is subject to various risks. Historically, we have paid quarterly distributions to our shareholders. Our ability to make distributions in the future will depend upon: • the operational and financial performance of our properties; • capital expenditures with respect to existing, developed and newly acquired properties; • general and administrative costs associated with our operation as a publicly-held REIT; • the amount of, and the interest rates on, our debt; and • the absence of significant expenditures relating to environmental and other regulatory matters. 21 Table of Contents Certain of these matters are beyond our control and any significant difference between our expectations and actual results could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Changes in the law may adversely affect our cash flow. Because increases in income and service taxes are generally not passed through to tenants under leases, such increases may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make expected distributions to shareholders. Our properties are also subject to various regulatory requirements, such as those relating to the environment, fire and safety. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in the imposition of fines and damage awards and could result in a default under some of our tenant leases. Moreover, the costs to comply with any new or different regulations could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions. Although we believe that our properties are in material compliance with all such requirements, we cannot assure you that these requirements will not change or that newly imposed requirements will not require significant expenditures in order to be compliant. Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the costs to investigate and remove or remediate hazardous or toxic substances on or in our properties, often regardless of whether we know of or are responsible for the presence of these substances. These costs may be substantial. While we do maintain environmental insurance, we can not be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect us from all of the aforesaid remediation costs. Also, if hazardous or toxic substances are present on a property, or if we fail to properly remediate such substances, our ability to sell or rent the property or to borrow using that property as collateral may be adversely affected. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. Additionally, we develop, manage, lease and/or operate various properties for third parties. Consequently, we may be considered to have been or to be an operator of these properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other potential costs that could relate to hazardous or toxic substances. An earthquake or other natural disasters could adversely affect our business. Some of our properties are located in California which is a high risk geographical area for earthquakes or other natural disasters. Depending upon its magnitude, an earthquake could severely damage our properties which would adversely affect our business. We maintain earthquake insurance for our California properties and the resulting business interruption. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient if there is a major earthquake. Americans with Disabilities Act compliance could be costly. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (“ADA”) requires that all public accommodations and commercial facilities, including office buildings, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with ADA requirements could involve the removal of structural barriers from certain disabled persons’ entrances which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Other federal, state and local laws may require modifications to or restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to such accesses. Although we believe that our properties are in material compliance with present requirements, noncompliance with the ADA or similar or related laws or regulations could result in the United States government imposing fines or private litigants being awarded damages against us. In addition, changes to existing requirements or enactments of new requirements could require significant expenditures. Such costs may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders. 22 Table of Contents Our status as a REIT (or any of our REIT subsidiaries) is dependent on compliance with federal income tax requirements. If we (or any of our REIT subsidiaries) fail to qualify as a REIT, we or the affected REIT subsidiaries would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the IRS granted us or our affected REIT subsidiaries, as the case may be, relief under certain statutory provisions, we or it would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year it first failed to qualify. If we or any of our REIT subsidiaries fails to qualify as a REIT, we or they would be required to pay significant income taxes and would, therefore, have less money available for investments or for distributions to shareholders. This would likely have a material adverse effect on the value of the combined company’s securities. In addition, we or our affected REIT subsidiaries would no longer be required to make any distributions to shareholders. Failure of the Operating Partnership (or a subsidiary partnership) to be treated as a partnership would have serious adverse consequences to our shareholders. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the tax status of the Operating Partnership or any of its subsidiary partnerships for federal income tax purposes, the Operating Partnership or the affected subsidiary partnership would be taxable as a corporation. In such event we would cease to qualify as a REIT and the imposition of a corporate tax on the Operating Partnership or a subsidiary partnership would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution from the Operating Partnership to us and ultimately to our shareholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and properties. In addition, our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on their net taxable income derived from management, leasing and related service business. If we have net income from a prohibited transaction, such income will be subject to a 100% tax. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We operate our business to qualify to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not binding on the IRS or any court. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on the income that we distribute currently to our shareholders. Many of the REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, such as rent, that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. In addition, to qualify as a REIT, we cannot own specified amounts of debt and equity securities of some issuers. We also are required to distribute to our shareholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gains). The fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements for us. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status and, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs and the ongoing importance of factual determinations, we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to qualify as a REIT. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the statutory savings provisions in order to maintain our REIT status, we would nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and are unable to avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the Internal Revenue Code, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on all of our income. As a taxable corporation, we would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income or pass through long term capital gains to individual shareholders at favorable rates. We also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes. We would not be able to elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years following the year we first failed to qualify unless the IRS were to grant us relief under certain statutory provisions. If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes, which would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to our shareholders. This likely would have a significant adverse effect on our earnings and likely would adversely affect the value of our securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to pay any distributions to shareholders. Failure of the Operating Partnership (or a subsidiary partnership) to be treated as a partnership would have serious adverse consequences to our shareholders. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the tax status of the Operating Partnership or any of its subsidiary partnerships for federal income tax purposes, the Operating Partnership or the affected subsidiary partnership would be taxable as a corporation. In such event we would cease to qualify as a REIT and the imposition of a corporate tax on the Operating Partnership or a subsidiary partnership would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution from the Operating Partnership to us and ultimately to our shareholders. 23 Table of Contents To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short term basis during unfavorable market conditions. As a REIT, we are subject to certain distribution requirements, including the requirement to distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income, that may result in our having to make distributions at disadvantageous time or to borrow funds at unfavorable rates. Compliance with this requirement may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. We will pay some taxes even if we qualify as a REIT, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, we will be subject to income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including capital gains. Additionally, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which dividends paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Moreover, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. We cannot guarantee that sales of our properties would not be prohibited transactions unless we comply with certain statutory safe-harbor provisions. In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or through entities that are disregarded for federal income tax purposes as entities separate from our taxable REIT subsidiaries, will be subject to federal and possibly state corporate income tax. In this regard, several provisions of the laws applicable to REITs and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct certain interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives or on some deductions taken by a taxable REIT subsidiary if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s customers, and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT we are not subject to federal income tax on that income because not all states and localities follow the federal income tax treatment of REITs. To the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our shareholders. We face possible federal, state and local tax audits. Because we are organized and qualify as a REIT, we are generally not subject to federal income taxes, but are subject to certain state and local taxes. Certain entities through which we own real estate either have undergone, or are currently undergoing, tax audits. Although we believe that we have substantial arguments in favor of our positions in the ongoing audits, in some instances there is no controlling precedent or interpretive guidance on the specific point at issue. There can be no assurance that these or future audits will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Operating Partnership has been audited by the Internal Revenue Service for its 2004 tax year. The audit concerns the tax treatment of a transaction in September 2004 in which we acquired a portfolio of properties through the acquisition of a limited partnership. On December 17, 2010, the IRS proposed an adjustment to the allocation of recourse liabilities allocated to the contributor of the properties. The Operating Partnership intends to appeal the proposed adjustment. The proposed adjustment, if upheld, would not result in a material tax liability for us. However, an adjustment could raise a question as to whether a contributor of partnership interests in the 2004 transaction could assert a claim against us under the tax protection agreement entered into as part of the transaction. Competition for skilled personnel could increase labor costs. We compete with various other companies in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our company. Competitive pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel. We may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the rates we charge our tenants. If there is an increase in these costs or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our business and operating results could be harmed. We are dependent upon our key personnel. We are dependent upon our key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We are dependent on our executive officers for strategic business direction and real estate experience. Loss of their services could adversely affect our operations. 24 Table of Contents Although we have an employment agreement with Gerard H. Sweeney, our President and Chief Executive Officer, this agreement does not restrict his ability to become employed by a competitor following the termination of his employment. We do not have key man life insurance coverage on our executive officers. Certain limitations will exist with respect to a third party’s ability to acquire us or effectuate a change in control. Limitations imposed to protect our REIT status. In order to protect us against the loss of our REIT status, our Declaration of Trust limits any shareholder from owning more than 9.8% in value of our outstanding shares, subject to certain exceptions. The ownership limit may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us. If anyone acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit, we may: • consider the transfer to be null and void; • not reflect the transaction on our books; • institute legal action to stop the transaction; • not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; • not recognize any voting rights for those shares; and • consider the shares held in trust for the benefit of a person to whom such shares may be transferred. Limitation due to our ability to issue preferred shares. Our Declaration of Trust authorizes our Board of Trustees to cause us to issue preferred shares, without limitation as to amount and without shareholder consent. Our Board of Trustees is able to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued and these shares could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders’ best interests. Limitation imposed by the Maryland Business Combination Law. The Maryland General Corporation Law, as applicable to Maryland REITs, establishes special restrictions against “business combinations” between a Maryland REIT and “interested shareholders” or their affiliates unless an exemption is applicable. An interested shareholder includes a person, who beneficially owns, and an affiliate or associate of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of, ten percent or more of the voting power of our then-outstanding voting shares. Among other things, Maryland law prohibits (for a period of five years) a merger and certain other transactions between a Maryland REIT and an interested shareholder unless the board of trustees had approved the transaction before the party became an interested shareholder. The five-year period runs from the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. Thereafter, any such business combination must be recommended by the board of trustees and approved by two super-majority shareholder votes unless, among other conditions, the common shareholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for our shares or unless the board of trustees approved the transaction before the party in question became an interested shareholder. The business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if the acquisition would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Maryland law provides that “control shares” of a REIT acquired in a “control share acquisition” shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the vote eligible to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. “Control Shares” means shares that, if aggregated with all other shares previously acquired by the acquirer or in respect of which the acquirer is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing trustees within one of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority or a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained shareholder approval. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions. If voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a shareholder’s meeting, then subject to certain conditions and limitations the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a shareholder’s meeting and the acquirer becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares entitled to vote, all other shareholders may exercise appraisal rights. Any control shares acquired in a control share acquisition which are not exempt under our Bylaws are subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Our Bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares. We cannot assure you that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. 25 Table of Contents Advance Notice Provisions for Shareholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws require advance notice for shareholders to nominate persons for election as trustees at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of our shareholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of shareholders to make nominations of persons for election as trustees or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. Many factors can have an adverse effect on the market value of our securities. A number of factors might adversely affect the price of our securities, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • increases in market interest rates, relative to the dividend yield on our shares. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of our securities may require a higher yield. Higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common shares to go down; • anticipated benefit of an investment in our securities as compared to investment in securities of companies in other industries (including benefits associated with tax treatment of dividends and distributions); • perception by market professionals of REITs generally and REITs comparable to us in particular; • level of institutional investor interest in our securities; • relatively low trading volumes in securities of REITs; • our results of operations and financial condition; and • investor confidence in the stock market generally. The market value of our common shares is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions. Consequently, our common shares may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per common share. If our future earnings or cash distributions are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common shares will diminish. Additional issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to shareholders. The interests of our shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future developments or acquisitions or to repay indebtedness. Our Board of Trustees may authorize the issuance of additional equity securities without shareholder approval. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including the issuance of common and preferred equity. The issuance of preferred securities may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common shares. Because our Board of Trustees has the power to establish the preferences and rights of each class or series of preferred shares, we may afford the holders in any series or class of preferred shares preferences, distributions, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, senior to the rights of holders of common shares. Our Board of Trustees also has the power to establish the preferences and rights of each class or series of units in Brandywine Operating Partnership, and may afford the holders in any series or class of preferred units preferences, distributions, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, senior to the rights of holders of common units. The acquisition of new properties or the development of new properties which lack operating history with us may give rise to difficulties in predicting revenue potential. We may continue to acquire additional properties and may seek to develop our existing land holdings strategically as warranted by market conditions. These acquisitions and developments could fail to perform in accordance with expectations. If we fail to accurately estimate occupancy levels, operating costs or costs of improvements to bring an acquired property or a development property up to the standards established for our intended market position, the performance of the property may be below expectations. Acquired properties may have characteristics or deficiencies affecting their valuation or revenue potential that we have not yet discovered. We cannot assure you that the performance of properties acquired or developed by us will increase or be maintained under our management. 26 Table of Contents Our performance is dependent upon the economic conditions of the markets in which our properties are located. Our properties are located in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Texas, and California. Like other real estate markets, these commercial real estate markets have been impacted by the sluggish economic recovery from the recent recession, and any adverse changes in economic conditions in the future in any of these economies or real estate markets could negatively affect cash available for distribution. Our financial performance and ability to make distributions to our shareholders will be particularly sensitive to the economic conditions in these markets. The local economic climate, which may be adversely impacted by business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors, and local real estate conditions, such as oversupply of or reduced demand for office, industrial and other competing commercial properties, may affect revenues and the value of properties, including properties to be acquired or developed. We cannot assure you that these local economies will grow in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 