ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS There are many risk factors that may adversely affect the Company’s operating results; risk factors that X-Rite deems critical include the following: • Vertical Integration - The Company’s manufacturing processes are vertically integrated. Therefore, it is critical to efficiently manage the cost structure for capital expenditures, materials and overhead, as well as operating expenses such as wages and benefits. • Intellectual Property Rights – The Company has made significant expenditures to develop and acquire technology and intellectual property rights. X-Rite actively patents and trademarks these properties whenever possible and will vigorously defend them against infringement. The Company’s failure to protect its intellectual property could seriously harm its business and prospects, as the Company believes that developing new products and technologies that are unique is critical to its success. X-Rite will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending it’s intellectual propriety rights. The Company does not know whether it will obtain the patent protection it seeks, or that the protection it does obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. The Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property through patents, trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures may not be adequate to protect its proprietary rights. Patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of X-Rite’s filings, could render X-Rite’s intellectual property less valuable. Disputes may arise as to ownership of X-Rite’s intellectual property or as to whether products designed by its competitors infringe upon its intellectual property rights. Employees, consultants and others who participate in developing X-Rite products may breach their agreements with the Company regarding intellectual property, and X-Rite may not have adequate remedies for the breach. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also capture market share from X-Rite by designing products that mirror the capabilities of X-Rite products or technology without infringing on X-Rite’s intellectual property rights. In addition, as sales of X-Rite products continue to grow internationally, the Company’s exposure to intellectual property infringements in countries where intellectual property rights protections are less stringent will increase. If the Company does not obtain sufficient international protection for its intellectual property, its competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which would limit its growth and future revenue. • Intellectual Property Litigation and Infringement Claims - A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against X-Rite could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability, in some cases materially. There can be no assurance that others will not claim that X-Rite’s proprietary or licensed products are infringing their intellectual property rights or that X-Rite does not in fact infringe those intellectual property rights. From time to time, the Company receives notices from third parties of potential infringement and receives claims of potential infringement. The Company may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its technology. If someone claims that X-Rite products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require the Company to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, X-Rite may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. X-Rite also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing the Company from manufacturing, selling or using some products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on X-Rite’s business, financial condition and results of operations. • New Products and Services – The Company has made large investments in new products and services. There are no assurances as to when future revenues from these products will be received, or that the ultimate profit margins received will be adequate to justify the investment. Continual development of new products and technologies as well as enhancements to existing products is a core component of the Company’s long-term growth plans. X-Rite’s future business, financial condition and results of operations will depend to a significant extent on its ability to develop new products that address these market opportunities. As a result, the Company believes that significant expenditures for research and development will continue to be required in the future. Product development requires a time-consuming and costly research and development process. Unexpected delays in this process may significantly affect the timing of future revenues and increase costs. The Company must anticipate the features and functionality that customers will demand, incorporate those features and functionality into products, price products competitively, and introduce new products to the market on a timely 7 Table of Contents basis. The Company cannot assure that the products it expects to introduce will incorporate the features and functionality demanded by customers, will be successfully developed, or will be introduced within the appropriate window of market demand. If there are delays in production of current or new products, the Company’s potential future business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the time required for competitors to develop and introduce competing products may be shorter, their manufacturing yields may be better, and their production costs may be lower than those experienced by X-Rite. • Timely Product Delivery – Continual development of new products and technologies as well as enhancements to existing products is a core component of the Company’s long-term growth plans. Product development requires a time-consuming and costly research and development process. Unexpected delays in this process may significantly affect the timing of future revenues and increase costs. • General Economic Conditions – Many of X-Rite’s products are used for quality control purposes within a larger manufacturing or production process. As such, the Company’s sales, in some instances, are linked to capital goods spending. Should there be a prolonged slowdown in capital goods spending or changes in global economic conditions, revenues and profitability could be noticeably impacted. • Competition – The businesses in which X-Rite competes are very competitive and subject to technological change, evolving standards, frequent product enhancements and introductions, and changing customer requirements. Many of the Company’s current and potential competitors have (1) longer operating histories, (2) significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, (3) greater name recognition, and (4) a larger installed customer base than X-Rite. A number of companies offer products and services that are similar to those offered by X-Rite and that target the same markets. In addition, any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than the Company. The Company’s competitors may develop products and services that compete with those offered by X-Rite, or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with X-Rite. It also is possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share, including in new and emerging markets. If the Company is not able to differentiate its products and services in the market then competitive pressures may potentially impact its sales volumes, pricing structure, gross margin, operating expenses and operating income. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that current or potential competitors of X-Rite will not develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that the company develops, combine or merge to form significant competitors, or adapt more quickly than will the company to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share for X-Rite products and services, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that the company may face will not materially adversely affect its business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. • Potential Tax Liabilities – The Company is subject to taxation in many jurisdictions in the United States, Europe, and Asia. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax liability cannot be determined with certainty. Preparation of the Company’s income tax provision requires the use of judgments as to how these transactions will be ultimately taxed. The Company believes its tax accruals are accurate, though the ultimate determination of these issues may be different from that which is reflected in X-Rite’s historical provision and accruals. Should these determinations be different from what is previously recorded and additional tax is assessed, those assessments would be recorded in the period in which they occur. • Business Disruptions – Manufacturing and service of much of X-Rite’s core color products are performed at the Company’s headquarters facility in the United States. Should a catastrophic event occur at that facility, the Company’s ability to manufacture product, complete exist orders, and provide other services would be severely impacted for an undetermined period of time. The Company has purchased business interruption insurance to cover the costs of an event of this magnitude. The Company’s inability to conduct normal business operations for a period of time may have an adverse impact on long-term operating results. • Attraction and Retention of Qualified Personnel - X-Rite’s ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and pursue its strategic objectives depends on the continued services of current management, sales, product development and technical personnel and the Company’s ability to identify, attract, train and retain similar personnel. Competition for top management personnel is intense and the Company may not be 8 Table of Contents able to recruit and retain the personnel needed if it is unable to offer competitive salaries and benefits, or if its stock does not perform well. The loss of any one of its management personnel, or its inability to identify, attract, train, retain and integrate additional qualified management personnel, could make it difficult for the Company to manage its business successfully and pursue its strategic objectives. The Company does not carry key person life insurance on any of its employees. Similarly, competition for skilled sales, product development and technical personnel is intense and the Company may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel needed. The loss of the services of key sales, product development and technical personnel, or the Company’s inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict its ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products to its customers or manage its business effectively. • Environmental Laws and Regulations - X-Rite is subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations relating to discharges of substances in the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the cleanup of properties necessitated by pollutants. Any of those regulations could require the Company to acquire expensive equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with them. If the Company incurs substantial additional expenses, product costs could significantly increase. Also, it fails to comply with present or future environmental laws, rules and regulations, such failure could result in fines, suspension of production or cessation of operations. • Currency Fluctuations – The Company’s international presence continues to grow. With this growth is the requirement to conduct business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As these currencies fluctuate against the dollar they may reduce the profitability of X-Rite’s products sold in those currencies or causes them to be non-competitive in the market. Additionally, currency fluctuations may negatively impact the costs of conducting business in certain locations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - None 9 Table of Contents 