Item 1A Risk Factors 7 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 12 Item 2 Properties 13 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 14 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 14 Supplementary Item—Executive Officers of the Company 14 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 15 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 17 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 33 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 71 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 71 Item 9B Other Information 71 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 72 Item 11 Executive Compensation 72 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 73 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 73 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 73 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 74 Signatures 75 Exhibit Index 77 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS X-Rite, Incorporated (X-Rite, the Company, our, we, or us) is a global leader in color science and color technology. The Company develops, manufactures, markets and supports innovative color solutions through measurement instrumentation systems, software, color standards and services, as described below in the product overview section. X-Rite’s expertise in inspiring, selecting, measuring, formulating, communicating and matching color helps users get color right the first time and every time, which translates to better quality and reduced costs. X-Rite serves a range of markets including printing, packaging, photography, graphic design, video, automotive, paints, plastics, and textiles. We serve these markets through our core product lines of Imaging and Media, Industrial, Standards, Support Services, and Retail. A more detailed discussion of our major markets and product line offerings appears below. Products are sold worldwide through the Company’s own sales personnel and independent sales representatives and dealers. The Company is headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan and has other domestic operations in New Jersey, North Carolina, and Massachusetts. In addition, the Company has locations in Switzerland, Germany, England, France, Italy, Spain, the Czech Republic, Russia, India, China, Hong Kong, and Japan. Manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Switzerland, and Germany. X-Rite was organized in 1958 as a Michigan corporation and completed its initial public offering of common stock in April of 1986. Historically, the Company has grown organically through investment in new products and our existing business and in more recent years our growth has been driven by investing in international expansion and strategic acquisitions. • Product Innovation Product innovation is a key success factor to our ability to remain competitive in the color management industry. In 2011, we introduced eight new products and two major product upgrades. We also devoted resources to developing customer-specific solutions for seven of our customers. In 2011, we spent approximately ten percent of our revenues on engineering, research, and development. Our focus continues to center on color management solutions that incorporate software, hardware, standards, and services. • International Growth With offices in twelve countries outside the U.S. and service centers across Europe, Asia, and the Americas, we continue to expand our ability to conduct business with customers around the world. The Company began to accelerate its global presence in 1993 with the establishment of sales and service subsidiaries in several locations throughout Europe and Asia. In 2006 and 2007, we expanded our global presence even further through the acquisitions of Amazys Holding AG (Amazys) and Pantone Inc. (Pantone), respectively. In 2011, 2010, and 2009 sales outside the United States represented 68.6, 66.9, and 64.7 percent of total revenue, respectively. • Amazys Holding AG Acquisition We completed the acquisition of Amazys in 2006 for $306.7 million. With significant international operations, including its headquarters in Switzerland, Amazys developed, marketed, and supported hardware, software, and services to measure and communicate color for the imaging and media, photography, digital imaging, plastics, apparel, textiles, and automotive industries. Prior to the acquisition, Amazys was X-Rite’s largest direct competitor. Subsequent to the acquisition of Amazys, X-Rite became the leader in the color management industry, and we established our European headquarters in Regensdorf, Switzerland. 1 Table of Contents • Pantone, Inc. Acquisition We completed the acquisition of Pantone in 2007 for $175.9 million. The Pantone product offerings were and continue to be a leader in color inspiration, communication and specification standards in the creative design industries. The Pantone products represent a key color standard in the graphic arts, printing, publishing and advertising industries. Pantone also provides color standards and design tools for the fashion, home furnishings, architecture, paint, industrial design, and interior design industries. With the addition of the Pantone business, X-Rite was able to expand the global reach and breadth of its product offerings into new industries and established significant international recognition by incorporating the Pantone trade name into the X-Rite corporate brand. In connection with the completion of the aforementioned acquisitions, the Company initiated a series of operational and organizational restructuring necessary to realign the Company, realize operational synergies of the acquisitions, and continue to remain competitive across all facets of the color management industry. While the need for these initiatives was clearly identified, the timing became critical in lieu of the global economic downturn that ensued in 2008. From the onset of the restructuring activities in 2006 through the end of 2010, the Company incurred approximately $28.7 million in restructuring charges. These charges relate to the synergies realized as part of our acquisitions and integration, cost containment actions taken as a result of the global economic downturn, and other actions to align our global entity and tax structure. These restructuring activities were completed in 2010. The debt load incurred as a result of the acquisitions coupled with the economic downturn resulted in the Company experiencing covenant defaults on its credit facilities and it was required to complete a Corporate Recapitalization Plan in 2008. Under this plan, the Company raised $155 million in capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock. Subsequently, in the fall of 2009, the Company entered into an exchange agreement to effectively convert $41.6 million of its outstanding second lien term loan for 41,561 newly issued Series A Preferred Stock (mandatorily redeemable preferred stock or MRPS) with a stated value of $1,000 and the issuance of warrants to acquire 7.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share. With improved results from the global economic improvement, cost reductions, and completion of the restructurings, in the fall of 2010, the Company extinguished the second lien credit agreement with cash on hand of $9.9 million and borrowings under the first lien revolving credit facility of $16.5 million. As the condition of the global economy began to improve throughout 2010, the Company started to realize the benefits of the restructuring activities discussed above. With this improved operating performance, the Company was able to complete a debt refinancing in the first quarter of 2011, whereby the Company paid off the existing MRPS and remaining first lien debt with a single new senior secured credit facility. As a result of these debt reductions, total interest expense decreased by 55.7 percent from 2010 to 2011 and by 16.5 percent from 2009 to 2010. PRODUCT OVERVIEW Measurement Instrumentation • Colorimeters measure light much like the human eye using red, green and blue receptors and are utilized to measure printed colors on packages, labels, textiles and other materials where a product’s appearance is critical for buyer acceptance. • Spectrophotometers offer more precision than colorimeters; they measure light at more points over the entire visible spectrum. The increased precision of spectrophotometers make them useful in predicting color formulation for many types of materials such as plastics, paints, inks, ceramics and metals. The Company offers different optical geometries of spectrophotometers as well as application types from bench-top models, to portables to non-contact versions. Each variation provides specific benefits for the wide variety of markets served, whether it is a portable multi-angle for an automotive paint or a bench-top sphere geometry for a textile application or a non-contact single angle spectrophotometer for cosmetics, the specific device and accompanying software provide solutions for management of color and appearance in almost any application where color is found. 2 Table of Contents • Densitometers are instruments that measure optical or photographic density, compare such measurement to a reference standard, and signal the result to the operator of the instrument. Some models are designed for use in controlling variables in the processing of x-ray film in medical and non-destructive testing applications. Other models are designed to be used to control process variables in the production of photo-transparencies, such as photographic film and microfilm, or measure the amount of light that is reflected from a surface, such as ink on paper. • Spectrodensitometers combine the function of a densitometer with the functions of a colorimeter and a spectrophotometer to provide measurements for monitoring color reproduction used for controlling the color of printed inks in graphic arts applications. • Sensitometers are used to expose various types of photographic film in a very precise manner for comparison to a reference standard. The exposed film is processed and then “read” with a densitometer to determine the extent of variation from the standard. Software The Company provides software and databases that interface with its color measurement instruments and other process equipment. These software packages allow the user to collect and store color measurement data, compare that data to established standards and databases, communicate color results and formulate colors from a database. Standards Products The Standards product line embodies products for the accurate communication and reproduction of color, digitally or in print. These products establish color standardization and are used by customers worldwide in a variety of industries including imaging and media, textiles, digital technology, plastics, paint, medical, and food. Support Services Support Services provides customers access to color professional specialists, training, and technical support worldwide through color seminars, classroom workshops, on-site consulting, and interactive media development. Support Services additionally provides service repair operations that specialize in repairing all X-Rite equipment. MAJOR MARKETS AND PRODUCT LINES As noted above, the Company operates across a broad spectrum of markets including printing, packaging, photography, graphic design, video, automotive, paints, plastics, textiles and medical. These markets are generally categorized to align with our core product line offerings as outlined below. A key to the Company’s success is our ability to integrate our products and solutions across the various industries of a product life cycle to improve the color management process from the inception of a design, through the manufacturing process and end user experience. Imaging and Media The Imaging and Media product line consists of Digital Imaging and Printing. The Imaging and Media product lines provide solutions for commercial and package printing applications, digital printing and photo processing, photographic, graphic design and pre-press service bureaus in the imaging industries. The Digital Imaging product line consists of solutions for graphic designers, photo processing, photography, graphic design, pre-press service bureaus, and a myriad of calibration tools for image setters, raster image processors, and other digital applications. Our color management systems give designers control of scanned artwork, images captured with a digital camera, desktop printers, high-end proofers and commercial presses that translate color from one device to the next. These solutions work to create value at key stages of the workflow by reducing waste, increasing productivity and enhancing quality. 3 Table of Contents The Printing product line supports both digital and traditional printing. X-Rite’s color-calibrated instruments, digital palettes, and output measurement devices support color communication for the entire printing and preprinting process, reducing set up time and eliminating the opportunity for costly mistakes. Our handheld products are straightforward, self-contained solutions that keep color on-target in the pre-press process, ink lab and pressroom. X-Rite’s automated scanning systems support the need for faster and more frequent color data collection. Industrial Our Industrial product line is concentrated in the quality and process control markets. We design, develop, and manufacture precision instrumentation, software, and systems for global manufacturers, fulfilling a need to measure color for formulation, quality, and process control for paint, plastics, and textiles. Accurate color reproduction and global supply chain management offer these manufacturers and businesses a competitive advantage, and are important factors to streamline process development when products are assembled from parts made around the world. X-Rite’s industrial product solutions are designed to reduce waste, increase production uptime, improve process management, and enable global color communication. Standards The Standards product line includes products for the accurate communication and reproduction of color, servicing worldwide customers in a variety of industries including imaging and media, textiles, digital technology, plastics and paint. The Pantone products represent a key color standard in the home fashion and design industries, serving the graphic arts, printing, publishing, advertising, paint, and textiles markets. The Standards product line also embodies the Munsell Color System, which is a scientifically based color order system that is used to define color based on the three attributes of color: hue, value, and chroma. Support Services Our Support Services market provides customers access to color professional specialists, training, and technical support worldwide through color seminars, classroom workshops, on-site consulting, and interactive media development. Our Support Services business provides both major manufacturers and end users with comprehensive solutions for their color and workflow problems. Support Services additionally operates and manages the Company’s service repair operation with facilities around the world and specializes in repairing all X-Rite equipment. The products repaired by the service department include products currently covered by our warranty program as well as those products which are out of warranty. Retail X-Rite’s Retail product line consists of our paint matching technology. The paint matching market is conducted under the name of MatchRite. X-Rite is a leading supplier of retail paint matching systems for home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores and paint retailers in North America, and has established a strong presence in Europe and other regions of the world. X-Rite’s Retail customers rely on its strength in color measurement instrumentation, database creation and management, custom software development, and large scale account servicing. These solution-based products reduce paint inventory for the retailer and provide a user-friendly environment for sophisticated shade matching capabilities to the consumer. OTHER INFORMATION Manufacturing, Sourcing, and Service We manufacture the majority of our products at our facilities in the United States and Switzerland. We generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies and components but also have some materials that are single sourced. These consist primarily of electrical and molded plastic components that are generally widely 4 Table of Contents available in the market. We rely on a number of strategic supply chain partners to produce key components or sub-assemblies that support our final assembly, calibration, and test process as well as our finished products. Product repair and service is provided at eleven locations throughout the world. Competition Our business is competitive and subject to technological change, evolving customer requirements, and changing business models. We face strong competition in many areas of our current business activities. The rapid pace of technological change creates new opportunities for both our existing competitors as well as start-ups. Moreover, the rise of new industry alliances, and mergers and acquisitions can dramatically change our competitive landscape and can result in competitors with significant resources in research and development, marketing and sales. Further, customer requirements change quickly as a result of new and more cost efficient technologies. The primary base of competition for all the Company’s products is technology and intellectual property, design, service, and price. Our competitive position may be adversely affected in the future by one or more of the factors described in this section. The markets we serve are highly competitive and fragmented. We face direct competition from approximately eleven firms which are producing competing products in the Imaging and Media category, approximately nine manufacturers of competing products in the Retail and Industrial markets, and approximately four distributors in the Standards industry; some of whom have significant access to resources. While no single company competes with us in all of our markets and product lines, various companies compete with us in one or more of our markets and product lines. Some of these competitors may have substantially greater sales and assets than we do. Employees As of December 31, 2011, the Company employed 747 people on a full time basis, of which 478 were in the United States. We believe we have generally good relationships with our employees. Patents As of December 31, 2011, X-Rite owned 187 patents and had 67 patent applications on file. While the Company follows a policy of obtaining patent protection for its products where appropriate, it does not believe that the loss of any existing patent, or failure to obtain any new patents, would have a material adverse impact on its current operations. We expect to protect our products and technology by asserting our intellectual property rights where appropriate and prudent. Distribution Networks The Company’s products are sold by its own sales personnel and through independent manufacturer’s representatives. A portion of the Company’s products not sold directly to end-users are distributed through a network of independent dealers throughout Europe, Asia Pacific and the Americas. Seasonality The Company’s business is generally not subject to seasonal variations that significantly impact sales, production, or net income. Significant Customers During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company did not have any customers that individually accounted for greater than 10 percent of consolidated net sales. 5 Table of Contents Backlog The Company’s estimated backlog of scheduled but unshipped orders was $20.8 million as of January 30, 2012 and $20.9 million as of January 29, 2011. This backlog is expected to be utilized during the current fiscal year. Orders in backlog are subject to change or cancellation by our customers. Research, Development and Engineering During 2011, 2010, and 2009, the Company expensed $23.2, $23.7, and $22.6 million, respectively, on research, development, and engineering. In addition to the research, development, and engineering costs reported as operating expenses, certain costs to develop new software products were capitalized in each of the last three years. Software development costs capitalized totaled $7.3, $6.5, and $4.4 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The related amortization expense was included in cost of sales as discussed in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this report. Financial Information About Segments and Geographic Areas We operate and generate revenue as one segment in the color management industry. For further discussion of our segment reporting, see “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Report. We operate in the geographic areas described above under Item 1, “Business.” For additional information regarding our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area, see “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Report. For information regarding risks relating to our foreign operations, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Report. Regulatory and Environmental Matters We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations that govern activities that may have adverse environmental effects and which impose liability for compliance and clean-up costs resulting for the discharge, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes and substances. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Availability of Information X-Rite’s internet website is www.xrite.com. X-Rite’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on our website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS There are many risk factors that may adversely affect the Company’s operating results, including the following significant risks. See also “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” located herein at Item 8 for additional risks that may affect the Company. Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, geographic, regulatory and other specific risks associated with international operations. During 2011, we derived approximately 68.6 percent of our total revenues from sales of our products outside of the United States, compared with 66.9 and 64.7 percent during 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our foreign generated revenues were denominated in Swiss Francs, Euros, British Pound Sterling, Chinese Yuan, and Japanese Yen. The United States dollar value of our foreign generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities. We currently have minimal hedging or similar foreign currency contracts to mitigate the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely impact the profitability of our foreign operations. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. There can be no assurance that we will maintain or expand our international sales. If the revenues generated from international activities, especially in emerging markets, are inadequate to offset the expense of maintaining such international operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The increasingly international reach of our businesses could also subject us and our results of operations to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing economic and political conditions. Specifically, international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • lack of experience in a particular geographic market; • tariffs and other barriers, including import and export requirements, taxes on subsidiary operations and investment restrictions or requirements; • different and changing regulatory requirements in various countries and regions; • fluctuating exchange rates and currency controls; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and support operations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including repatriation of earnings; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside the U.S.; • lack of acceptance of localized products or X-Rite in foreign countries; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • labor force instability, including possible shortages of skilled personnel required for local operations; • exposure to local economic conditions; and • political, economic, and civil instability, such as perceived or actual public health, terrorist risks, violence, civil unrest, or outbreaks of war which impact a geographic region and business operations therein. As we expand our international operations, we may encounter new risks. For example, as we focus on building our international sales and distribution networks in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing these relationships, we may not be able to grow sales in these geographic regions. 7 Table of Contents Our debt level and the inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding borrowings of $149.8 million under its senior secured credit facility. This amount of debt will require significant interest and principal payments. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our credit facility could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our debt level may adversely affect our future performance, because, among other things: • We may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors, some of which have lower fixed payment obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • Our ability to complete future acquisitions may be limited; • We will have to use a portion of our cash flow for debt service rather than for investment in research and development and capital expenditures; • We may not be able to obtain further debt financing and/or we may have to pay more for such additional financing as we are able to obtain; • We may not be able to take advantage of business opportunities; and • We will be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. The senior credit facility contains certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to create liens, incur indebtedness, make certain investments or acquisitions, pay dividends, repurchase shares, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, incur capital expenditures beyond prescribed limits and that require us to deliver certain reports and information, and meet certain financial ratios. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access the capital markets to obtain future debt or equity financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all in connection with the repayment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or satisfy our payment obligations, these obligations could be accelerated, thereby causing our business, financial condition, and results of operations to be materially adversely affected. We may face potential tax liabilities. We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions in the United States, Europe, Asia and elsewhere. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax liability cannot be determined with certainty at the time the transaction is entered into. Preparation of our income tax provision requires the use of judgments as to how these transactions will ultimately be taxed. We believe our tax accruals are accurate though the ultimate determination of these issues may be different from that which is reflected in our historical provision and accruals. Should these determinations be different from what was previously recorded and additional tax is assessed, those assessments would be recorded in the period in which they occur. The Company’s reliance on a small number of primary manufacturing centers may affect timely production and profitability. Manufacturing and service of much of our core color products are performed at our facility in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and in our Regensdorf, Switzerland and Carlstadt, New Jersey facilities. Should a catastrophic event occur at any of these facilities, our ability to manufacture products, complete existing orders, and provide other services could be adversely impacted for an undetermined period of time. Although we have purchased business interruption insurance to cover the costs of certain catastrophic events, there is no assurance that such insurance could be adequate to cover the losses we may incur from any such disruption or event. In addition, our inability to conduct normal business operations for a period of time could have an adverse impact on the short-term and long-term operating results. 8 Table of Contents Our reliance on outsourced manufacturing presents risks to our fulfillment process. We rely on a number of strategic supply chain partners to produce key components or sub-assemblies that support our final assembly, calibration, and test process. Some of these suppliers are single sourced small companies which may experience adverse financial conditions and therefore present risks to our fulfillment process. We depend on new product development to compete effectively. We have made large investments in new products and services. There are no assurances as to when future revenues from these products will be received, or that the ultimate profit margins received will be adequate to justify the investment. Continual development of new products, technologies, and enhancements to existing products is a core component of our long-term growth plans. Our future business, financial condition and results of operations will depend to a significant extent on our ability to develop new products and services that address these market opportunities. As a result, we believe that significant expenditures for research, development and engineering will continue to be required in the future. Product development requires a time-consuming and costly research and development process. Unexpected delays in this process may significantly affect the timing of future revenues and increase costs. We must anticipate the features and functionality that customers will demand, incorporate those features and functionality into products, price our products competitively and introduce new products to the market on a timely basis. We cannot assure you that the products we expect to introduce will incorporate the features and functionality demanded by our customers, will be successfully developed, or will be introduced within the appropriate window of market demand. If there are delays in production of current or new products, our potential future business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the time required for competitors to develop and introduce competing products may be shorter, their manufacturing yields may be better, and their production costs may be lower than those experienced by us. Adverse general economic and industry conditions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Adverse general economic and industry conditions could lead to declines in the use of our products by our customers and a decline in sales. Many of our products are used for quality control purposes within a larger manufacturing or production process by customers who have been or may be impacted by adverse economic and market conditions. As such, our sales in some instances are linked to capital goods spending. Another economic slowdown or adverse global economic or industry conditions generally could result in a decrease in capital goods spending or sales and thereby adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, accounts receivable and past due accounts could increase due to a decline in our customers’ ability to pay as a result of adverse economic and market conditions which also could adversely affect our financial performance. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to design, develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business. Our operations and the development of new products require expertise. In addition, our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and pursue our strategic objectives depends on the continued services of our current management, sales, product development and technical personnel and our ability to identify, attract, train and retain similar personnel. Competition for top management personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need if we are unable to offer competitive compensation and benefits. The loss of any one of our management personnel, or our inability to identify, attract, train, retain and integrate additional qualified management personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and pursue our strategic objectives. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. Similarly, competition for skilled sales, product development and technical personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of the services of key sales, product development 9 Table of Contents and technical personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products to our customers or manage our business effectively. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. We have made significant expenditures to develop and acquire technology and intellectual property rights. We actively patent and trademark these properties when deemed appropriate and will vigorously defend them against infringement. Our failure to protect our intellectual property could seriously harm our business and prospects because developing new products and technologies is critical to our success. We will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our intellectual propriety rights. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Patent filings by third parties could render our intellectual property less valuable. Disputes may arise as to ownership of our intellectual property or as to whether products designed by our competitors infringe our intellectual property rights. Employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also capture market share from us by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing on our intellectual property rights. In addition, as sales of our products continue to grow internationally, our exposure to intellectual property infringements in countries where intellectual property rights protections are less stringent will increase. If we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. We cannot assure you that others will not claim that our proprietary or licensed products are infringing on their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe on those intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. If someone claims that our products infringed on their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or to modify our products. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for our products and services are competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our business could be negatively impacted. The markets in which we compete are very competitive and subject to technological change, evolving standards, frequent product enhancements and introductions and changing customer requirements. A number of companies offer products and services that are similar to those offered by us and that target the same markets. In addition, any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and 10 Table of Contents changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than us. Our competitors may develop products and services that compete with those offered by us or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with us. It also is possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share, including in new and emerging markets. If we are not able to differentiate our products and services in the market, competitive pressures may potentially impact our sales volumes, pricing structure, gross margin, operating expenses and operating income. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that current or potential competitors of X-Rite will not develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that we develop, combine or merge to form significant competitors, or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share for our products and services, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that the company may face will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We may be affected by environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations relating to discharges of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the cleanup of properties necessitated by pollutants. Any of those regulations could require us to acquire expensive equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with them. If we incur substantial additional expenses, product costs could significantly increase. Also, if we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws, rules and regulations, such failure could result in fines, suspension of production or cessation of operations. Impairment charges relating to our goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles, and long-lived assets could adversely affect our financial performance. We regularly monitor our goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles, and long-lived assets for impairment indicators using the fair value of our reporting unit and the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the long-lived assets. Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles, or long-lived assets. In the event that we determine that our goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles, or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Because a limited number of stockholders control the majority of the voting power of our common stock, our other stockholders will not be able to determine the outcome of stockholder votes. As of December 31, 2011, affiliates of OEPX, LLC, Sagard Capital Partners, L.P. and Tinicum Lantern II, L.L.C., directly or indirectly, beneficially own and have the ability to exercise voting control over, in the aggregate, approximately 67.8 percent of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any amendments to our certificate of incorporation and significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may exercise this control even if they are opposed by our other stockholders. Without the consent of these stockholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions (including the acquisition of our company by third parties) that may be viewed as beneficial to us or our other stockholders. In addition, this significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock if investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company with controlling stockholders. 11 Table of Contents We are involved from time to time in various legal and regulatory proceedings and claims, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings and claims from time to time that could be significant. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, including disputes with our customers, suppliers or competitors, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, tax matters and employment matters. No assurance can be given that such proceedings and claims will not adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those related to health, safety and environmental matters. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, capital markets, healthcare costs, energy usage, international trade, and immigration and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our businesses and our customers’ and suppliers’ businesses. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulations, or the application thereof. Changes in these laws or regulations, the interpretation thereof or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS—None 12 Table of Contents 