Risk Factors Risks Related to Koor We depend on our subsidiaries and affiliates for distributions and management fees. We conduct our business primarily through our wholly and partially owned subsidiaries and affiliates, and are partially dependent upon management fees and cash distributions from our subsidiaries and affiliates as a source of cash flow for funding our corporate level activities. We received management fees in the amount of NIS 20 million and NIS 22 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, pursuant to management agreements between us and several of our subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, in 2004 we received NIS 135 million in distributions from subsidiaries and affiliates, of which NIS 68 million was received from Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd., or MA Industries and NIS 67 million was received as an initial liquidating distribution in respect of our wholly owned subsidiary, Tadiran Ltd., or Tadiran. In 2005, we received NIS 114 million in distributions from subsidiaries and affiliates, of which NIS 82 million was received from MA Industries and NIS 14 million was received as a final liquidating distribution in respect of Tadiran. In recommending dividends and approving management fees, the directors and applicable committees of each of our subsidiaries must take into consideration the legal, tax, and financial effects of such dividends and management fees, as well as the best interests of each such subsidiary. In addition, several of our subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to dividend payment restrictions derived from their organizational documents, credit agreements and tax considerations. If we were to experience a substantial reduction in the level of payments of dividends and management fees, there can be no assurance that alternative sources of cash flow, including bank loans and asset sales, would be available for us to carry out our investment plans, pay dividends on our capital stock and service our debt. In addition, all of our unsecured indebtedness is effectively subordinated to all liabilities, including trade payables of our subsidiaries and affiliates. Any right we have to receive assets of our subsidiaries and affiliates upon their liquidation or reorganization (and the consequent right of the holders of our indebtedness to participate in those assets) will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's or affiliate's creditors (including trade creditors), except to the extent that we are recognized as a creditor of such subsidiary or affiliate, in which case our claims would still be subordinate to any security interests in the assets of such subsidiary or affiliate and any indebtedness of such subsidiary or affiliate senior to that held by us. Under Israeli law, certain indebtedness of a company under liquidation, including certain indebtedness resulting from an employment relationship or tenancy, and certain indebtedness resulting from governmental and municipal tax liabilities, may rank senior to other unsecured indebtedness. If the sectors of the telecommunication equipment market targeted by our affiliated company do not continue to grow, that affiliated company's results of operations, and consequently, our net earnings, may be materially adversely affected. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, our equity in the results of our affiliated company ECI Telecom Ltd. or ECI, accounted for approximately 18% and -10%, 5 respectively, of our consolidated net earnings. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004 our investment in ECI accounted for 32% and 36%, respectively, of our total shareholders' equity. ECI has targeted the optical networks and broadband sectors of the telecommunication equipment market, which have expanded in recent years. The optical networks market is being driven by the significant increase in cellular subscription in emerging markets and the building of "third generation" networks in more developed countries. The broadband market has benefited from a substantial expansion in broadband subscription, particularly in Europe and the range of services being offered, including the recent introduction of "triple play" applications (voice, data and video - in particular IP television - has increased. Furthermore, in June 2005, ECI purchased Laurel Networks Inc. for $88 million, and Laurel became ECI's data networking division, one of ECI's core businesses. If either the optical networks market or the broadband market fail to continue to grow, or if ECI is unable to respond adequately and take full advantage of the growth, or if ECI is unable to increase sales of data networking products sufficiently, ECI's business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and consequently, our net earnings may be materially adversely affected. Our affiliated companies need to develop and introduce new products and penetrate new markets in the telecommunication equipment and agrochemical businesses in order to remain competitive in those industries. These affiliated companies are also partially dependent on licensed technology. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, our affiliated companies, ECI and Telrad Networks Ltd., or Telrad, which operate in the telecommunication equipment business, and MA Industries Ltd., or MA Industries, which operates in the agrochemical business, together accounted for approximately 103% and 81%, respectively, of our consolidated net earnings. In addition, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, our investments in ECI, Telrad and MA Industries together accounted for approximately 102% and 122%, respectively, of our total shareholders' equity. The business and market in these segments are characterized by rapid technological and product development. Consequently, the ability to anticipate changes in technology and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis will be significant factors in the ability of these businesses to grow and remain competitive. We cannot assure you that our affiliated companies will be able to develop new products and technologies on a timely basis in order to remain competitive in the telecommunication equipment and agrochemical industries. The telecommunications equipment market is very competitive and our affiliated companies that are active in this market face intense price pressure, particularly from Chinese competitors. Such competition and price pressure could materially adversely affect these affiliated companies' results of operations, and consequently, our net earnings. ECI and Telrad, two of our affiliated companies, operate in the telecommunications equipment market. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004 our investments in ECI and Telrad accounted for approximately 34% and 44%, respectively, of our total shareholders' equity. 6 The telecommunications market is very competitive and competition may increase in the future. Current competitors in this market include Alcatel, Huawei, Lucent, Marconi (recently acquired by Ericsson), Nortel, Siemens and others. All of these are larger than our affiliates and may have greater name recognition, broader product lines, larger customer bases, and more extensive relationships with customers. They may also have greater resources than those currently available to our affiliates. In addition, our affiliates may face particularly intensive price pressure as a result of competition from Chinese vendors. Increased competition and pricing pressure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and may result in lower margins, loss of market share and other adverse factors. Telrad, one of our significant affiliates, depends on one key customer. Telrad, one of our significant affiliates, is substantially dependent upon its relationship with Nortel as a key supplier of technology and as a key customer of Telrad's products. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, approximately 34% and 62%, respectively, of Telrad's sales were derived from sales to Nortel. Accordingly, Telrad's sales volume is directly influenced by Nortel's sales forecasts and actual purchases. Although we and Telrad believe that the relationship with Nortel is generally good, if such relationship was to be terminated or diminished for any reason, it could have a material adverse affect on Telrad's business, financial condition or results of operation, which may have an adverse effect on our net earnings. Economic instability in the emerging markets of South America and Central and Eastern Europe poses a risk to the agrochemicals business of MA Industries, one of our significant affiliates. The activity of MA Industries in South America (mainly Brazil) and in countries in Central and Eastern Europe, is exposed to risk resulting from the possibility of economic instability in these countries such as exchange rate fluctuations (customer accounts receivable are in local currency), high inflation and interest rates, and changes in economic legislation. A portion of the above mentioned risks are hedged by means of various instruments. The relative share of our agrochemicals activities in these markets is decreasing over the years due to MA Industries' strategy to expand its activities in economically-stable markets. 7 Disruption in the supply of raw materials and/or disruption in transportation services could have a negative impact on MA Industries' agrochemicals business. MA Industries imports raw materials to its manufacturing facilities in Israel, and exports products to its non-Israeli subsidiaries for manufacturing, formulation and distribution through three Israeli ports. In the event that one of these ports will be disrupted for an extended period of time, such as during an employee strike, MA Industries may have significant difficulty obtaining raw materials required for manufacture of its products, or obtaining them at economically viable prices. Similarly, MA Industries may be unable to transport its products to its non-Israeli subsidiaries for manufacturing, formulation and distribution, or to transport them at reasonable costs. Therefore, extensive disruptions at one of these ports could have a negative effect on MA Industries' agrochemicals business. Concentration of manufacturing in a limited number of manufacturing facilities could pose a risk for MA Industries' agrochemicals business. A significant part of the manufacturing activities of MA Industries takes place in a limited number of facilities. Significant damage to any of these facilities due to natural disaster or other causes could have a significant negative impact on MA Industries' agrochemicals business. MA Industries' operations are exposed to stricter environmental, health and safety regulations and standards Companies in the plant protection products industry, such as several of MA Industries' subsidiaries, purchase, manufacture, sell and distribute materials that can be hazardous to the environment. Consequently, their activities are subject to comprehensive regulation concerning the storage, handling, manufacture, conveying, use and disposal of those products, their components and their byproducts. Specifically, MA Industries' subsidiaries' manufacturing and formulation facilities in Israel, Brazil, Colombia, Greece and Spain operate, in each of those countries, in accordance with environmental standards for air pollution, removal of effluents, the use and handling of hazardous materials, methods for the removal of waste and the cleaning up of existing environmental pollution. Over the years, these standards have become steadily stricter in their environmental requirements and their enforcement in each of these countries, and the cost of compliance has risen in parallel. In addition to the current costs of compliance, MA Industries' subsidiaries are required to bear a one-time expense for compliance. Since the subsidiaries are unable to assess environmental issues with any certainty, the funds they allocate or will allocate for projects for environmental improvement can turn out to be insufficient. Both ongoing costs deriving from compliance with these requirements and the one-time expenses can have an adverse effect on their business, on their financial situation and on the results of their operations. The subsidiaries are working to a master plan (for implementation in 2005-2008) for investments in improving the handling of effluents and purification of the air, which is expected to require about $60 million. MA Industries' subsidiaries hold various permits on environment-related issues, which define the conditions for operating its various manufacturing facilities. Expansion of production 8 in its plants requires new or additional permits. The terms of the permits can change or can be disqualified by the relevant regulator. Stricter terms, disqualification or changes in permits or their terms could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of MA Industries and the results of its operations. For details about legal proceedings see Item 8 included elsewhere in this annual report. MA Industries' agrochemicals business may be negatively impacted in the event of significant product liability claims that exceed our insurance coverage. The activities of MA Industries are exposed to risk relating to product liability claims. MA Industries has insurance coverage for third party liability and defective products of up to $300 million per annum. In the event that MA Industries would be found liable in a lawsuit concerning product liability, its insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the damages, and this may have a significant negative impact on our agrochemicals business. Furthermore, publication of the existence of such a claim could have a negative impact on the reputation of MA Industries, and this could have a negative impact on its business. Our investments in hi-tech companies involve a high degree of risk. Our investment in hi-tech companies is conducted through Koor Corporate Venture Capital, or Koor CVC. As at December 31, 2005 our Koor CVC hi-tech portfolio comprised of 6 active companies, a limited partnership in Pitango venture capital fund and a 23% interest in Scopus Network Technologies Ltd. (18.2% on a fully diluted basis), with a total book value of NIS 166 million (approximately $36 million). Our investment in hi-tech and venture capital companies carries with it a high level of risk. The main risk factors are: o The uncertainty involved in advanced technological developments in the fields of internet and telecommunications, and the lack of certainty that a product will actually be developed or, if and when it is developed, that a market will be found for it, as well as the high marketing costs and intense competition in these fields; o The uncertainty existing on the date of commencement of projects as to the total investment required for developing a product and the lack of certainty that funding will be found for the continued development and marketing of products, if developed; o The rapid technological changes that characterize the industries of the companies in which we have invested could reduce or cancel demand for products developed by such companies; o The dependence of start-up companies, including those in which we have invested, on their founders or on key personnel, especially in the areas of management and development; o The lack of certainty regarding the ability of the companies in which we have invested to recruit appropriate personnel, in particular when faced with increasing competition for quality personnel; 9 o The lack of intellectual property protection for internet products and increased competition in this area; and o The lack of ability to control and manage a company in which we hold a minority stake. Several of our affiliates are exposed to fluctuations in prices of raw materials and commodities. Several of our affiliates, primarily those in the agrochemical industry, have exposure to risks stemming from fluctuations in prices of raw materials and agricultural commodities. An increase in raw material prices or a decrease in commodity prices (which could lower the selling prices of our products) could lower the profitability of our business. Risks Related to Israel Exchange rate fluctuations and inflation in Israel impact our business. A significant portion of the sales of our major subsidiaries and affiliates are made outside Israel in dollars or other non-Israeli currencies while these companies incur significant portions of their expenses in NIS. Alternatively, some subsidiaries and affiliates whose sales are principally in NIS incur expenses in dollars or in other non-Israeli currencies. For example, a significant portion of the sales of our telecommunication equipment, defense electronics and the agrochemicals businesses are in dollars, whereas a significant portion of these businesses expenses are incurred in NIS and are partially linked to the Israeli CPI. In addition, certain borrowings are linked to the dollar or other non-Israeli currencies or to the CPI. During the calendar years 2003, 2004 and 2005, the annual rate of inflation was approximately -1.9%, 1.2% and 2.4%, respectively, while the NIS appreciated against the dollar by approximately 7.6% and 1.6% in 2003 and 2004, respectively, and depreciated against the dollar by approximately 6.8% in 2005. Consequently, during the calendar years 2003, 2004 and 2005, the annual rate of inflation as adjusted for devaluation was approximately 6.2%, 2.8% and -4.1%, respectively. Continued delay in or lack of any devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or other currencies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To compensate for inflation in Israel and changes in the relative value of Israeli currency compared to the dollar and other currencies, we have adopted financial strategies, including entering into foreign currency transactions with respect to certain specific commitments and general hedging transactions with respect to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-Israeli currencies (including Brazilian currency). There can be no assurance, however, that such activities, or others that we may undertake from time to time, will eliminate the negative financial impact of such fluctuations. Conditions in Israel may affect our operations. We and our principal subsidiaries and affiliates are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where our principal offices and a substantial portion of our operations are located. We are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. 10 Accordingly, any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, a significant increase in inflation or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, there are a number of countries, particularly in the Middle East, which restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies. There can be no assurance that restrictive laws or policies directed toward Israel or Israeli businesses will not have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business. Hostilities in the West Bank and Gaza Strip may affect tourism and other businesses. In September 2000, there was an escalation of violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and increased terrorist activities within Israel, causing a sharp decrease in tourism to Israel in the years 2000-2003 and a further deceleration in all aspects of the Israeli economy. The areas of tourism and aviation were most affected by the increased hostilities, and the recession in the Israeli real estate market has become more entrenched. Since the second half of 2003, there has been a gradual improvement in inbound and domestic tourism. In addition, there are initial indications of a positive improvement in the real estate market as seen through increased project initiations and real estate prices. However, we are unable to predict the duration of this trend or the extent of any impact that it may have on our revenues or results of operations. Any return to a prolonged and substantial political turmoil will likely have an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, market perception that these conditions could have an impact upon us may harm the trading price of our ordinary shares, whether or not our business or results of operations are actually affected. Many of our directors, officers and employees are obligated to perform military reserve duty in Israel. Most able-bodied male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, including some of our directors, officers and employees, are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty, which could accumulate annually from several days to up to two months in special cases and circumstances. The length of this reserve duty depends, among other factors, on an individual's age and position in the military. Additionally, these residents may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Reserve duty may be increased as a result of an increased level of violence with the Palestinians or military conflict in the region. We have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations. No assessment can be made, however, as to the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. Israel's economy may be destabilized. Israel's economy has been subject to a number of destabilizing factors. These include a period of severe inflation in the early to mid-1980s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices, military conflicts and civil unrest. For these and other reasons, the Government of Israel has intervened in different sectors of the economy. Such intervention has 11 included employing fiscal and monetary policies, import duties, foreign currency restrictions and controls of wages, prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Israeli government has periodically changed its policies in all of these areas. Changes in these policies may make it more difficult for us to operate our business as we have in the past. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, all of our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this prospectus, are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price may be volatile and may decline. Numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly. These factors include, among other things, announcements of technological innovations, earnings releases by us or our competitors, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets (in particular the technology and Israeli sectors of the securities markets). Our operating results in one or more future periods may fluctuate significantly and may cause our share price to be volatile. Our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations due to various factors, including divestitures of companies, competitive pressures and general economic conditions. Because a significant portion of our overhead consists of fixed costs, our quarterly results may be adversely impacted if sales fall below management's expectations. As a result, our results of operations for any quarter may not be indicative of results for any future period. Due to all of the foregoing factors, in some future quarters our sales or operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysis or investors. In such event, the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares would likely be materially adversely affected. 12 