RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO KOOR WE DEPEND ON OUR SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES FOR DISTRIBUTIONS AND MANAGEMENT FEES. We conduct our business primarily through our wholly and partially owned subsidiaries and affiliates, and are partially dependent upon management fees and cash distributions from our subsidiaries and affiliates as a source of cash flow for funding our corporate level activities. We received management fees in the amount of NIS 7 million and NIS 20 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, pursuant to management agreements between us and several of our subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, in 2006, we received NIS 114 million in dividend distributions from subsidiaries and affiliates, of which NIS 97 million was received from Makhteshim Agan Industries Ltd., or MA Industries. In 2005, we received NIS 162 million in dividend distributions from subsidiaries and affiliates, of which NIS 82 million was received from MA Industries and NIS 62 million was received as a final liquidating distribution in respect of our wholly owned subsidiary, Tadiran Ltd., or Tadiran. In recommending dividends and approving management fees, the directors and applicable committees of each of our subsidiaries must take into consideration the legal, tax, and financial effects of such dividends and management fees, as well as the best interests of each such subsidiary. In addition, several of our subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to dividend payment restrictions derived from their organizational documents, credit agreements and tax considerations. If we were to experience a substantial reduction in the level of payments of dividends and management fees, there can be no assurance that alternative sources of cash flow, including bank loans and asset sales, would be available for us to carry out our investment plans, pay dividends on our capital stock and service our debt. In addition, all of our unsecured indebtedness is effectively subordinated to all liabilities, including trade payables of our subsidiaries and affiliates. Any right we have to receive assets of our subsidiaries and affiliates upon their liquidation or reorganization (and the consequent right of the holders of our indebtedness to participate in those assets) will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's or affiliate's creditors (including trade creditors), except to the extent that we are recognized as a creditor of such subsidiary or affiliate, in which case our claims would still be subordinate to any security interests in the assets of such subsidiary or affiliate and any indebtedness of such subsidiary or affiliate senior to that held by us. Under Israeli law, certain indebtedness of a company under liquidation, including certain indebtedness resulting from an employment relationship or tenancy, and certain indebtedness resulting from governmental and municipal tax liabilities, may rank senior to other unsecured indebtedness. ECONOMIC INSTABILITY IN THE EMERGING MARKETS OF SOUTH AMERICA AND CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE POSES A RISK TO THE AGROCHEMICALS BUSINESS OF MA INDUSTRIES, ONE OF OUR SIGNIFICANT AFFILIATES. The activity of MA Industries in South America (mainly Brazil) and in countries in Central and Eastern Europe, is exposed to risk resulting from the possibility of economic instability in these countries such as exchange rate fluctuations (customer accounts receivable are in local currency), high inflation and interest rates, and changes in economic legislation. A portion of the above mentioned risks are hedged by means of various instruments. The relative share of MA Industries' agrochemicals activities in these markets is decreasing over the years due to MA Industries' strategy to expand its activities in economically-stable markets. 6 REDUCED DEMAND FOR MA INDUSTRIES' PRODUCTS AS A RESULT OF THE WORSENING FINANCIAL CONDITION OF FARMERS IN EMERGING MARKETS AND A DECREASE IN THE PRICES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ALSO POSES A RISK TO MA INDUSTRIES' BUSINESS. The activities of MA Industries in emerging markets, such as South America (mainly in Brazil) and in Eastern European countries, are also exposed to risks deriving from the worsening financial condition of farmers in those markets and from a decrease in the prices of the agricultural commodities they sell, which cause reduced demand for MA Industries' products, erosion in profitability and collection difficulties. DISRUPTION IN THE SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS AND/OR DISRUPTION IN TRANSPORTATION SERVICES COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON MA INDUSTRIES' AGROCHEMICALS BUSINESS. MA Industries imports raw materials to its manufacturing facilities in Israel, and exports products to its non-Israeli subsidiaries for manufacturing, formulation and distribution through three Israeli ports. In the event that one of these ports will be disrupted for an extended period of time, such as during an employee strike, MA Industries may have significant difficulty obtaining raw materials required for manufacture of its products, or obtaining them at economically viable prices. Similarly, MA Industries may be unable to transport its products to its non-Israeli subsidiaries for manufacturing, formulation and distribution, or to transport them at reasonable costs. Therefore, extensive disruptions at one of these ports could have a negative effect on MA Industries' agrochemicals business. CONCENTRATION OF MANUFACTURING IN A LIMITED NUMBER OF MANUFACTURING FACILITIES COULD POSE A RISK FOR MA INDUSTRIES' AGROCHEMICALS BUSINESS. A significant part of the manufacturing activities of MA Industries takes place in a limited number of facilities. Significant damage to any of these facilities due to natural disaster or other causes could have a significant negative impact on MA Industries' agrochemicals business. COMPETITION IN THE AGROCHEMICAL PRODUCTS MARKET COULD LEAD TO PRICE EROSION MA Industries competes with large multi-national research-based companies in all geographic markets. In 2006, the sales of the six leading multi-national research-based companies constituted 70% of sales in the global agrochemical products market. In addition to these companies, there are several smaller research-based agrochemical products companies, against which MA Industries competes in certain geographic markets. MA Industries also competes with generic companies in many of its geographic markets. Most of the other generic companies do not have global distribution networks and they generally focus on specific geographic markets. However, there are indications of the strengthening of several generic competitors, which are expanding their array of products, markets and distribution networks on a global basis and not just on a local or regional basis. 7 Increased competition in the agrochemical products market could lead to price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect on MA Industries' business, financial condition and operating results and may result in lower margins, loss of market share and other adverse factors and consequently, our net earnings could be materially adversely affected. MA INDUSTRIES' OPERATIONS ARE EXPOSED TO STRICTER ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS Companies in the plant protection products industry, such as several of MA Industries' subsidiaries, purchase, manufacture, sell and distribute materials that can be hazardous to the environment. Consequently, their activities are subject to comprehensive regulation concerning the storage, handling, manufacture, conveying, use and disposal of those products, their components and their byproducts. Specifically, MA Industries' subsidiaries' manufacturing and formulation facilities in Israel, Brazil, Colombia, Greece and Spain operate, in each of those countries, in accordance with environmental standards for air pollution, removal of effluents, the use and handling of hazardous materials, methods for the removal of waste and the cleaning up of existing environmental pollution. MA Industries and its subsidiaries may be subject to significant civil or criminal liability (including high penalties) for deviation from and/or violation of these environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, some of the existing legislation could impose liability on MA Industries and its subsidiaries regardless of malice or negligence (absolute liability). Other environmental laws stipulate responsibility for treating pollution, and therefore, could expose MA Industries to expenses for cleaning and treating soil and/or water reservoirs (even after the production of MA Industries on the land will end). Over the years, these standards have become steadily stricter in their environmental requirements and their enforcement in each of these countries, and the cost of compliance has risen in parallel. Likewise, the growing pressure in recent years, from the law enforcement agencies and from environmental protection organizations, on companies and products that have potential to pollute the environment is also expressed in the institution of legal proceedings - criminal, civil and administrative. MA Industries' insurance policy does not cover gradual environmental pollution - only accident events. In addition to the current costs of compliance, MA Industries' subsidiaries are required to bear a one-time expense for compliance. Since the subsidiaries are unable to assess environmental issues with any certainty, the funds they allocate or will allocate for projects for environmental improvement can turn out to be insufficient. Both ongoing costs deriving from compliance with these requirements and the one-time expenses can have an adverse effect on their business, on their financial situation and on the results of their operations. MA Industries' subsidiaries hold various permits on environment-related issues, which define the conditions for operating its various manufacturing facilities. Expansion of production in its plants requires new or additional permits. The terms of the permits can change or can be disqualified by the relevant regulator. Stricter terms, disqualification or changes in permits or their terms could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of MA Industries and the results of its operations. For a discussion of material legal proceedings related to environmental issues, in which MA Industries is involved, please see "Item 8, Financial Information - Legal Proceedings." 8 MA INDUSTRIES MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN EFFECTIVELY INTEGRATING PAST AND FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MA Industries aspires to make intelligent acquisitions that will expand its product portfolio and will deepen its presence in certain geographic markets. During the last three years, MA Industries has acquired several companies and dozens of products. The acquisition of companies, businesses and products entail certain risks: o MA Industries could be unsuccessful in integrating the acquisitions in accordance with its business strategy; o As a result of such acquisitions, MA Industries may lose major customers or face exposure to unexpected liabilities; o MA Industries may lose key employees and managers as a result of such acquisitions and may not be able to hire skilled manpower to replace them. MA INDUSTRIES' AGROCHEMICALS BUSINESS MAY BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED IN THE EVENT OF SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS THAT EXCEED ITS INSURANCE COVERAGE. The activities of MA Industries are exposed to risk relating to product liability claims. MA Industries has insurance coverage for third party liability and defective products of up to $300 million per annum. In the event that MA Industries would be found liable in a lawsuit concerning product liability, its insurance coverage may not apply or may not be sufficient to cover the damages, and this may have a significant negative impact on our agrochemicals business. Furthermore, publication of the existence of such a claim could have a negative impact on the reputation of MA Industries, and this could have a negative impact on its business. IF THE SECTORS OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT MARKET TARGETED BY ECI TELECOM LTD., ONE OF OUR AFFILIATES, DO NOT CONTINUE TO GROW, ITS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND CONSEQUENTLY, OUR NET EARNINGS, MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our equity in the loss of our affiliated company ECI Telecom Ltd., or ECI, amounted to approximately 8% of our consolidated net loss. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our equity in the results of ECI accounted for approximately 17% of our consolidated net earnings. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, our investment in ECI accounted for approximately 34% and 32%, respectively, of our total shareholders' equity. ECI has targeted the optical networks sector of the telecommunication equipment market, which has expanded in recent years and the broadband sector of the telecommunication equipment market, which has contracted in 2006. The market for optical networks products is being driven in particular by the increase in demand for wireless backhaul. This demand is fueled by the significant increase in the number of cellular subscribers in emerging markets, such as Russia, Ukraine, India and the Philippines. In more developed countries, the primary reason for this demand is the build-up of 3G (third generation) networks. Recovery in the revenues of ECI's Broadband Access Division during 2007, from the relatively low level it reached in the latter part of 2006, depends upon a number of factors. These include the transition to new broadband technologies and the pace of their adoption by ECI's customers, increased purchases by the division's two major customers, sales to new customers in the emerging markets, as well as possible sales to new European customers and the success of a new strategic distribution partnership entered into with a major communications equipment manufacturer. 9 If either the optical networks market or the broadband market fails to grow, or if ECI is unable to respond adequately and take full advantage of the growth, ECI's business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and consequently, our net earnings may be materially adversely affected. OUR AFFILIATED COMPANIES NEED TO DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS AND PENETRATE NEW MARKETS IN THE TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT AND AGROCHEMICAL BUSINESSES IN ORDER TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE IN THOSE INDUSTRIES. THESE AFFILIATED COMPANIES ARE ALSO PARTIALLY DEPENDENT ON LICENSED TECHNOLOGY. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our equity in the results of affiliated companies, ECI, ECtel Ltd., or ECtel (which has been included in our consolidated financial statements according to the equity method only as of the third quarter of 2006), and Telrad Networks Ltd., or Telrad, which operate in the telecommunication equipment business, contributed NIS 3 million, NIS 3 million and NIS 100 million, respectively to our consolidated net loss, while our equity in the results of MA Industries, which operates in the agrochemical business, contributed earnings of NIS 66 million, which partially offset our consolidated net loss. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our equity in the results of ECI and MA Industries contributed earnings of NIS 53 million and NIS 359 million, respectively, to our consolidated net earnings, while our equity in the results of Telrad contributed a loss of NIS 90 million, which partially offset our consolidated net earnings. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, our investments in ECI, ECtel, Telrad and MA Industries together accounted for approximately 142% of our total shareholders' equity and as of December 31, 2005, our investments in ECI, Telrad and MA Industries together accounted for approximately 104%, of our total shareholders' equity. The business and market in these segments are characterized by rapid technological and product development. Consequently, the ability to anticipate changes in technology and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis will be significant factors in the ability of these businesses to grow and remain competitive. We cannot assure you that our affiliated companies will be able to develop new products and technologies on a timely basis in order to remain competitive in the telecommunication equipment and agrochemical industries. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MARKET IS VERY COMPETITIVE AND OUR AFFILIATED COMPANIES THAT ARE ACTIVE IN THIS MARKET FACE INTENSE PRICE PRESSURE, PARTICULARLY FROM CHINESE COMPETITORS. SUCH COMPETITION AND PRICE PRESSURE COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT THESE AFFILIATED COMPANIES' RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND CONSEQUENTLY, OUR NET EARNINGS. ECI, ECtel and Telrad, three of our affiliated companies, operate in the telecommunications equipment and software market. As of December 31, 2006, our investments in ECI, ECtel and Telrad accounted for approximately 36% of our total shareholders' equity. As of December 31, 2005 our investments in ECI and Telrad accounted for approximately 36% of our total shareholders' equity. 10 The telecommunications market is very competitive, and competition may increase in the future, especially in the light of a number of mergers that have recently taken place in this industry, creating potentially stronger competitors. Current competitors include, primarily, the recently merged Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson (which has acquired both Marconi and Redback Networks), the recently merged Nokia-Siemens, as well as Huawei, Nortel and Tellabs. All of these are larger than our affiliates and may have greater name recognition, broader product lines, larger customer bases and more extensive relationship with customers, and accordingly may be better able to address an increasing trend in the industry in which service providers seek an overall telecommunication solution rather than to acquire separate products from heterogeneous equipment providers. They may also have greater financial, technical, research and development, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than those currently available to our affiliates. In addition, ECI and Telrad may face particularly intensive price pressure as a result of competition from Chinese vendors. Increased competition and pricing pressure could have a material adverse effect on our affiliated companies' business, financial condition and operating results and may result in lower margins, loss of market share and other adverse factors and consequently, our net earnings could be materially adversely affected. TELRAD, ONE OF OUR AFFILIATES, DEPENDS ON ONE KEY CUSTOMER. Telrad, one of our affiliates, is substantially dependent upon its relationship with Nortel as a key customer of Telrad's products. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 67% and 78%, respectively, of Telrad's sales were derived from sales to Nortel. Accordingly, Telrad's sales volume is directly influenced by Nortel's sales forecasts and actual purchases. Although we and Telrad believe that the relationship with Nortel is generally good, if such relationship was to be terminated or diminished for any reason, it could have a material adverse affect on Telrad's business, financial condition or results of operation, which may have an adverse effect on our net earnings. OUR INVESTMENTS IN HI-TECH COMPANIES INVOLVE A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. Our investment in hi-tech companies is conducted through Koor Corporate Venture Capital, or Koor CVC. As at December 31, 2006, our Koor CVC hi-tech portfolio comprised of 5 active companies, a limited partnership in Pitango venture capital fund and a 22% interest in Scopus Network Technologies Ltd. (which was sold on January 11, 2007), with a total book value of NIS 206 million. Our investment in hi-tech and venture capital companies carries with it a high level of risk. The main risk factors are: o The uncertainty involved in advanced technological developments in the fields of internet and telecommunications, and the lack of certainty that a product will actually be developed or, if and when it is developed, that a market will be found for it, as well as the high marketing costs and intense competition in these fields; 11 o The uncertainty existing on the date of commencement of projects as to the total investment required for developing a product and the lack of certainty that funding will be found for the continued development and marketing of products, if developed; o The rapid technological changes that characterize the industries of the companies in which we have invested could reduce or cancel demand for products developed by such companies; o The dependence of start-up companies, including those in which we have invested, on their founders or on key personnel, especially in the areas of management and development; o The lack of certainty regarding the ability of the companies in which we have invested to recruit appropriate personnel, in particular when faced with increasing competition for quality personnel; o The lack of intellectual property protection for internet products and increased competition in this area; and o The lack of ability to control and manage a company in which we hold a minority stake. SEVERAL OF OUR AFFILIATES ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN PRICES OF RAW MATERIALS AND COMMODITIES. Several of our affiliates, primarily those in the agrochemical industry, have exposure to risks stemming from fluctuations in prices of raw materials and agricultural commodities. An increase in raw material prices or a decrease in commodity prices (which could lower the selling prices of our products) could lower the profitability of our business. RISKS RELATED TO ISRAEL EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS AND INFLATION IN ISRAEL IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. A significant portion of the sales of our major subsidiaries and affiliates are made outside Israel in dollars or other non-Israeli currencies while these companies incur significant portions of their expenses in NIS. Alternatively, some subsidiaries and affiliates whose sales are principally in NIS incur expenses in dollars or in other non-Israeli currencies. For example, a significant portion of the sales of our telecommunication equipment and the agrochemicals businesses are in dollars or other non-Israeli currencies, whereas a significant portion of these businesses expenses are incurred in NIS and are partially linked to the Israeli CPI. In addition, certain borrowings are linked to the dollar or other non-Israeli currencies or to the CPI. During the calendar years 2004, 2005 and 2006, the annual rate of inflation in Israel was approximately 1.2%, 2.4% and -0.1%, respectively, while the NIS appreciated against the dollar by approximately 1.6% in 2004, depreciated against the dollar by approximately 6.8% in 2005 and appreciated against the dollar by approximately 8.2% in 2006. Consequently, during the calendar years 2004, 2005 and 2006, the annual rate of inflation as adjusted for devaluation was approximately 2.8%, -4.1% and 8.8%, respectively. Continued delay in or lack of any devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or other currencies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 To compensate for inflation in Israel and changes in the relative value of Israeli currency compared to the dollar and other currencies, we and our major subsidiaries and affiliates have adopted financial strategies, including entering into foreign currency transactions with respect to certain specific commitments and general hedging transactions with respect to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-Israeli currencies (including Brazilian currency). There can be no assurance, however, that such activities, or others that we may undertake from time to time, will eliminate the negative financial impact of such fluctuations. CONDITIONS IN ISRAEL MAY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. We and our principal subsidiaries and affiliates are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where our principal offices and a substantial portion of our operations are located. Accordingly, our and our affiliated companies' operations are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems in Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a marked increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, and in January 2006, Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. In addition, in July and August 2006, significant fighting took place between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon, which involved numerous missile strikes and disrupted day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Further, over the last seven years and more significantly in April and May 2007, rockets have been fired by Palestinians from the Gaza strip to the neighboring southern part of Israel. We cannot predict the effect on us and our affiliated companies of the increase in the degree of violence by Palestinians against Israel or the effect of military action elsewhere in the Middle East. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region could negatively affect local business conditions and harm our and our affiliated companies' results of operations. Furthermore, several countries restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of the increase in hostilities. These restrictive laws and policies may harm our and our affiliated companies' operating results, financial condition or business expansion. CHANGES IN CAPITAL MARKETS IN ISRAEL AND GLOBALLY MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. A downturn in the capital markets in Israel and globally could have an adverse effect on the prices of the marketable securities held by us and by our subsidiaries and affiliates, which would impact the ability to generate capital gains from the realization of those holdings, and impair the ability to execute offerings on stock exchanges in Israel and globally. Moreover, a downturn in the capital markets in Israel and globally could make it difficult to find the financing sources required by us and our subsidiaries and affiliates to finance day-to-day operations. 13 MANY OF OUR AND OUR SUBSIDIARIES' AND AFFILIATES' DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES ARE OBLIGATED TO PERFORM MILITARY RESERVE DUTY IN ISRAEL. Most able-bodied male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, including some of our directors, officers and employees, are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty, which could accumulate annually from several days to up to two months in special cases and circumstances. The length of this reserve duty depends, among other factors, on an individual's age and position in the military. Additionally, these residents may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Reserve duty may be increased as a result of an increased level of violence with the Palestinians or military conflict in the region. We have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations. No assessment can be made, however, as to the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE CHANGES IN ISRAEL MAY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Legislative changes in Israel in various areas, such as restrictive business practices, tender requirement laws, regulation of the telecommunication market, laws related to price regulation of products and services and consumer protection, environmental laws, planning and construction laws, etc., could impact our and our subsidiaries and affiliates results. Likewise, changes in policy adopted by the various authorities by virtue of these laws could have influence. Changes in the quota rates for goods and in the policies to protect domestic output could also influence the results of some of our subsidiaries and affiliates. Some of our subsidiaries and affiliates operate overseas, or their securities are traded on overseas stock exchanges. Changes in legislation and regulatory policies in the relevant foreign countries could influence the results of these companies. A change in accounting regulations could affect our and our subsidiaries and affiliates business results, and the ability of our subsidiaries and affiliates to distribute dividends. CURRENT REGULATION OF BANKS IN ISRAEL MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FINANCING FROM SUCH BANKS. Pursuant to the change in control of Koor that took place in July 2006, which is described elsewhere in this annual report, the banking system in Israel considers us to be part of the IDB Group which is considered by several of the major banks in Israel to be one of the six largest borrowers in Israel. There are limitations in the "Proper Conduct of Banking Business Regulations" of the Supervisor of Banks on the amounts that a bank in Israel is allowed to lend to one "individual borrower," to one "group of borrowers" and to the six largest borrowers and borrower groups in a banking corporation. These regulations and any changes in the list of corporations that comprise the same group of borrowers as Koor and in the balance of their debt to banks in Israel, as well as changes in the equity of the banks themselves, could limit the ability of the banking system in Israel to lend money to us and to some of our subsidiaries and affiliates. 14 ISRAEL'S ECONOMY MAY BE DESTABILIZED. Israel's economy has been subject to a number of destabilizing factors. These include a period of severe inflation in the early to mid-1980s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices, military conflicts and civil unrest. For these and other reasons, the Government of Israel has intervened in different sectors of the economy. Such intervention has included employing fiscal and monetary policies, import duties, foreign currency restrictions and controls of wages, prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Israeli government has periodically changed its policies in all of these areas. Changes in these policies may make it more difficult for us to operate our business as we have in the past. INCREASE IN MINIMUM WAGE AND STRIKES OR OTHER WORK STOPPAGES MAY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. A substantial increase in the minimum wage or other significant changes in labor laws could adversely affect the operating results of our subsidiaries and affiliates engaged mainly in the tourism and industrial sectors, and consequently, also adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, strikes or other work stoppages in our subsidiaries and affiliates and strikes or other work stoppages affecting Israel's ports could severely impede our affiliated companies' ability to export products to the majority of their customers, who are outside Israel. WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES LAW THAT MAY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. We are subject to the provisions of the Restrictive Trade Practices Law, with respect to our transactions or transactions of our subsidiaries and affiliates that constitute a merger and/or inclusion in cartels, as these terms are defined in the said law. Accordingly, certain transactions may require approval of the General Director of the Antitrust Authority, which could prevent the execution of transactions, as noted, or the Antitrust Authority could condition its approval on restrictive terms. The terms included in the merger permits that were or will be given by the General Director of the Antitrust Authority, in connection with the acquisition of holdings in various companies by the controlling shareholders of Koor and/or companies they control, could limit our and our subsidiaries and affiliates operations and influence our results. SERVICE AND ENFORCEMENT OF LEGAL PROCESS ON US AND OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS MAY BE DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, all of our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report, are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. 15 RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORDINARY SHARES OUR SHARE PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE AND MAY DECLINE. Numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly. These factors include, among other things, announcements of technological innovations, earnings releases by us or our competitors, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets (in particular the technology and Israeli sectors of the securities markets). OUR OPERATING RESULTS IN ONE OR MORE FUTURE PERIODS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY AND MAY CAUSE OUR SHARE PRICE TO BE VOLATILE. Our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations due to various factors, including divestitures of companies, competitive pressures and general economic conditions. Because a significant portion of our overhead consists of fixed costs, our quarterly results may be adversely impacted if sales fall below management's expectations. As a result, our results of operations for any quarter may not be indicative of results for any future period. Due to all of the foregoing factors, in some future quarters our sales or operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysis or investors. In such event, the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares would likely be materially adversely affected. WE HAVE VOLUNTARILY DELISTED FROM THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE AND TERMINATED OUR ADR PROGRAM, AND INTEND TO SEEK TO TERMINATE OUR EXCHANGE ACT REGISTRATION. In view of the increasing significant and disproportionate costs to us of maintaining a U.S. listing, an ADR program and a registration under the Exchange Act, and because of the limited number of holders of record of our ADRs and the low trading volume of our ADRs on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, on May 14, 2007, we announced that we intend to voluntarily delist our ADRs from the NYSE, terminate our ADR program with the Bank of New York, or BONY, as depositary and terminate our Exchange Act registration. On June 8, 2007, we filed a Form 25 with the SEC to effect the delisting, which we expect will take place on June 18, 2007, and on June 20, 2007, we expect to terminate the deposit agreement with BoNY relating to our ADR program. We intend to terminate the Exchange Act registration of our ADRs and ordinary shares under the Exchange Act as soon as circumstances permit, thereby terminating our obligation to file annual and other reports with the SEC. We currently expect such deregistration to take effect not earlier than the third quarter of 2007. As a result of the termination of the deposit agreement for our ADR program, our ADRs will no longer be transferable. However, until September 18, 2007, ADR holders are entitled to exchange their ADRs for the underlying ordinary shares (subject to cancellation fees charged by the depositary), failing which ADR holders will only be entitled to receive cash following the disposal by the depositary of their underlying ordinary shares on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Remaining ADR holders may obtain the cash proceeds from the sale, net of any applicable charges, expenses, taxes or governmental charges, by returning their ADRs to the depositary after September 18, 2007. There can be no assurance as to the price that the depositary will obtain upon such a sale. 16 The foregoing actions may have an adverse impact on the market price for our ordinary shares. If we are successful in terminating our Exchange Act registration, we will no longer be obligated to file reports with or furnish reports to the SEC, including annual reports on Form 20-F and current reports on Form 6-K. In addition, we will not be required to disclose financial information in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We will continue to provide information to our shareholders in accordance with the requirements applicable to us in Israel. 17 