Item 1A. Risk Factors Our market is highly competitive and we may not continue to compete successfully. The office products market is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of local, regional, national and international retailers, dealers and distributors for customers, employees, locations, products, services and other important aspects of our business. In most of our geographic markets, we compete with other high-volume office supply chains such as Office Depot and OfficeMax that are similar in concept to us in terms of pricing strategy and product selection, as well as mass merchants such as Wal-Mart, warehouse clubs such as Costco, computer and electronics superstores such as Best Buy and other discount retailers. In addition, both our retail stores and delivery operations compete with numerous mail order firms, contract stationer businesses, electronic commerce distributors, local dealers and direct manufacturers such as Dell. Many of our competitors have increased their presence in our markets in recent years. Some of our current and potential competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater financial resources that may be devoted to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. It is possible that increased competition or improved performance by our competitors may reduce our market share, profit margin and projected operating results, and may adversely affect our business and financial performance in other ways. We may be unable to continue to open new stores and enter new markets successfully. An important part of our business plan is to increase our number of stores and enter new geographic markets. We opened 99 new stores during fiscal 2005 and currently plan to open approximately 110 new stores in fiscal 2006. For our growth strategy to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable store sites, hire and train associates and adapt management and operational systems to meet the needs of our expanded operations. These tasks may be difficult to accomplish successfully. If we are unable to open new stores as quickly as planned, our future sales and profits may be adversely affected. Even if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. Also, our expansion strategy includes opening new stores in markets where we already have a presence so we can take advantage of economies of scale in marketing, distribution and supervision costs. However, these new stores may result in the loss of sales in existing stores in nearby areas, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our growth may continue to strain operations, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our business has grown dramatically over the past several years and continues to grow through organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Accordingly, sales, number of stores, number of countries in which we conduct business and number of associates have grown and likely will continue to grow. This growth places significant demands on management and operational systems. If we are not successful in continuing to support our operational and financial systems, expanding our management team and increasing and effectively managing our associate base, this growth is likely to result in operational inefficiencies and ineffective management of the business and associates, which will in turn adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, as we grow, our business is subject to a wider array 10 of complex state and federal regulations, and may be increasingly the target of private actions alleging violations of such regulations. This increases the cost of doing business and the risk that our business practices could unknowingly result in liabilities that may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our operating results may be impacted by changes in the economy that impact business and consumer spending. Our operating results are directly impacted by the health of the North American, European, South American and Asian economies. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions, including unemployment levels, energy costs, interest rates, recession, inflation, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities, and other matters that influence business and consumer spending. Our business and financial performance is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified associates. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining a large and growing number of quality associates. We face intense competition for qualified associates, and many of our associates are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs generally while controlling our labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates or our labor costs increase significantly, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. Our stock price may fluctuate based on market expectations. The public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of net income. If the securities analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop significantly. In addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would likely decline. The decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short of either a prior fiscal period or investors’ expectations. Factors that could cause these quarterly fluctuations include the following: the extent to which sales in new stores result in the loss of sales in existing stores; the mix of products sold; pricing actions of competitors; the level of advertising and promotional expenses; extreme weather-related disruptions; and seasonality, primarily because the sales and profitability of our stores are typically slightly lower in the first and second quarter of the fiscal year than in other quarters. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense, advertising expense and employee salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. Our expanding international operations expose us to the unique risks inherent in foreign operations. As of January 28, 2006, we had operations in 19 countries in Europe, South America and Asia and a significant presence in Canada. As evidenced by our recent entry into the South American and Asian markets, we may also seek to expand further into other international markets. Our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as local customs and regulatory constraints, foreign trade policies, competitive conditions, foreign currency fluctuations and unstable political and economic conditions. Further, our recent acquisitions in Europe and South America and our investments in Asia have increased our exposure to these foreign operating risks, which could have an adverse impact on our international income and worldwide profitability. Our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with our third-party vendors. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of third-party vendors. We cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of many of the products that we offer for sale and are dependent on the availability and pricing of key products, including without limitation paper, ink, toner and technology products. Disruptions in the availability of raw materials used in production of these products may adversely affect our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction. In addition, global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. Our ability 11 to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, merchandise quality issues, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, inflation and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other issues affecting our vendors could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our expanded offering of proprietary branded products may not improve our financial performance and may expose us to product liability claims. Our product offering includes Staples, Quill and other proprietary branded products which represented approximately 18% of our total sales in fiscal 2005. While we have focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third-party manufacturers for these products. Such third party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, or the quality of our globally sourced products may not meet our expectations. Furthermore, economic and political conditions in areas of the world where we source such products may adversely affect the availability and cost of such products. In addition, our proprietary branded products compete with other manufacturers’ branded items that we offer. As we continue to increase the number and types of proprietary branded products that we sell, we may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors, who may decide to reduce their product offerings through Staples and increase their product offerings through our competitors. Finally, if any of our customers are harmed by our proprietary branded products, they may bring product liability and other claims against us. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Our debt level and operating lease commitments could impact our ability to obtain future financing and continue our growth strategy. Our consolidated outstanding debt at January 28, 2006 was $538.0 million. Our future minimum lease commitments due for retail store and support facilities and equipment leases under non-cancelable operating leases were $5.25 billion at January 28, 2006. Our consolidated debt and operating lease obligations may have the effect generally of restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions and could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. In addition, our level of indebtedness may have other important consequences, including: restricting our growth; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, future acquisitions or other corporate purposes; and limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business. In such a situation, additional funds may not be available on satisfactory terms when needed, or at all, whether in the next twelve months or thereafter. The California wage and hour class action lawsuit may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Various class action lawsuits have been brought against us for alleged violations of what is known as California’s “wage and hour” law. The plaintiffs have alleged that we improperly classified both general and assistant store managers as exempt under the California wage and hour law, making such managers ineligible for overtime wages. The plaintiffs are seeking to require us to pay overtime wages to the putative class for the period from October 21, 1995 to the present. The court has granted class certification to the plaintiffs. The court’s ruling is procedural only and does not address the merits of the plaintiffs’ allegations. We believe that the class was improperly certified and intend to appeal the decision. If the case goes to trial, we believe we have meritorious defenses in the litigation and expect to prevail. If, however, there is an adverse judgment from which there is no successful appeal, damages could range from $10 million to $150 million, excluding interest and attorneys’ fees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 