Item 1A. Risk Factors Several of the matters discussed in this document contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors associated with the forward-looking statements that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or forecast are included in the statements below. In addition to other information contained in this report, readers should carefully consider the following cautionary statements. Risks Related To Our Business Our J. Lindeberg clothing line is a collaboration with J. Lindeberg USA Corp, a wholly-owned subsidiary of J. Lindeberg AB. Should our relationship with our partner deteriorate, our profitability may be negatively impacted. J. Lindeberg USA, LLC, an entity that we manage and is 50% owned by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Bella Rose, and 50% owned by J. Lindeberg USA Corp, a wholly-owned subsidiary of J. Lindeberg AB, has the exclusive rights to source, market, and distribute J. Lindeberg™ branded apparel in the United States on an exclusive basis. J. Lindeberg AB is required to make available to J. Lindeberg USA for purchase all new collections of J. Lindeberg™ branded apparel, and provide for the factory-direct purchase by J. Lindeberg USA of J. Lindeberg™ branded apparel on terms no less favorable to J. Lindeberg USA then terms received by J. Lindeberg AB or its affiliates for the same or substantially the same merchandise. In addition, the agreements establishing the relationship between the parties provide for a license from J. Lindeberg AB to J. Lindeberg USA of the J. Lindeberg™ mark and other related marks for use in the United States on an exclusive basis for a period of 25 years. In the event that our relationship with J. Lindeberg AB deteriorates or if the business operations of J. Lindeberg AB deteriorate, J. Lindeberg AB may be unable to fulfill its contractual obligation to us, including providing us with design, sourcing and timely product delivery, which could adversely impact our sales and profitability. Our J. Lindeberg USA operating agreement contains buy-out provisions for its members. The operating agreement of our 50% owned subsidiary, J. Lindeberg USA, LLC provides that the other 50% owner, J. Lindeberg USA Corp., has the option to purchase our 50% share of J. Lindeberg USA, LLC at a negotiated purchase price. In accordance with the operating agreement, J. Lindeberg has two call option periods, the first of which ends on June 30, 2011 and provides for a purchase price of four times a negotiated amount, and the second call option which continues for the duration of the operating agreement, and provides for a purchase price of two times a negotiate amount. If J. Lindeberg USA Corp. purchases our 50% interest in J. Lindeberg USA, LLC pursuant to the terms of the operating agreement or otherwise, our sales and future projected growth may be adversely impacted. 10 We may require additional capital in the future. We may not be able to fund our future retail growth or react to competitive pressures if we lack sufficient funds. We are currently evaluating various financing strategies to be used to expand our retail business and fund future growth, including the opening of new retail stores. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flows from our operating activities and pursuant to our factoring arrangements, and the net proceeds from the settlement of our Charlotte Russe litigation will be sufficient to fund our minimum working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next twelve months. The extent of our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our results of operations. We may also need to raise additional capital if our working capital requirement s or capital expenditures are greater than we expect, or if we expand our business by acquiring or investing in additional brands. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, any additional funding may result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. Our William Rast business is a collaboration with Tennman WR-T, Inc., an entity owned in part by Justin Timberlake. Should our relationship with our partner deteriorate, our sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. Certain of our consolidated subsidiaries that we manage have the exclusive rights to manufacture clothing and accessories under the William Rast tradename. We share ownership of these subsidiaries with Tennman WR-T, Inc., an entity controlled by Justin Timberlake. In the event that our relationships with Tennman and Justin Timberlake deteriorate, our sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. Failure to manage our growth and expansion could impair our business. We believe that we are poised for growth in 2011. but no assurance can be given that we will be successful in maintaining or increasing our sales in the future. Any future growth in sales will require additional working capital and may place a significant strain on our management, management information systems, inventory management, sourcing capability, distribution facilities and receivables credit management. Any disruption in our order processing, sourcing or distribution systems could cause orders to be shipped late, and under industry practices, retailers generally can cancel orders or refuse to accept goods due to late shipment. Such cancellations and returns would result in a reduction in revenue, increased administrative and shipping costs, further burden on our distribution facilit ies and also adversely impact our relations with retailers. Increasing the number of branded company-operated stores will require us to develop new capabilities and increase our expenditures. Our growth strategy is dependent in part on our ability to open and operate new retail stores and the availability of suitable store locations on acceptable terms. Although we operated seven branded retail stores as of December 31, 2010, we historically have been primarily a wholesaler. In the second and third quarters of 2010, we opened a J. Lindeberg full price retail store and a William Rast full price retail store in Miami, Florida. These store openings are part of our retail expansion plan which contemplates the roll-out of additional retail stores in major metropolitan locations over the next several years. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other factors, the identification of suitable markets and sites for new store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, train ing and retention of competent sales personnel, and extent of capital expenditures, if any, for these stores. We must also appropriately manage retail inventory levels, install and operate effective retail systems, execute effective pricing strategies and integrate our stores into our overall business mix. An increase in the number of branded company-operated stores will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources and require us to further develop our retailing skills and capabilities. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores and in our more established wholesale 11 businesses. The commitments associated with our expansion will increase our operating expenses and may be costly to terminate. In addition, these investments may be difficult to recapture if we decide to close a store or change our strategy. We operate in a seasonal business, and our failure to timely deliver products to market will negatively impact our profitability. The apparel industry is a seasonal business in which our financial success is largely determined by seasonal events such as the commencement of the school year and holiday seasons. In the event that we are unable to supply our products to the marketplace in a timely manner as a consequence of manufacturing delays, shipping delays, or other operational delays, our sales and profitability will be negatively impacted. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Management expects that we will experience substantial variations in our net sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that the factors which influence this variability of quarterly results include: - the timing of our introduction of new product lines and our ability to respond quickly to new trends; - the level of consumer acceptance of each new product line; - general economic and industry conditions that affect consumer spending and retailer purchasing; - the availability of manufacturing capacity; - the timing of trade shows; - the product mix of customer orders; - the return of defective merchandise; - the timing of the placement or cancellation of customer orders; - transportation delays; - quotas and other regulatory matters; - the lack of credit approval of our customers from our factors; - the occurrence of charge backs in excess of reserves; and - the timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales and actions of competitors. As a result of fluctuations in our revenue and operating expenses that may occur, management believes that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in some future quarter or quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that case, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or decline. The financial condition of our customers could affect our results of operations. Certain retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, financial difficulties, which increase the risk of extending credit to such retailers and the risk that financial failure will eliminate a customer entirely. These retailers have attempted to improve their own operating efficiencies by concentrating their purchasing power among a narrowing group of vendors. There can be no assurance that we will remain a preferred vendor for our existing customers. A decrease in business from or loss of a major customer, such as one customer that accounted for 15.8% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010, and the two customers that accounted for approximately 36.6% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009, one of which was Charlotte Russe, could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. There can be no assurance that our factors will approve the extension of credit to certain retail customers in the future. If a customer’s credit is not approved by our factors or sales to a customer exceed the related factor’s imposed limits, we could assume the collection risk on sales to the customer. 12 Our dependence on independent manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials reduces our ability to control the manufacturing process, which could harm our sales, reputation and overall profitability. We depend on full package suppliers, independent contract manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials to secure a sufficient supply of raw materials and maintain sufficient manufacturing and shipping capacity in an environment characterized by declining prices, labor shortage, continuing cost pressures and increased demands for product innovation and speed-to-market. This dependence could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. In addition, a contractor’s failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or failure to meet the required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. The failure to make timely deliveries may cause our customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries, impose non-compl iance charges through invoice deductions or other charge-backs, demand reduced prices or reduce future orders, any of which could harm our sales, reputation and overall profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2010, three suppliers accounted for approximately 71% of our consolidated purchases. For the year ended December 31, 2009, three suppliers accounted for approximately 59% of our purchases. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers, and any of these suppliers may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. While management believes that there exists an adequate amount of suppliers to provide products and services to us, to the extent that we are not able to secure or maintain relationships with suppliers that are able to fulfill our requirements, our business would be harmed. We do not control our suppliers or their labor practices. The violation of federal, state or foreign labor laws by one of our suppliers could subject us to fines and result in our goods that are manufactured in violation of such laws being seized or their sale in interstate commerce being prohibited. To date, we have not been subject to any sanctions that, individually or in the aggregate, have had a material adverse effect on our business, and we are not aware of any facts on which any such sanctions could be based. There can be no assurance, however, that in the future we will not be subject to sanctions as a result of violations of applicable labor laws by our suppliers, or that such sanctions will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. The loss of or inability to enforce the trademarks “William Rast” and “People’s Liberation” and our other proprietary designs, know-how and trade secrets could adversely affect our business. If any third party independently develops similar products to ours or manufactures knock-offs of our products, it may be costly to enforce our rights and we would not be able to compete as effectively. Additionally, the laws of foreign countries may provide inadequate protection of intellectual property rights, making it difficult to enforce such rights in those countries. We may need to bring legal claims to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources. In addition, notwithstanding the rights we have secured in our intellectual property, third parties may bring claims against us alleging that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights or that our intellectual property rights are not valid. Any claims against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend or litigate and therefore could have an adverse affect on our business. 13 The loss of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Colin Dyne, could have an adverse effect on our future development and could significantly impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. Our success is largely dependent upon the expertise and knowledge of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Colin Dyne, whom we rely upon to formulate our business strategy. As a result of the unique skill set and responsibilities of Mr. Dyne, the loss of Mr. Dyne could have a material adverse effect on our business, development, financial condition, and operating results. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our management, including Mr. Dyne. Our failure to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including section 404, could have a material adverse affect on our business and stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. We have prepared for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal control over financial reporting to provide the basis for our report. The process of strengthening our internal control over financial reporting and complying with Section 404 was expensive and time consuming, and required significant management attention. We cannot be certain that the measures we have undertaken will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and rep orting in the future. Furthermore, if we are able to rapidly grow our business, the internal control over financial reporting that we will need will become more complex, and significantly more resources will be required to ensure our internal control over financial reporting remains effective. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our auditors discover a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, the disclosure of that fact, even if the weakness is quickly remedied, could diminish investors’ confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading, ineligibility for listing on one of the Nasdaq Stock Markets or national securities exch anges, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. Risks Related to Our Industry Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions and the current weakness in the global economy. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers and distributors, our largest direct customers. Consumer spending has deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of high-end fashion apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income declines. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, t he availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open or operate new retail stores or maintain sales levels at existing stores, or maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the United States or global economy, including the current downturn in the United States. 14 We operate in a highly competitive industry and the success of our business depends on our ability to overcome a variety of competitive challenges. We operate our business in the premium contemporary segment of the apparel industry. Currently, our competitors include companies and brands such as True Religion, Seven For All Mankind, Diesel, Guess, J Brand and Joe’s Jeans. We face a variety of competitive challenges including: - anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands that are dictated in part by fashion and season; - developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes and styles that appeal to consumers; - competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; and - the need to provide strong and effective marketing support to maintain the image of our brands. Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to these competitive challenges depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising and marketing staff. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. In addition, our competitors may have greater financial resources than we do which could limit our ability to respond quickly to market demands. In the event that we are not successful in addressing the competitive challenges we face, we could lose market share to our competitors and consequently our stock price could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Since trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be sporadic, you may have difficulty reselling your shares of our common stock. In the past, our trading price has fluctuated as the result of many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. In addition, because the trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on an exchange, you may have difficulty reselling any of our common shares. We have a limited trading volume and shares eligible for future sale by our current stockholders may adversely affect our stock price. To date, we have had a very limited trading volume in our common stock. For instance, for the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 1.6 million shares of our common stock were traded and for the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 4.9 million shares of our common stock were traded. As long as this condition continues, the sale of a significant number of shares of common stock at any particular time could be difficult to achieve at the market prices prevailing immediately before such shares are offered. Our common stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile as the stock market in general has been highly volatile. Factors that could cause such volatility in our common stock may include, among other things: - actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; - changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; - conditions or trends in our industry or in the economy in general; and - changes in the market valuations of other comparable companies. 15 We do not foresee paying dividends in the near future. We have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying such dividends in the foreseeable future. Our officers and directors own a significant portion of our common stock, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions. Our officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 28.2% of our outstanding voting shares as of March 17, 2011. In addition, Gerard Guez owns approximately 29.7% of our outstanding voting shares. As a result, our officers and directors, and Mr. Guez, are able to exert influence over the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including the election of our Board of Directors. The voting power of these stockholders could also discourage others from seeking to acquire control of us through the purchase of our common stock, which might depress the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 