Item 1A. Risk Factors Several of the matters discussed in this document contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors associated with the forward-looking statements that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or forecast are included in the statements below. In addition to other information contained in this report, readers should carefully consider the following cautionary statements. Risks Related To Our Business Our growth and operating results could be materially, adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in resolving a dispute that now exists regarding our rights under our agreement with Charlotte Russe. We are in litigation with Charlotte Russe and its affiliates in relation to our exclusive distribution agreement, which Charlotte Russe purported to terminate on October 26, 2009. We have filed an action against Charlotte Russe in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles, Central District (Versatile Entertainment, Inc. v. Charlotte Russe Merchandising, Inc., BC424674) seeking a declaratory judgment that the termination was invalid and alleging other causes of action, including breach of contract by Charlotte Russe. We also filed an action against Advent International Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, and David Mussafer and Jenny J. Ming in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles, Central District (Versatile Entertainment, Inc. v. Advent International Corporation, BC424675) asserting one cause of action for intentional interference with a contract. Advent International Corporation, through its subsidiaries, acquired Charlotte Russe in October 2009. Charlotte Russe has served a complaint against us in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles, Central District (Charlotte Russe Holding, Inc. vs. Versatile Entertainment, Inc., BC424734) asserting claims for rescission of the distribution agreement, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, restitution after rescission and breach of contract. We derived a significant portion of our revenues and operating cash flow from the sale of People’s Liberation branded merchandise pursuant to the distribution agreement. In the first year of the contract, we received approximately $5.5 million through December 31, 2009 as required by the distribution agreement and we are owed $59.5 million in guaranteed minimum payments over the remainder of the term of the agreement, which amount may be reduced if Charlotte Russe elects to terminate the agreement early, beginning July 2011 with an early termination fee. As a result of Charlotte Russe’s purported termination of the distribution agreement, Charlotte Russe ceased to make their contractually obligated payments to us, which significantly decreased our net sales and cash flows from operations of our People’s Liberation business. We also believe our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted if we are unable to collect factored accounts receivable in the amount of approximately $575,000 related to goods shipped to Charlotte Russe prior to the dispute and if we are unable to reach a settlement in a manner acceptable to us or the ensuing litigation, which is currently in its early stage, is not resolved in a manner favorable to us. Additionally, we may continue to incur significant legal fees in our litigation with Charlotte Russe, and unless the cases are settled, we will continue to incur additional expenses in increasing amounts as the cases move toward trial. 9 We may require additional capital in the future. We may not be able to fund our future growth or react to competitive pressures if we lack sufficient funds. We are currently evaluating various financing strategies to be used to expand our business and fund future growth, including the opening of new retail stores. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flows from our operating activities and pursuant to our factoring arrangements, including availability under our inventory facilities, should be sufficient to fund our minimum working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next twelve months. The extent of our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our results of operations and our ability to mitigate the impact of Charlotte Russe’s purported termination of our exclusive distribution agreement through cost cutting and other measures. We may also need to raise additional capital if our working capital requirements or capital expenditures are greater than we expect, or if we expand our business by acquiring or investing in additional brands. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, any additional funding may result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. Our J. Lindeberg clothing line is a collaboration with J. Lindeberg USA Corp, a wholly-owned subsidiary of J. Lindeberg AB. Should our relationship with our partner deteriorate, our profitability may be negatively impacted. J. Lindeberg USA, LLC, which is 50% owned by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Bella Rose, and 50% owned by J. Lindeberg USA Corp, a wholly-owned subsidiary of J. Lindeberg AB, has the exclusive rights to source, market, and distribute J. Lindeberg™ branded apparel in the United States on an exclusive basis. We manage J. Lindeberg USA and will be required to contribute up to a maximum of $1.5 million in working capital or related guaranties through December 2010. J. Lindeberg AB is required to make available to J. Lindeberg USA for purchase all new collections of J. Lindeberg™ branded apparel, and provide for the factory-direct purchase by J. Lindeberg USA of J. Lindeberg™ branded apparel on terms no less favorable to J. Lindeberg USA then terms received by J. Lindeberg AB or its affiliates for the same or substantially the same merchandise. In addition, the agreements establishing the relationship between the parties provide for a license from J. Lindeberg AB to J. Lindeberg USA of the J. Lindeberg™ mark and other related marks for use in the United States on an exclusive basis for a period of 25 years. In the event that our relationship with J. Lindeberg AB deteriorates or if the business operations of J. Lindeberg AB deteriorate, J. Lindeberg AB may be unable to fulfill its contractual obligation to us, including providing us with design, sourcing and timely product delivery. If J. Lindeberg AB fails to fulfill its contractual obligations to us, our sales and profitability could be negatively impacted. Our William Rast business is a collaboration with William Rast Enterprises, LLC, an entity owned in part by Justin Timberlake. Should our relationship with our partner deteriorate, our sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. Certain of our consolidated subsidiaries that we manage have the exclusive rights to manufacture clothing and accessories under the William Rast tradename. We share ownership of these subsidiaries with William Rast Enterprises, LLC, an entity controlled by Justin Timberlake. In the event that our relationships with William Rast Enterprises and Justin Timberlake deteriorate, our sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. Failure to manage our growth and expansion could impair our business. We believe that we are poised for growth in 2010 for our William Rast and J. Lindeberg brands. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in maintaining or increasing our sales in the future. Any future growth in sales of these brands will require additional working capital and may place a significant strain on our management, management information systems, inventory management, sourcing capability, distribution facilities and receivables credit management. Any disruption in our order processing, sourcing or distribution systems could cause orders to be shipped late, and under industry practices, retailers generally can cancel orders or refuse to accept goods due to late shipment. Such cancellations and returns would result in a reduction in revenue, increased administrative and shipping costs, further burden on our distribution facilities and also adversely impact our relations with retailers. 10 Increasing the number of branded company-operated stores will require us to develop new capabilities and increase our expenditures. Our growth strategy is dependent in part on our ability to open and operate new William Rast and J. Lindeberg branded retail stores and the availability of suitable store locations on acceptable terms. Although we operated 5 branded retail stores as of December 31, 2009, we historically have been primarily a wholesaler. In the third quarter of 2010, we plan to open a William Rast full price retail store and a J. Lindeberg full price retail store in Miami, Florida. These store openings are part of our retail expansion plan which contemplates the roll-out of approximately forty retail stores in major metropolitan locations over the next several years. We anticipate opening between three and five retail stores in 2010, including the two retail stores in Miami. In 2011, we anticipate opening between six and twelve retail stores. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other factors, the identification of suitable markets and sites for new store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and extent of capital expenditures, if any, for these stores. We must also appropriately manage retail inventory levels, install and operate effective retail systems, execute effective pricing strategies and integrate our stores into our overall business mix. An increase in the number of branded company-operated stores will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources and require us to further develop our retailing skills and capabilities. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores and in our more established wholesale businesses. The commitments associated with our expansion will increase our operating expenses and may be costly to terminate. In addition, these investments may be difficult to recapture if we decide to close a store or change our strategy. We operate in a seasonal business, and our failure to timely deliver products to market will negatively impact our profitability. The apparel industry is a seasonal business in which our financial success is largely determined by seasonal events such as the commencement of the school year and holiday seasons. In the event that we are unable to supply our products to the marketplace in a timely manner as a consequence of manufacturing delays, shipping delays, or other operational delays, our sales and profitability will be negatively impacted. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Management expects that we will experience substantial variations in our net sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that the factors which influence this variability of quarterly results include: - the timing of our introduction of new product lines; - the level of consumer acceptance of each new product line; - general economic and industry conditions that affect consumer spending and retailer purchasing; - the availability of manufacturing capacity; - the timing of trade shows; - the product mix of customer orders; - the return of defective merchandise; - the timing of the placement or cancellation of customer orders; - transportation delays; - quotas and other regulatory matters; - the lack of credit approval of our customers from our factor; - the occurrence of charge backs in excess of reserves; and - the timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales and actions of competitors. 11 As a result of fluctuations in our revenue and operating expenses that may occur, management believes that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in some future quarter or quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that case, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or decline. The financial condition of our customers could affect our results of operations. Certain retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, financial difficulties, which increase the risk of extending credit to such retailers and the risk that financial failure will eliminate a customer entirely. These retailers have attempted to improve their own operating efficiencies by concentrating their purchasing power among a narrowing group of vendors. There can be no assurance that we will remain a preferred vendor for our existing customers. A decrease in business from or loss of a major customer, such as the two customers that accounted for approximately 36.6% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009, one of which was Charlotte Russe, and the one customer that accounted for 28.9% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008, respectively, could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. There can be no assurance that our factor will approve the extension of credit to certain retail customers in the future. If a customer’s credit is not approved by the factor or sales to a customer exceed the factor’s imposed limits, we could assume the collection risk on sales to the customer. Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products. A portion of our import operations are subject to tariffs imposed on imported products and quotas imposed by trade agreements. In addition, the countries into which our products are imported may from time to time impose additional new duties, tariffs or other restrictions on their imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or our suppliers’ failure to comply with customs or similar laws, could harm our business. We cannot assure that future trade agreements will not provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization. Generally, these trade agreements benefit our business by reducing or eliminating the duties assessed on products or other materials manufactured in a particular country. However, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect our business, such as limiting the countries from which we can purchase raw materials and setting duties or restrictions on products that may be imported into the United States from a particular country. Our ability to import raw materials in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by problems at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as labor disputes. These problems could require us to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to our customers. These alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Our dependence on independent manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials reduces our ability to control the manufacturing process, which could harm our sales, reputation and overall profitability. We depend on full package suppliers, independent contract manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials to secure a sufficient supply of raw materials and maintain sufficient manufacturing and shipping capacity in an environment characterized by declining prices, labor shortage, continuing cost pressures and increased demands for product innovation and speed-to-market. This dependence could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. In addition, a contractor’s failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or failure to meet the required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. The failure to make timely deliveries may cause our customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries, impose non-compliance charges through invoice deductions or other charge-backs, demand reduced prices or reduce future orders, any of which could harm our sales, reputation and overall profitability. 12 For the year ended December 31, 2009, three suppliers accounted for approximately 59 % of our consolidated purchases. For the year ended December 31, 2008, three suppliers accounted for approximately 35% of our purchases. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers, and any of these suppliers may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. While management believes that there exists an adequate amount of suppliers to provide products and services to us, to the extent that we are not able to secure or maintain relationships with suppliers that are able to fulfill our requirements, our business would be harmed. We do not control our suppliers or their labor practices. The violation of federal, state or foreign labor laws by one of our suppliers could subject us to fines and result in our goods that are manufactured in violation of such laws being seized or their sale in interstate commerce being prohibited. To date, we have not been subject to any sanctions that, individually or in the aggregate, have had a material adverse effect on our business, and we are not aware of any facts on which any such sanctions could be based. There can be no assurance, however, that in the future we will not be subject to sanctions as a result of violations of applicable labor laws by our suppliers, or that such sanctions will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. The loss of or inability to enforce the trademarks “William Rast” and “People’s Liberation” and our other proprietary designs, know-how and trade secrets could adversely affect our business. If any third party independently develops similar products to ours or manufactures knock-offs of our products, it may be costly to enforce our rights and we would not be able to compete as effectively. Additionally, the laws of foreign countries may provide inadequate protection of intellectual property rights, making it difficult to enforce such rights in those countries. We may need to bring legal claims to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources. In addition, notwithstanding the rights we have secured in our intellectual property, third parties may bring claims against us alleging that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights or that our intellectual property rights are not valid. Any claims against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend or litigate and therefore could have an adverse affect on our business. The loss of Chief Executive Officer, Colin Dyne, could have an adverse effect on our future development and could significantly impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. Our success is largely dependent upon the expertise and knowledge of our Chief Executive Officer, Colin Dyne, whom we rely upon to formulate our business strategy. As a result of the unique skill set and responsibilities of Mr. Dyne, the loss of Mr. Dyne could have a material adverse effect on our business, development, financial condition, and operating results. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our management, including Mr. Dyne. 13 The requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including section 404, are burdensome, and our failure to comply with them could have a material adverse affect on our business and stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting and, beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to annually attest to our evaluation and issue their own opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. We have prepared for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal control over financial reporting to provide the basis for our report. The process of strengthening our internal control over financial reporting and complying with Section 404 was expensive and time consuming, and required significant management attention. We cannot be certain that the measures we have undertaken will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Furthermore, if we are able to rapidly grow our business, the internal control over financial reporting that we will need will become more complex, and significantly more resources will be required to ensure our internal control over financial reporting remains effective. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our auditors discover a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, the disclosure of that fact, even if the weakness is quickly remedied, could diminish investors’ confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading, ineligibility for listing on one of the Nasdaq Stock Markets or national securities exchanges, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. Risks Related to Our Industry Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions and the current global financial crisis. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers and distributors, our largest direct customers. Consumer spending recently has deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of high-end fashion apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income declines. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open or operate new retail stores or maintain sales levels at existing stores, or maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the United States or global economy, including the current downturn in the United States. We operate in a highly competitive industry and the success of our business depends on our ability to overcome a variety of competitive challenges. We operate our business in the premium contemporary segment of the apparel industry. Currently, our competitors include companies and brands such as True Religion, Seven For All Mankind, Diesel, Guess, J Brand and Joe’s Jeans. We face a variety of competitive challenges including: - anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands that are dictated in part by fashion and season; - developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes and styles that appeal to consumers; - competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; and - the need to provide strong and effective marketing support to maintain our brand image. 14 Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to these competitive challenges depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising and marketing staff. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. In addition, our competitors may have greater financial resources than we do which could limit our ability to respond quickly to market demands. In the event that we are not successful in addressing the competitive challenges we face, we could lose market share to our competitors and consequently our stock price could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Since trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be sporadic, you may have difficulty reselling your shares of our common stock. In the past, our trading price has fluctuated as the result of many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. In addition, because the trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on an exchange, you may have difficulty reselling any of our common shares. We have a limited trading volume and shares eligible for future sale by our current stockholders may adversely affect our stock price. To date, we have had a very limited trading volume in our common stock. For instance, for the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 4.9 million shares of our common stock were traded and for the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock were traded. As long as this condition continues, the sale of a significant number of shares of common stock at any particular time could be difficult to achieve at the market prices prevailing immediately before such shares are offered. Our common stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile as the stock market in general has been highly volatile. Factors that could cause such volatility in our common stock may include, among other things: - actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; - changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; - conditions or trends in our industry or in the economy in general; and - changes in the market valuations of other comparable companies. We do not foresee paying dividends in the near future. We have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying such dividends in the foreseeable future. Our officers and directors own a significant portion of our common stock, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions. Our officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 26.9% of our outstanding voting shares as of March 8, 2010. In addition, Gerard Guez, a relative of our founder and former chief executive officer and director, Daniel Guez, owns approximately 28.0% of our outstanding voting shares. As a result, our officers and directors, and Mr. Guez, are able to exert influence over the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including the election of our Board of Directors. The voting power of these stockholders could also discourage others from seeking to acquire control of us through the purchase of our common stock, which might depress the price of our common stock. 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 