Item 1A. Risk Factors Several of the matters discussed in this document contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors associated with the forward-looking statements that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or forecast are included in the statements below. We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could impact our operations. In addition to other information contained in this report, the following risk factors highlight some of the factors that have affected, and in the future, could affect our operations: We are dependent on our license agreement with JC Penney for revenue. We expect that our revenue under our license agreement with JC Penney will represent a significant portion of our total revenues during the term of the agreement. Because the amount of our revenues under the JC Penney agreement are dependent on the sales of William Rast branded products in JC Penney stores, our revenue potential is impacted by the number of JC Penney stores and the patronage at these stores, and JC Penney’s ability and/or commitment to manufacture and market William Rast branded products. In addition, the termination of the JC Penney agreement would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The failure of our licensees to adequately produce, market and sell products bearing our brand names in their license categories or to pay their obligations under their license agreements could result in a decline in our results of operations. Our revenues are almost entirely dependent on royalty payments made to us under our licensing agreements. Although the licensing agreements for our brands usually require the advance payment to us of a portion of the licensing fees and in most cases provide for guaranteed minimum royalty payments to us, the failure of our licensees to satisfy their obligations under these agreements or their inability to operate successfully or at all, could result in their breach and/or the early termination of such agreements, their non-renewal of such agreements or our decision to amend such agreements to reduce the guaranteed minimums or sales royalties due thereunder, thereby eliminating some or all of that stream of revenue. Moreover, during the terms of the license agreements, we are substantially dependent upon the abilities of our licensees to maintain the quality and marketability of the products bearing our trademarks, as their failure to do so could materially tarnish our brands, thereby harming our future growth and prospects. In addition, the failure of our licensees to meet their production, manufacturing and distribution requirements could cause a decline in their sales and potentially decrease the amount of royalty payments (over and above the guaranteed minimums) due to us. A weak economy or softness in the apparel and retail sectors could exacerbate this risk. This, in turn, could decrease our potential revenues and harm our stock price. 8 Our business is dependent on continued market acceptance of our brands and the products of our licensees bearing these brands. Although most of our licensees guarantee minimum net sales and minimum royalties to us, a failure of our brands or of products bearing our brands to achieve or maintain market acceptance could cause a reduction of our licensing revenues and could further cause existing licensees not to renew their agreements. Such failure could also cause the devaluation of our trademarks, which are our primary assets, making it more difficult for us to renew our current licenses upon their expiration or enter into new or additional licenses for our trademarks. In addition, if such devaluation of our trademarks were to occur, a material impairment in the carrying value of one or more of our trademarks could also occur and be charged as an expense to our operating results. Continued market acceptance of our brands and our licensees’ products, as well as market acceptance of any future products bearing our brands, is subject to a high degree of uncertainty, made more so by constantly changing consumer tastes and preferences. Maintaining market acceptance of our licensees’ products and creating market acceptance of new products and categories of products bearing our marks will require our continuing marketing efforts, which may, from time to time, also include our expenditure of significant additional funds to keep pace with changing consumer demands. Additional marketing efforts and expenditures may not, however, result in either increased market acceptance of, or additional licenses for, our trademarks or increased market acceptance, or sales of our licensees’ products. Furthermore, while we believe that we currently maintain sufficient control over the products our licensees’ produce under our William Rast brand name through the provision of trend and design direction and our right to preview and approve products, including their presentation and packaging, we do not actually design or manufacture products bearing our marks and therefore have more limited control over such products’ quality and design than we had in our historical operations. If we are unable to identify and successfully acquire additional trademarks, our rate of growth may be reduced, and even if additional trademarks are acquired, we may not realize anticipated benefits due to integration or licensing difficulties. A key component of our growth strategy is the acquisition of additional trademarks. We are exploring new acquisitions. However, as our competitors continue to pursue our brand management model, acquisitions may become more expensive and suitable acquisition candidates could become more difficult to find. In addition, even if we successfully acquire additional trademarks or the rights to use additional trademarks, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability levels that justify our investment in, or realize planned benefits with respect to, those additional brands. Although we seek to temper our acquisition risks, acquisitions, whether they be of additional intellectual property assets or of the companies that own them, entail numerous risks, any of which could detrimentally affect our results of operations and/or the value of our equity. These risks include, among others: • unanticipated costs associated with the target acquisition; • negative effects on reported results of operations from acquisition related charges and amortization of acquired intangibles; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the challenges of maintaining focus on, and continuing to execute, core strategies and business plans as our brand and license portfolio grows and becomes more diversified; 9 • adverse effects on existing licensing relationships; • potential difficulties associated with the retention of key employees, and the assimilation of any other employees, who may be retained by us in connection with or as a result of our acquisitions; and • risks of entering new domestic and international markets (whether it be with respect to new licensed product categories or new licensed product distribution channels) or markets in which we have limited prior experience. In the event we acquire intellectual property assets or the companies that own them, our due diligence reviews are subject to inherent uncertainties and may not reveal all potential risks. We may therefore fail to discover or inaccurately assess undisclosed or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for which we may have responsibility as a successor to the seller or the target company. As a successor, we may be responsible for any past or continuing violations of law by the seller or the target company. Although we generally attempt to seek contractual protections through representations, warranties and indemnities, we cannot be sure that we will obtain such provisions in our acquisitions or that such provisions will fully protect us from all unknown, contingent or other liabilities or costs. Finally, claims against us relating to any acquisition may necessitate our seeking claims against the seller for which the seller may not, or may not be able to, indemnify us or that may exceed the scope, duration or amount of the sellers’ indemnification obligations. Acquiring additional trademarks could also have a significant effect on our financial position and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly operating results. Acquisitions could result in the recording of significant goodwill and intangible assets on our financial statements, the amortization or impairment of which would reduce our reported earnings in subsequent years. No assurance can be given with respect to the timing, likelihood or financial or business effect of any possible transaction. Moreover, as discussed below, our ability to grow through the acquisition of additional trademarks will also depend on the availability of capital to complete the necessary acquisition arrangements. In the event that we are unable to obtain debt financing on acceptable terms for a particular acquisition, we may elect to pursue the acquisition through the issuance by us of shares of our common stock (and, in certain cases, convertible securities) as equity consideration, which could dilute our common stock because it could reduce our earnings per share, and any such dilution could reduce the market price of our common stock unless and until we were able to achieve revenue growth or cost savings and other business economies sufficient to offset the effect of such an issuance. As a result, there is no guarantee that our stockholders will achieve greater returns as a result of any future acquisitions we complete. We may require additional capital to finance the acquisition of additional brands and our inability to raise such capital on beneficial terms or at all could restrict our growth. We may, in the future, require additional capital to help fund all or part of potential acquisitions. If, at the time required, we do not have sufficient cash to finance those additional capital needs, we will need to raise additional funds through equity and/or debt financing. We cannot guarantee that, if and when needed, additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If additional capital is needed and is either unavailable or cost prohibitive, our growth may be limited as we may need to change our business strategy to slow the rate of, or eliminate, our expansion plans. In addition, any additional financing we undertake could impose additional covenants upon us that restrict our operating flexibility, and, if we issue equity securities to raise capital, our existing stockholders may experience dilution or the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because of the intense competition within our licensees’ markets and the strength of some of their competitors, we and our licensees may not be able to continue to compete successfully. Our trademark licenses are for products in the apparel and fashion accessories markets, in which our licensees face intense competition. In general, competitive factors include quality, price, style, name recognition and service. In addition, various fads and the limited availability of shelf space could affect competition for our licensees’ products. Many of our licensees’ competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than our licensees and have achieved significant name recognition for their brand names. Our licensees may be unable to successfully compete in the markets for their products, and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully with respect to our licensing arrangements. 10 If our competition for retail licenses and brand acquisitions increases, or our current direct-to-retail licensee elects not to renew their license or renew on terms less favorable than today, our growth plans could be slowed. We may face increasing competition in the future for direct-to-retail licenses as other companies owning brands may decide to enter into licensing arrangements with retailers similar to the one we currently have in place. Furthermore, our current or potential direct-to-retail licensees may decide to develop or purchase brands rather than renew or enter into license agreements with us. This increased competition could result in lower sales of products offered by our direct-to-retail licensee under our brand. We also compete with traditional apparel and consumer brand companies, other brand management companies and private equity groups for brand acquisitions. If our competition for retail licenses and brand acquisitions increases, it may take us longer to procure additional retail licenses and/or acquire additional brands, which could slow our growth rate. Our licensees are subject to risks and uncertainties of foreign manufacturing and the price, availability and quality of raw materials that could interrupt their operations or increase their operating costs, thereby affecting their ability to deliver goods to the market, reduce or delay their sales and decrease our potential royalty revenues. Substantially all of the products sold by our licensees are manufactured overseas. There are substantial risks associated with foreign manufacturing, including changes in laws relating to quotas, and the payment of tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic developments. Further, our licensees may experience fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics and raw materials used by them in their manufactured apparel or purchased finished goods. Any of these risks could increase our licensees’ operating costs. Our licensees also import finished products and assume all risk of loss and damage with respect to these goods once they are shipped by their suppliers. If these goods are destroyed or damaged during shipment, the revenues of our licensees, and thus our royalty revenues over and above the guaranteed minimums, could be reduced as a result of our licensees’ inability to deliver or their delay in delivering their products. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. The loss of or inability to enforce the trademarks “William Rast” and “People’s Liberation” and our other proprietary designs, know-how and trade secrets could adversely affect our business. If any third party independently develops similar products to ours or manufactures knock-offs of our products, it may be costly to enforce our rights and we would not be able to compete as effectively. Additionally, the laws of foreign countries may provide inadequate protection of intellectual property rights, making it difficult to enforce such rights in those countries. We may need to bring legal claims to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources. In addition, notwithstanding the rights we have secured in our intellectual property, third parties may bring claims against us alleging that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights or that our intellectual property rights are not valid. Any claims against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend or litigate and therefore could have an adverse affect on our business. 11 The loss of our Chief Executive Officer, Colin Dyne, could have an adverse effect on our future development and could significantly impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. Our success is largely dependent upon the expertise and knowledge of our Chief Executive Officer, Colin Dyne, whom we rely upon to formulate our business strategies. As a result of the unique skill set and responsibilities of Mr. Dyne, the loss of Mr. Dyne could have a material adverse effect on our business, development, financial condition, and operating results. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our management, including Mr. Dyne. The company’s obligations under its debentures are secured by substantially all of the assets of the company and its subsidiaries. In the event we default in our obligations under the debentures, TCP may foreclose on all of our assets. On February 2, 2012, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with TCP WR Acquisition, LLC (“TCP”). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement we sold $14,500,000 in Variable Rate Senior Secured Convertible Debentures (the “Debentures”), warrants to purchase common stock and Series A Preferred Stock to TCP. In connection with the financing, our subsidiaries, Versatile Entertainment, Bella Rose, William Rast Sourcing, William Rast Licensing, LLC and William Rast Retail executed a Subsidiary Guarantee in favor of TCP pursuant to which such subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under the Debentures. In addition, the company and the above mentioned subsidiaries entered into a security agreement with TCP pursuant to which such parties granted to TCP a first priority security interest in all of their assets to secure our obligations under the Debentures and such subsidiaries’ obligations under the Subsidiary Guarantee. TCP, in certain circumstances, may foreclose on our assets, including all of our intellectual property, if we make certain limited defaults under the Debentures. If we lose all or a substantial portion of our assets, our shares may significantly decline in value. Our William Rast business is a collaboration with Tennman WR-T, Inc., an entity owned in part by Justin Timberlake. Should our relationship with our partner deteriorate, our sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. Certain of our consolidated subsidiaries that we manage have the exclusive rights to manufacture clothing and accessories under the William Rast tradename. We share ownership of these subsidiaries with Tennman WR-T, Inc., an entity controlled by Justin Timberlake. In the event that our relationships with Tennman and Justin Timberlake deteriorate, our sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Management expects that we will experience substantial variations in our revenue and operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that the factors which influence this variability of quarterly results include: ·the timing of the introduction of new licensed products by our licensees; ·the level of consumer acceptance of our brands and licensed products; ·general economic and industry conditions that affect consumer spending and retailer purchasing; ·the availability of viable licensees that meet our brand criteria; and ·the timing of our marketing expenditures. As a result of fluctuations in our revenue and operating expenses that may occur, management believes that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in some future quarter or quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that case, our stock price could fluctuate significantly. 12 Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions and the current weakness in the global economy. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers and distributors, who license our brands. Consumer spending has deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of high-end fashion apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income declines. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industry, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, our licensees may not be able to maintain or increase sales of our branded products to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open or operate new retail stores or maintain sales levels at existing stores. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the United States or global economy, including the current downturn in the United States. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. The publicly traded shares of our common stock have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could change significantly over short periods of time in response to actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, announcements by us, our licensees or our respective competitors, factors affecting our licensees’ markets generally and/or changes in national or regional economic conditions, making it more difficult for shares of our common stock to be sold at a favorable price or at all. The market price of our common stock could also be reduced by general market price declines or market volatility in the future or future declines or volatility in the prices of stocks for companies in the trademark licensing business or companies in the industries in which our licensees compete. Future sales of our common stock may cause the prevailing market price of our shares to decrease. In addition, the future issuance of common stock may dilute the holdings of our then existing stockholders. We have issued a substantial number of shares of common stock that are eligible for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, and that may become freely tradable. We have also already registered a substantial number of shares of common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of options. If the holders of our options choose to exercise their purchase rights and sell the underlying shares of common stock in the public market, or if holders of currently restricted shares of our common stock choose to sell such shares in the public market under Rule 144 or otherwise, the prevailing market price for our common stock may decline. In addition, the issuance of shares upon the exercise or conversion of our derivative securities, including, without limitations, the exercise of approximately 16.6 million warrants which are currently outstanding and the conversion of $14,500,000 of outstanding debentures into common stock, could also further dilute the holdings of our then existing stockholders. Since trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be sporadic, you may have difficulty reselling your shares of our common stock. In the past, our trading price has fluctuated as the result of many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. In addition, because the trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on an exchange, you may have difficulty reselling any of our common shares. 13 We have a limited trading volume and shares eligible for future sale by our current stockholders may adversely affect our stock price. To date, we have had a very limited trading volume in our common stock. For instance, for the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 2.6 million shares of our common stock were traded and also for the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 1.6 million shares of our common stock were traded. As long as this condition continues, the sale of a significant number of shares of common stock at any particular time could be difficult to achieve at the market prices prevailing immediately before such shares are offered. We do not foresee paying dividends in the near future. We have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying such dividends in the foreseeable future. Our officers and directors and their affiliates own a significant portion of our common stock, which limits our stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions. Our officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 79.6% of our outstanding voting shares as of March 17, 2012. As a result, our officers and directors are able to control the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including the election of our Board of Directors. The voting power of these stockholders could also discourage others from seeking to acquire control of the company through the purchase of our common stock, which might depress the price of our common stock. The Purchase Agreement entered into with TCP prevents us from taking certain actions without TCP’s consent. The Purchase Agreement we entered into with TCP in February 2012 contains negative covenants that prohibit us and our subsidiaries from taking certain actions without TCP’s prior consent until the later of February 3, 2014 and the date that TCP’s beneficial ownership of our common stock is less than 40% of our fully diluted common stock. The negative covenants apply to, with certain exceptions, issuing debt or equity securities; acquiring assets or equity interests of third parties, disposing of assets or equity interests of subsidiaries, entering into joint ventures, or engaging in other types of merger and acquisition transactions; paying or declaring dividends; settling litigation; entering into transactions with affiliates; dissolving or commencing bankruptcy proceedings; or changing our principal lines of business. As a result, TCP has significant control over the operations of our business, which could discourage others from seeking to acquire control of the company through the purchase of our common stock, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 