ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Current unfavorable economic and market conditions, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have significant customer sales both in the U.S. and internationally. We are also reliant upon U.S. and international suppliers, manufacturing partners and distributors. We are therefore susceptible to adverse U.S. and international economic and market conditions, including the challenging economic conditions that have prevailed and continue to prevail in the U.S. and worldwide. The recent turmoil in the financial markets has resulted in dramatically higher borrowing costs which have made it more difficult (in some cases, prohibitively so) for many companies to obtain credit and fund their working capital obligations. If any of our manufacturing partners, customers, distributors or suppliers experiences serious financial difficulties or ceases operations, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the adverse impact of the credit crisis on consumers, including higher unemployment rates, is expected to adversely impact consumer spending, which will adversely impact demand for consumer products such as certain end products in which our chips are embedded. In addition, prices of certain commodities, including oil, metals, grains and other food products, are volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. High or volatile commodity prices increase the cost of doing business and adversely affect consumers’ discretionary spending. As a result of the difficulty that businesses (including our customers) may have in obtaining credit, the increasing and/or volatile costs of commodities and the decreased consumer spending that is the likely result of the credit market crisis, unemployment and commodities’ price volatility, continued global economic and market turmoil are likely to have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The trading price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile due to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, and each of which could adversely affect our stockholders’ value. The trading price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile due to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: Ÿ quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; Ÿ announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, design wins, commercial relationships or capital commitments; Ÿ the perceptions of general market conditions in the semiconductor industry and global market conditions; Ÿ our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; Ÿ any major change in our board or management; Ÿ changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory compliance; 18 Table of Contents Ÿ recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates concerning us or our customers or competitors; Ÿ announcements about our earnings or the earnings of our competitors that are not in line with analyst expectations; Ÿ the volume of short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions on shares of our common stock; Ÿ economic conditions and growth expectations in the markets we serve; and Ÿ general economic and credit conditions. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We face significant volatility in supply and demand conditions for our products, and this volatility, as well as any failure by us to accurately forecast future supply and demand conditions, could materially and negatively impact our business. The semiconductor industry has historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, semiconductors. Demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of various electronics industries that use our products, including, but not limited to: Ÿ wireless telecommunications equipment; Ÿ computers and computer-related peripherals; Ÿ memory and image sensors; Ÿ networking equipment and Ÿ consumer electronics including mobile handsets, automotive electronics and industrial controls. Any downturn or reduction in the growth of these industries could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We order materials and build our products based primarily on our internal forecasts, customer and distributor forecasts and secondarily on existing orders, which may be cancelled under many circumstances. Because our markets are volatile and subject to rapid technological and price changes, our forecasts may be wrongly causing us to make too many or too few of certain products. Also, our customers frequently place orders requesting product delivery almost immediately after the order is made, which makes forecasting customer demand even more difficult, particularly when supply is abundant. If we experience inadequate demand or a significant shift in the mix of product orders that makes our existing capacity and capability inadequate, our fixed costs per semiconductor produced will increase, which will harm our financial condition and results of operations. Alternatively, if we should experience a sudden increase in demand, we will need to quickly ramp our inventory and/or manufacturing capacity to adequately respond to our customers. If we or our manufacturing partners are unable to ramp our inventory or manufacturing capacity in a timely manner or at all, we risk losing our customers’ business, which could have a negative impact on our financial performance and reputation. In connection with our exit from our Texas facility, we completed a final build of a substantial volume of inventory for certain products previously manufactured at this facility totaling approximately $10.6 million net of sales through fiscal 2010. This inventory now represents our sole source of supply for certain products and is intended to meet forecasted demand for these products for periods ranging from 6 months to 15 years. To the extent that our forecasts of demand for any of these products prove to be inaccurate, we could be unable to meet customer demand and/or write-off significant quantities of obsolete inventory, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010 based 19 Table of Contents upon current economic conditions, we re-evaluated the demand forecast related to these long term builds and determined that an additional excess and obsolete write-down was required. As of January 2, 2011, the total excess and obsolete write-down recorded for this inventory was approximately $5.9 million. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed if we fail to compete successfully in our highly competitive industry and markets. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. This intense competition results in a difficult operating environment that is marked by erosion of average selling prices over the life of each product and rapid technological change resulting in limited product life cycles. In order to offset selling price decreases, we attempt to decrease the manufacturing costs of our products and to introduce new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts are not successful or do not occur in a timely manner, or if our newly introduced products do not gain market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving semiconductor technology industry depends on many factors, including: Ÿ our success in developing and marketing new products, software platforms and manufacturing technologies and bringing them to market on a timely basis; Ÿ the quality and price of our products; Ÿ the diversity of our product lines; Ÿ the cost effectiveness of our design, development, manufacturing, support and marketing efforts, especially as compared to our competitors; Ÿ our customer service and customer satisfaction; Ÿ our ability to successfully execute our flexible manufacturing initiative; Ÿ the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their systems, as is sometimes evidenced by design wins; Ÿ the number, strength and nature of our competitors, the markets they target and the rate of their technological advances; Ÿ the success of certain of our development activity which is a part of our Emerging Technologies business segment; Ÿ general economic conditions; and Ÿ our access to and the availability of working capital. Although we believe we currently compete effectively in the above areas to the extent they are within our control, given the pace of change in the industry, our current abilities are not guarantees of future success. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. Our financial results could be adversely impacted if we fail to develop, introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new technologies. Like many semiconductor companies, which operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that customers choose to buy. Our new products, for example PSoC3 and 5 and TrueTouch® are an important strategic focus for us and therefore, they tend to consume a significant amount of resources. The new products the market requires tend to be increasingly complex, incorporating more functions and operating at faster speeds than old products. Increasing complexity generally requires smaller features on a chip. This makes manufacturing new generation of products substantially more difficult than prior generations. Despite the significant amount of resources we commit to new products, there can be no guarantee that such products will perform as expected or at all, be introduced on time to meet customer schedules or gain market acceptance. If we fail to introduce new product designs in a timely manner or are unable to manufacture products 20 Table of Contents according to the requirements of these designs, or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products, or market demand for our new products does not materialize as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. The complex nature of our manufacturing activities, our broad product portfolio, and our increasing reliance on third party manufacturers makes us highly susceptible to manufacturing problems and these problems can have a substantial negative impact on us if they occur. Making semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Even very small impurities in our manufacturing materials, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other problems in the wafer fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous chips on each wafer to be non-functional. We and, similarly, our third party foundry partners, may experience problems in achieving an acceptable success rate in the manufacture of wafers and the likelihood of facing such difficulties is higher in connection with the transition to new manufacturing methods. The interruption of wafer fabrication or the failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields at any of our facilities, or the facilities of our third-party foundry partners, would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and test operations and in the introduction of new packaging materials. We are increasingly dependent upon third-parties to manufacture, distribute, generate a significant portion of our sales, fulfill our customer orders and transport our products and problems in the performance or availability of these companies could seriously harm our financial performance. Although a majority of our products were fabricated in our manufacturing facilities located in Minnesota and the Philippines, we rely to a significant extent on independent contractors to manufacture our products. We expect to increase this reliance on third party manufacturing in the future. For example, in December 2008, we substantially completed the exit of our manufacturing facility in Texas and transferred certain production to our more cost-competitive facility in Minnesota and outside foundries. In addition, if market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity and available capacity from our foundry partners, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements. A shortage in foundry manufacturing capacity, which is more likely to occur at times of increasing demand, could hinder our ability to meet demand for our products and therefore adversely affect our operating results. In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by any such foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases. Our operations would be disrupted if any of our foundry partners terminates its relationship with us or has financial issues and we are unable to arrange a satisfactory alternative to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. However, there are only a few foundry vendors that have the capabilities to manufacture our most advanced products. If we engage alternative sources of supply, we may encounter start-up difficulties and incur additional costs. Also, shipments could be delayed significantly while these sources are qualified for volume production. While a high percentage of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our manufacturing facility located in the Philippines, we rely on independent subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products. We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms or at all and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so. Our channel partners include distributors and resellers. We continue to expand and change our relationships with our distributors and see an increase in the proportion of our revenues generated from our distributor channel in the future. Worldwide sales through our distributors accounted for approximately 65% of our net sales during 2010. We rely on many distributors to assist us in creating customer demand, providing technical support and other value-added services to our customers, filling customer orders and stocking our products. We face ongoing business risks due to our reliance on our channel partners to create and maintain customer relationships where we have a limited or no direct relationship. Should our relationships with our channel partners or their effectiveness 21 Table of Contents decline, we face the risk of declining demand which could affect our results of operations. Our contracts with our distributor may be terminated by either party upon notice. In addition, our distributors are located all over the world and are of various sizes and financial conditions. Any disruptions to our distributors’ operations such as lower sales, lower earnings, debt downgrades, the inability to access capital markets and higher interest rates could have an adverse impact on our business. We also rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers’ facilities. Transport or delivery problems due to their error or because of unforeseen interruptions in their business due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters or accidents could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers. If our products contain defects, it could result in loss of future revenue, decreased market acceptance, injury to our reputation and product liability claims. The programmability of our products, including PSoC products requires use of our proprietary software products. Our future success increasingly depends on our ability to develop and introduce new software products to enhance our programmable portfolio of products. Further, software products occasionally contain errors or defects, especially when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our semiconductor products also may contain defects which affect their performance. We cannot be certain that our products are currently or will be completely free of defects and errors. We could lose revenue as a result of product defects or errors. In addition, the discovery of a defect or error in a new version or product may result in the following consequences, among others: Ÿ delayed shipping of the products; Ÿ delay in or failure to achieve market acceptance; Ÿ diversion of development resources; Ÿ damage to our reputation; Ÿ material product liability claims; and Ÿ increased service and warranty costs. As we gain market acceptance of our proprietary design software, we expect our software products to become more critical to our customers. Thus, a defect or error in our products could result in a significant disruption to our customers’ businesses. If we are unable to develop products that are free of defects or errors, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately and may face significant expenses as a result of ongoing or future litigation. The protection of our intellectual property rights, as well as those of our subsidiaries, is essential to keeping others from copying the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. It may be possible for an unauthorized third party to reverse-engineer or decompile our software products. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Furthermore, our flexible fab initiative requires us to enter into technology transfer agreements with external partners, providing third party access to our intellectual property and resulting in additional risk. In some cases, these technology transfer and/or license agreements are with foreign companies and subject our intellectual property to foreign countries which may afford less protection and/or result in increased costs to enforce such agreements. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into these kinds of licensing arrangements in the future. Consequently, we may become involved in litigation, in the United States or abroad, to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of invalidity. We are also from time to time involved in litigation relating to alleged 22 Table of Contents infringement by us of others’ patents or other intellectual property rights. Moreover, a key element of our strategy is to enter new markets with our products. If we are successful in entering these new markets, we will likely be subject to additional risks of potential infringement claims against us as our technologies are deployed in new applications and face new competitors. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights, particularly in certain international markets, making misappropriation of our intellectual property more likely. Patent litigation, if necessary or if and when instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Intellectual property litigation is frequently expensive to both the winning party and the losing party and could take up significant amounts of management’s time and attention. In addition, if we lose such a lawsuit, a court could find that our intellectual property rights are invalid, enabling our competitors to use our technology, or require us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties or prohibit us from using essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this type of litigation could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, although in certain instances we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If credit market conditions do not continue to improve or if they worsen, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults and other financial, economic and credit issues have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. If the global credit market does not continue to improve or if it deteriorates, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio includes $23.7 million of auction rate securities which are investments with contractual maturities generally between 20 and 30 years. They are usually found in the form of municipal bonds, preferred stock, a pool of student loans or collateralized debt obligations with interest rates resetting every seven to 49 days through an auction process. At the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. The auction rate securities held by us are backed by student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP), which are guaranteed by the United States Federal Department of Education. As of January 2, 2011, all of our auction rate securities held by us were rated as either AAA or Aaa by the major independent rating agencies and all of our auction rate securities have experienced failed auctions due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. These failures are not believed to be a credit issue with the underlying investments, but rather caused by a lack of liquidity. Under the contractual terms, the issuer is obligated to pay penalty rates should an auction fail. In the event we need to access these funds associated with failed auctions, they are not expected to be accessible until one of the following occurs: a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the issue, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities have matured. Given these circumstances and the lack of liquidity, our auction rate securities totaling approximately $23.7 million are classified as long-term investments as of January 2, 2011. We performed analyses to assess the fair value of the auction rate securities and determined that a decline in value had occurred. Based on certain assumptions, we estimated that the auction rate securities would be valued at approximately 90% of their stated par value as of January 2, 2011, representing a decline in value of 23 Table of Contents approximately $2.6 million. If the financial market continues to deteriorate, future downgrades could potentially impact the rating of our auction rate securities. Unfavorable outcome of litigation pending against us could materially impact our business. We are currently a party to various legal proceedings, claims, disputes and litigation. For example, we are a defendant in certain alleged patent infringement cases filed by third parties. Our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any of these or other pending or future litigation. There can be no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation. Although we believe we have meritorious defenses to each of these matters and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves, such litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and our view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. We face additional problems and uncertainties associated with international operations that could seriously harm us. International revenues historically accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues. Our manufacturing, assembly, test operations and certain finance operations located in the Philippines, as well as our international sales offices and design centers, face risks frequently associated with foreign operations including but not limited to: Ÿ currency exchange fluctuations; Ÿ the devaluation of local currencies; Ÿ political instability; Ÿ labor issues; Ÿ the impact of natural disasters on local infrastructures; Ÿ changes in local economic conditions; Ÿ import and export controls; Ÿ potential shortage of electric power supply; and Ÿ changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates. To the extent any such risks materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. To a greater degree than most non-technology companies, we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product and process engineers. We compete for these individuals with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. From time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. Even if such key personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. If we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Our financial results could be adversely impacted if our Emerging Technologies businesses fail to develop and successfully bring to market new and proprietary products. We have made a financial and personnel commitment to our Emerging Technologies businesses. Despite the significant amount of resources we commit to our Emerging Technologies businesses, there can be no guarantee 24 Table of Contents that such Emerging Technologies businesses will perform as expected or at all, launch new products and solutions as expected or gain market acceptance. If our Emerging Technologies businesses’ fail to introduce new product and solutions or successfully develop new technologies, or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating the products or solutions offered by our Emerging Technologies businesses or market demand for the products or solutions offered by our Emerging Technologies businesses do not materialize as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Any guidance that we may provide about our business or expected future results may differ significantly from actual results. From time to time we have shared our views in press releases or SEC filings, on public conference calls and in other contexts about current business conditions and our expectations as to potential future results. Correctly identifying the key factors affecting business conditions and predicting future events is inherently an uncertain process especially in these very uncertain economic times. Our analyses and forecasts have in the past and, given the complexity and volatility of our business, will likely in the future, prove to be incorrect and could be materially incorrect. We offer no assurance that such predictions or analyses will ultimately be accurate, and investors should treat any such predictions or analyses with appropriate caution. Any analysis or forecast that we make which ultimately proves to be inaccurate may adversely affect our stock price. We are subject to many different environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and directives, and compliance with them may be costly. We are subject to many different international, federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to, among other things, the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process and the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. We cannot assure you that we have been, or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by the regulators. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible, without regard to fault, for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. For example, certain liabilities could also arise in connection with the shutdown activities related to our Texas manufacturing facility. While we are taking reasonable steps to ensure the Texas facility closure complies with all applicable federal, state and local environmental laws, the shutdown process is complicated, and if issues were to arise, they could delay the sale of certain of the facilities and manufacturing equipment. Over the last several years, there has been increased public awareness of the potentially negative environmental impact of semiconductor manufacturing operations. This attention and other factors may lead to changes in environmental regulations that could force us to purchase additional equipment or comply with other potentially costly requirements. If we fail to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could face substantial liability or suspension of our manufacturing operations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the material composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union (Restriction on the Use of Hazardous Substances Directive 2002/95/EC, also known as the “RoHS Directive”) and similar legislation in China and California. Other countries, including at the federal and state levels in the United States, are also considering laws and regulations similar to the RoHS Directive. Certain electronic products that we maintain in inventory may be rendered obsolete if they are not in compliance with the RoHS Directive or similar laws and regulations, which could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue from those products. Our customers and other companies in the supply chain may require us to certify that our products are RoHS compliant. 25 Table of Contents Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs or decreased revenue, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products. Our operations and financial results could be severely harmed by certain natural disasters. Our headquarters in California, manufacturing facilities in the Philippines and some of our major vendors’, subcontractors’ and strategic partners’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults or are subject to seasonal typhoons or other extreme weather conditions. We have not been able to maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs to address the risks posed by potential natural disasters. Instead, we rely on self-insurance and preventative/safety measures. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster occurs, we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment, or make alternative arrangements in the event a vendor, subcontractor or partner’s facility or equipment was damaged, and we could suffer damages that could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain self-insurance for certain indemnities we have made to our officers and directors. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify our officers and directors for certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their service to us. We self-insure with respect to these indemnifiable claims. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities for which we self-insure, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. We may utilize debt financing and such indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, earnings per share and our ability to meet our payment obligations. We routinely incur indebtedness to finance our operations and at times we have had significant amounts of outstanding indebtedness and substantial debt service requirements. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any amended credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet payment obligations under indebtedness we may under take from time to time. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under any indebtedness we owe. As of January 2, 2011, we had no debt outstanding. We have implemented and will implement future new Oracle-based applications to manage our worldwide financial, accounting and operations reporting, and disruptions in such tools could adversely affect the integrity of our financial data and our business generally. We have implemented various Oracle-based tools, including but not limited to, a trade management system. We have taken what we believe are appropriate measures and performed testing to ensure the successful and timely implementation. However, implementations of this scope have inherent risks that in the extreme could lead to a disruption in our financial, accounting and operations reporting as well as the inability to obtain access to key financial data, any of which would materially and adversely affect our business. Changes in U.S. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially impact our business. A majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the U.S. U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, because such earnings are 26 Table of Contents intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. In the past, the administration has considered initiatives which could substantially reduce our ability to defer U.S. taxes including: limitations on deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminate utilization or substantially reduce our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S. If any of these proposals are constituted into law, they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), and from time to time we are subject to income tax audits or similar proceedings in other jurisdictions in which we do business, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties which will negatively impact our operating result. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. For example, we are under examination for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 by the IRS. The results of these audits are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay additional amounts to the applicable tax authority. This would result in a decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits or increase of actual tax liabilities which could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we received a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), that the spin-off of SunPower was eligible for tax-free treatment under Internal Revenue Code Section 355. We also obtained an opinion of counsel on certain aspects of the spin-off assumed in the ruling. Both the IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of SunPower’s and our business. The SunPower spin-off transaction remains subject to audit, and despite the private letter ruling, the IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction. If the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, it will be treated as a material taxable distribution to our stockholders in an amount equal to the fair market value of SunPower’s equity securities (i.e., SunPower’s common stock issued to our stockholders) received by them. In addition, we would be required to recognize a material gain in an amount up to the fair market value of the SunPower equity securities that we distributed on the distribution date. The accumulation of changes in our shares by “5-percent stockholders” could trigger an ownership change for U.S. income tax purposes, in which case our ability to utilize our net operating losses would be limited and therefore impact our future tax benefits. Cypress is a publicly traded company whose stockholders can change on a daily basis. These changes are beyond our control. The U.S. Internal Revenue Code (Section 382) restricts a company’s ability to benefit from net operating loses if a “Section 382 Ownership Change” occurs. An ownership change for purposes of U.S. tax law Section 382 may result from ownership changes that increase the aggregate ownership of “5-percent stockholders,” by more than 50 percentage points over a testing period, generally three years (“Section 382 Ownership Change”). To our knowledge, we have not experienced a Section 382 Ownership Change. We cannot give any assurance that we will not experience a Section 382 Ownership Change in future years. Our ability to add or replace distributors is limited. Our distributors are contracted by us to perform two primary, yet distinct, functions that are difficult to replace: Ÿ distributors provide logistics support, such as order entry, credit, forecasting, inventory management, and shipment of product, to end customers. The process of integrating systems to allow for electronic data interchange is complex and can be time consuming. Ÿ distributors create demand for our products at the engineering level. This mandates the training of an extended distributor sales force, as well as hiring and training specialized applications engineers skilled in promoting and servicing products at the engineering level. 27 Table of Contents In addition, our distributors’ expertise in the determination and stocking of acceptable inventory levels may not be easily transferable to a new distributor. Also, end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 