ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE ARE A MAJORITY SHAREHOLDER OF SUNPOWER. UNDER THIS SECTION, WE HAVE INCLUDED CERTAIN IMPORTANT RISK FACTORS THAT SPECIFICALLY IMPACT SUNPOWER'S BUSINESS, OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. FOR MORE DISCUSSION OF SUNPOWER AND THE RISKS AFFECTING SUNPOWER, INVESTORS SHOULD REFER TO SUNPOWER'S ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 30, 2007. THE CONTENTS OF SUCH ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K ARE EXPRESSLY NOT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE HEREIN. 20 The trading price for Cypress's common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and can be affected by the trading price of SunPower's class A common stock and/or speculation about the possibility of future actions we might take in connection with our SunPower holdings. The trading price of Cypress's common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile due to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: •quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; •perceptions of general market conditions in the semiconductor industry and global market conditions; •our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; •any major change in our board or management; •changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory compliance; •recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates concerning us; •announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; •announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; •short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions on shares of our common stock; •economic conditions and growth expectations in the markets in which our customers participate; and •general economic conditions. In addition, the implied market value of SunPower's class B common stock we hold has, since SunPower's initial public offering, been significant relative to the total value of Cypress's outstanding common stock. As a result, the trading price of Cypress's common stock has been and likely will continue to be affected by the trading price for SunPower's class A common stock, actions taken or statements made by us, SunPower or others concerning the potential separation of SunPower from us, and other factors related to SunPower's business. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. The solar power industry is currently experiencing an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon. This shortage poses several risks to SunPower's business, including possible constraints on revenue growth and possible decreases in SunPower's and Cypress's gross margins and profitability. Polysilicon is an essential raw material in the production of SunPower's solar cells. SunPower procures silicon ingots from suppliers on a contractual basis and then slice the ingots into wafers. The ingots are sliced and the wafers are processed into solar cells in SunPower's Philippines manufacturing facility. SunPower also purchases wafers and polysilicon from third-party vendors. 21 There is currently an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, which has resulted in significant price increases. SunPower expects that the average spot price of polysilicon will continue to increase in the near-term. Increases in polysilicon prices have in the past increased SunPower's manufacturing costs and may impact SunPower's manufacturing costs and net income in the future. Even with these price increases, demand for solar cells has increased, and many of SunPower's principal competitors have announced plans to add additional manufacturing capacity. As this manufacturing capacity becomes operational, it may increase the demand for polysilicon in the near-term and further exacerbate the current shortage. Polysilicon is also used in the semiconductor industry generally and any increase in demand from that sector will compound the shortage. The production of polysilicon is capital intensive and adding additional capacity requires significant lead time. While SunPower is aware that several new facilities for the manufacture of polysilicon are under construction, SunPower does not believe that the supply imbalance will be remedied in the near-term. SunPower expects that polysilicon demand will continue to outstrip supply through much of fiscal 2008 and potentially for a longer period. Although SunPower has arrangements with vendors for the supply of what it believes will be an adequate amount of silicon ingots through fiscal 2008, SunPower's purchase orders are sometimes non-binding in nature. SunPower's estimates regarding its supply needs may not be correct, and purchase orders or contracts may be cancelled by its suppliers. Additionally, the volume and pricing associated with these purchase orders and contracts may be changed by SunPower's suppliers based on market conditions or for other reasons. If SunPower's suppliers were to cancel purchase orders or change the volume or pricing associated with them, SunPower may be unable to meet customer demand for its products, which could cause SunPower to lose customers, market share and revenue. This would have a material negative impact on SunPower's and Cypress's business and operating results. If SunPower's manufacturing yields decrease significantly, SunPower adds manufacturing capacity faster than currently planned or SunPower's suppliers cancel or fail to deliver, SunPower may not have made adequate provision for polysilicon needs for its manufacturing plans through fiscal 2008. In addition, since some of SunPower's silicon ingot and wafer arrangements are with suppliers who do not themselves manufacture polysilicon but instead purchase their requirements from other vendors, these suppliers may not be able to obtain sufficient polysilicon to satisfy their contractual obligations to SunPower. There are a limited number of polysilicon suppliers. Many of SunPower's competitors also purchase polysilicon from the same suppliers. Some of them also have inter-locking board members with their polysilicon suppliers or have entered into joint ventures or binding supply contracts with their suppliers. Additionally, a substantial amount of SunPower's future polysilicon requirements are expected to be sourced by new suppliers that have not yet proven their ability to manufacture large volumes of polysilicon. In some cases, SunPower expects that new entrants will provide it with polysilicon, ingots and/or wafers. The failure of these new entrants to produce adequate supplies of polysilicon, ingots and/or wafers in the quantities and quality SunPower requires could adversely affect SunPower's ability to grow production volumes and revenues and could also result in a decline in SunPower's gross profit margins. Since SunPower has committed to significantly increase its manufacturing output, an inadequate supply of polysilicon would harm SunPower more than it would harm some of its competitors. Additionally, the steps SunPower has taken to further increase the efficiency of its polysilicon utilization are unproven at volume production levels and may not enable SunPower to realize the cost reductions it anticipates. Given the polysilicon shortage, SunPower believes the efficient use of polysilicon will be critical to its ability to reduce manufacturing costs. SunPower continues to implement several measures to increase the efficient use of polysilicon in its manufacturing process. Although SunPower has implemented production using thinner wafers and anticipates further reductions in wafer thickness, these methods may have unforeseen negative consequences on its yields or solar cell 22 efficiency or reliability once they are put into large-scale commercial production, or they may not enable SunPower to realize the cost reductions it hopes to achieve. SunPower's inability to obtain sufficient polysilicon, ingots or wafers at commercially reasonable prices or at all for any of the foregoing reasons, or otherwise, would adversely affect its ability to meet existing and future customer demand for its products and could cause SunPower to make fewer shipments, lose customers and market share and generate lower than anticipated revenue, thereby seriously harming SunPower's and Cypress's business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant volatility in supply and demand conditions for our products, and this volatility, as well as any failure by us to accurately forecast future supply and demand conditions, could materially and negatively impact our business. The semiconductor industry has historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, semiconductors. Demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of various electronics industries that use our products, including, but not limited to: •wireless telecommunications equipment; •computers and computer-related peripherals; •memory and image sensors; •networking equipment; •consumer electronics, automotive electronics and industrial controls; and •solar power products. In addition, certain of our products, including USB micro-controllers and clocks, are incorporated into computer and computer-related products, which have historically experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in demand. Any downturn or reduction in the growth of these industries could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We order materials and build our products based primarily on our internal forecasts and secondarily on existing orders, which may be cancelled under many circumstances. Because our markets are volatile and subject to rapid technological and price changes, our forecasts may be wrong causing us to make too many or too few of certain products. Also, our customers frequently place orders requesting product delivery almost immediately after the order is made, which makes forecasting customer demand even more difficult, particularly when supply is abundant. If we experience inadequate demand or a significant shift in the mix of product orders that makes our existing capacity and capability inadequate, our fixed costs per semiconductor produced will increase, which will harm our financial condition and results of operations. Alternatively, if we should experience a sudden increase in demand, we will need to quickly ramp our inventory and/or manufacturing capacity to adequately respond to our customers. If we are unable to ramp our inventory or manufacturing capacity in a timely manner or at all, we risk losing our customers' business, which could have a negative impact on our financial performance and reputation. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed if we fail to compete successfully in our highly competitive industry and markets. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. This intense competition results in a difficult operating environment that is marked by erosion of average selling prices over the life of each product and rapid technological change resulting in limited product life cycles. In order to offset selling price decreases, we attempt to decrease the manufacturing costs of our products and to introduce new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts are not successful or do not 23 occur in a timely manner, or if our newly introduced products do not gain market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving semiconductor technology industry depends on many factors, including: •our success in developing new products, software platforms and manufacturing technologies; •the quality and price of our products; •the diversity of our product line; •the cost effectiveness of our design, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts, especially as compared to our competitors; •our customer service; •our customer satisfaction; •our ability to successfully execute our flexible fab initiative; •the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their systems; •the number, strength and nature of our competitors, the markets they target and the rate of their technological advances; •general economic conditions; and •our access to and the availability of capital. Although we believe we currently compete effectively in the above areas to the extent they are within our control, given the pace of change in the industry, our current abilities are not a guarantee of future success. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. Our financial results could be adversely impacted if we fail to develop, introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new technologies. Like many semiconductor companies, which operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that customers choose to buy. Our new products are important sources of revenue for us and therefore, they tend to consume a significant amount of resources. The new products the market requires tend to be increasingly complex, incorporating more functions and operating at faster speeds than old products. Increasing complexity generally requires smaller features on a chip. This makes manufacturing new generation of products substantially more difficult than prior generations. Despite the significant amount of resources we commit to new products, there can be no guarantee that such products will perform as expected or at all, or gain market acceptance. If we fail to introduce new product designs in a timely manner or are unable to manufacture products according to the requirements of these designs, or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products, or market demand for our new products does not exist as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. The complex nature of our manufacturing activities makes us highly susceptible to manufacturing problems and these problems can have a substantial negative impact on us when they occur. Making semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Even very small impurities in our manufacturing materials, defects in the 24 masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other problems in the wafer fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous chips on each wafer to be non-functional. We and, similarly, our third party foundry partners, may experience problems in achieving an acceptable success rate in the manufacture of wafers and the likelihood of facing such difficulties is higher in connection with the transition to new manufacturing methods. The interruption of wafer fabrication or the failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields at any of our facilities, or the facilities of our third-party foundry partners, would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and test operations and in the introduction of new packaging materials. In addition, the manufacturing of SunPower's solar cells is a highly complex process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and in some cases, cause production to be suspended or yield no output. SunPower has from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies or equipment. As SunPower expands its manufacturing capacity and bring additional lines or facilities into production, SunPower may experience lower yields initially as is typical with any new equipment or process. SunPower also expects to experience lower yields as SunPower continues the initial migration of its manufacturing processes to thinner wafers. If SunPower does not achieve planned yields, its product costs could increase, and product availability would decrease resulting in lower revenues than expected. We are increasingly dependent upon third-parties to manufacture, distribute and transport our products and problems in the performance or availability of these companies could seriously harm our financial performance. Although a portion of our products are currently fabricated in our manufacturing facilities located in Texas, Minnesota and the Philippines, we rely to a significant extent on independent contractors to manufacture our products. We expect to increase this reliance on third party manufacturing in the future. For example, in December 2007, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit our manufacturing facility in Texas and transfer production to our more cost-competitive facility in Minnesota and outside foundries. In addition, if market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity and available capacity from our foundry partners, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements. A shortage in foundry manufacturing capacity, which is more likely to occur at times of increasing demand, could hinder our ability to meet demand for our products and therefore adversely affect our operating results. In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by any such foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases. Our operations would be disrupted if any of our foundry partners terminates its relationship with us and we are unable to arrange a satisfactory alternative to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. However, there are only a few foundry vendors that have the capabilities to manufacture our most advanced products. If we engage alternative sources of supply, we may encounter start-up difficulties and incur additional costs. Also, shipments could be delayed significantly while these sources are qualified for volume production. While a high percentage of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our manufacturing facility located in the Philippines, we rely on independent subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products. We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms or at all and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so. Our channel partners include distributors and resellers. We continue to expand and change our relationships with our distributors and see an increase in the proportion of our revenues generated 25 from our distributor channel in the future. For example, during the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we intend to negotiate new terms with some of the distributors in Asia and under these new terms, these distributors will be provided with price protection and stock rotation rights. We rely on many distributors to assist us in creating customer demand, providing technical support and other value- added services to our customers, filling customer orders and stocking our products. We face ongoing business risks due to our reliance on our channel partners to create and maintain customer relationships where we have a limited or no direct relationship. Should our relationships with our channel partners or their effectiveness decline, we face risk of declining demand which could affect our results of operations. In addition, our distributors are located all over the world and are of various sizes and financial conditions. Any disruptions to our distributors' operations could have an adverse impact on our business, including the implementation of new terms for our distributors in Asia as discussed above. We also rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers. Transport or delivery problems due to their error or because of unforeseen interruptions in their business due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters or accidents could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers. If the software products that accompany our hardware contain unknown defects, it could result in loss of future revenue, decreased market acceptance, injury to our reputation and product liability claims. The programmability of our PSoC products requires use of our proprietary software products. Our future success increasingly depends on our ability to develop and introduce new software products to enhance our PSoC portfolio of products. Further, software products occasionally contain errors or defects, especially when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. We cannot be certain that our products are currently or will be completely free of defects and errors. We could lose revenue as a result of product defects or errors. In addition, the discovery of a defect or error in a new version or product may result in the following consequences, among others: •delayed shipping of the products; •delay in or failure to achieve market acceptance; •diversion of development resources; •damage to our reputation; •product liability claims; and •increased service and warranty costs. As we gain market acceptance of our proprietary design software, we expect our software products to become more critical to our customers. Thus, a defect or error in our products could result in a significant disruption to our customers' businesses. If we are unable to develop products that are free of defects or errors, or if we fail to introduce new software products in a timely manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. SunPower will continue to be dependent on a limited number of third-party suppliers for key components for its solar systems products during the near-term, which could prevent SunPower from delivering products to its customers within required timeframes, which could result in installation delays, cancellations, liquidated damages and loss of market share. In addition to SunPower's reliance on a small number of suppliers for its solar cells and panels, SunPower relies on third-party suppliers for key components for its solar power systems, such as inverters that convert the direct current electricity generated by solar panels into alternating current 26 electricity usable by the customer. If SunPower fails to develop or maintain its relationships with its limited suppliers, it may be unable to manufacture its products or its products may be available only at a higher cost or after a long delay, which could prevent SunPower from delivering its products to customers within required timeframes and SunPower may experience order cancellation and loss of market share. To the extent the processes that SunPower's suppliers use to manufacture components are proprietary, SunPower may be unable to obtain comparable components from alternative suppliers. The failure of a supplier to supply components in a timely manner, or to supply components that meet SunPower's quality, quantity and cost requirements, could impair SunPower's ability to manufacture its products or decrease its costs. If SunPower cannot obtain substitute materials on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, SunPower could be prevented from delivering its products to customers within required timeframes, which could result in installation delays, cancellations, liquidated damages and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on SunPower's and Cypress's business and results of operations. A limited number of SunPower's customers are expected to continue to comprise a significant portion of SunPower's total revenues and any decrease in revenue from these customers could have a material adverse effect on SunPower and Cypress. Even though SunPower's customer base is expected to increase and its revenue streams to diversify, a substantial portion of SunPower's net revenues could continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers. The loss of sales to these customers would have a significant negative impact on SunPower's business. SunPower's agreements with these customers may be cancelled if SunPower fails to meet certain product specifications or materially breach the agreement or in the event of bankruptcy, and SunPower's customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. If the market for solar power products takes longer to develop than SunPower anticipates or does not develop at all, or if SunPower fails to compete successfully in the solar power market, its revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. The market for solar power products manufactured by SunPower is emerging and rapidly evolving. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for SunPower's products or solar power products generally fails to develop sufficiently or at all, SunPower's revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions SunPower targets may develop more slowly than it anticipates or not at all. Many factors will influence the adoption of solar power technology as well as SunPower's ability to compete in the solar power products market, including: •cost effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; •performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; •success in developing new products and manufacturing technologies; •ability to continue to ramp SunPower's manufacturing capacities; •the quality and price of SunPower's products; •the availability of the raw materials, including polysilicon, used in the production of solar cell products; •the number and nature of SunPower's competitors and general economic conditions; •access to and the availability of capital; 27 •success of alternative power generation technologies; •fluctuations in economic and market conditions which impact the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; •the possibility of future product failures and the warranty implications thereof; •availability of, and dependence on, subsidies and other incentives provided by various governmental agencies; and •existing or future regulations and policies that may present additional technical, economic or regulatory barriers. SunPower recognizes most of its revenues generated from SP Systems on a "percentage of completion" basis and upon the achievement of contractual milestone, so any delay or cancellation of a project could adversely affect SunPower's and Cypress's business and results of operations. SP Systems, which was acquired by SunPower in fiscal 2007, recognizes revenue on a "percentage of completion" basis and, as a result, the revenue from this business is driven by the performance of its contractual obligations, which is generally driven by the timelines of installation of its solar power systems at customer sites. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting for revenue recognition is inherently subjective because it relies on management estimates of total project cost as a basis for recognizing revenue and profit. Accordingly, revenue and profit SunPower has recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are potentially subject to adjustments in subsequent periods based on refinements in estimated costs of project completion that could materially impact SunPower's future revenue and profit. As with any project-related business, there is the potential for delays within any particular customer project. Variation of project timelines and estimates may impact SunPower's ability to recognize revenue in a particular period. Moreover, incurring penalties involving the return of the contract price to the customer for failure to timely install one project could negatively impact SunPower's ability to continue to recognize revenue on a "percentage of completion" basis generally for other projects. In addition, certain customer contracts may include payment milestones due at specified points during a project. Because SP Systems usually must invest substantial time and incur significant expense in advance of achieving milestones and the receipt of payment, failure to achieve such milestones could adversely affect SunPower's and Cypress' business and results of operations. The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives could cause SunPower's revenue to decline and harm SunPower's and Cypress's financial results. The market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer's electricity purchased from the utility network or sold to a utility under tariff, depends in large part on the availability and size of government and economic incentives. Because a majority of SunPower's sales are in the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives would adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, either of which could cause SunPower's revenue to decline and harm SunPower's and Cypress's financial results. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds retail electric rates in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Japan, Spain, Italy, Portugal, France, South Korea and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Spain has been a strong supporter of solar power 28 products and systems and political changes in Spain could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of feed-in tariffs. In the United States, the federal incentive tax credit for solar installations expires in its current form at the end of fiscal 2008, and many commercial customers and third-party financiers are increasingly unwilling to purchase solar systems unless this tax credit is extended. Some solar program incentives expire, decline over time, are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Net metering and other operational policies in California or other markets could limit the amount of solar power installed there. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, governmental incentives could result in decreased demand for and lower revenue from SunPower's products. Changes in the level or structure of a renewable portfolio standard could also result in decreased demand for and lower revenue from SunPower's products. During fiscal 2007, a significant share of systems revenues were derived from sales of solar power systems to companies formed to develop and operate solar power generation facilities. Such companies have been formed by third-party investors with some frequency in the United States, Spain, South Korea, and Portugal, as these investors seek to benefit from government mandated feed-in tariffs and similar legislation. SunPower's business depends in part on the continuing formation of such companies and the potential revenue source they represent. In deciding whether to form and invest in such companies, potential investors weigh a variety of considerations, including their projected return on investment. Such projections are based on current and proposed federal, state and local laws, particularly tax legislation. Expiration of or changes to these laws, including expiration of the U.S. solar incentive tax credit, amendments to existing tax laws or the introduction of new tax laws, tax court rulings as well as changes in interest rates, administrative guidelines, ordinances and similar rules and regulations could result in different tax assessments and may adversely affect an investor's projected return on investment, which could have a material adverse effect on SunPower's and Cypress's business and results of operations. The execution of SunPower's growth strategy for its systems business is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for its customers. For many of SunPower's projects, customers have entered into agreements to pay SunPower over an extended period of time based on energy savings generated by SunPower's solar power systems, rather than pay the full capital cost of purchasing the solar power systems up front. For these types of projects, many of SunPower's customers choose to purchase solar electricity under a power purchase agreement with a financing company that purchases the system from SunPower. These structured finance arrangements are complex and may not be feasible in many situations. In addition, customers opting to finance a solar power system may forgo certain tax advantages associated with an outright purchase on an accelerated basis which may make this alternative less attractive for certain potential customers. If customers are unwilling or unable to finance the cost of SunPower's products, or if the parties that have historically provided this financing cease to do so, or only do so on terms that are substantially less favorable for SunPower or these customers, SunPower's growth will be adversely affected. The success of SunPower's systems business will depend in part on the continuing formation of such companies and the potential revenue source they represent. In deciding whether to form and invest in such companies, potential investors weigh a variety of considerations, including their projected return on investment. Such projections are based on current and proposed federal, state and local laws, particularly tax legislation. Changes to these laws, including amendments to existing tax laws or the introduction of new tax laws, tax court rulings as well as changes in administrative guidelines, ordinances and similar rules and regulations could result in different tax consequences which may adversely affect an investor's projected return on investment, which could have a material adverse effect on SunPower's and Cypress's business and results of operations. 29 Third parties may seek to hold Cypress responsible for liabilities of SunPower. Third parties may seek to hold Cypress responsible for SunPower's liabilities. Under Cypress's separation agreements with SunPower, SunPower will indemnify Cypress for claims and losses relating to liabilities related to SunPower's business and not related to Cypress's business. However, if those liabilities are significant and Cypress is ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that Cypress will be able to recover the full amount of Cypress's losses from SunPower. Any guidance that we may provide about our business or expected future results may differ from actual results. From time to time we have shared our views in press releases or SEC filings, on public conference calls and in other contexts about current business conditions and our expectations as to potential future results. Correctly identifying the key factors affecting business conditions and predicting future events is inherently an uncertain process. Our analyses and forecasts have in the past and, given the complexity and volatility of our business, will likely in the future, prove to be incorrect. We offer no assurance that such predictions or analyses will ultimately be accurate, and investors should treat any such predictions or analyses with appropriate caution. In addition, we consolidate SunPower's financial results in the results of operations we report to the public in press releases and our SEC filings. SunPower's financial performance may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: •the average selling price of its solar cells and modules; •the availability and pricing of raw materials, particularly polysilicon; •the rate and cost at which it is able to expand its manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand; •timing, availability and changes in government incentive programs; •unplanned additional expenses such as manufacturing failures, defects or downtime; •the loss of one or more key customers or the significant reduction or postponement of orders from these customers; •foreign currency fluctuations, particularly in the Euro or Philippine peso; •currency fluctuations and the effect of its currency hedging activities; •changes in the relative sales mix of its component and system businesses; •the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of other products, such as inverters, necessary for its solar power products to function; •its ability to successfully integrate and reap the benefits of the SP Systems acquisition; •decreases in the overall average selling prices of its solar power products and imaging detectors; and •increases or decreases in electric rates due to fossil fuel prices. Any analysis or forecast that we make which ultimately proves to be inaccurate may adversely affect our stock price. 30 We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately and may face significant expenses as a result of ongoing or future litigation. The protection of our intellectual property rights, as well as those of our subsidiaries, is essential to keeping others from copying the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. It may be possible for an unauthorized third party to reverse-engineer or decompile our software products. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Furthermore, our flexible fab initiative and SunPower's polysilicon partnerships require us to enter into technology transfer agreements with external partners, providing third party access to our intellectual property and resulting in additional risk. In some cases, these technology transfer and/or license agreements are with foreign companies and subject our intellectual property to foreign countries which may afford less protection and/or result in increased costs to enforce such agreements. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into these kinds of licensing arrangements in the future. Consequently, we may become involved in litigation, in the United States or abroad, to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of invalidity. We are also from time to time involved in litigation relating to alleged infringement by us of others' patents or other intellectual property rights. Moreover, a key element of our strategy is to enter new markets with our PSoC products. If we are successful in entering these new markets, we will likely be subject to additional risks of potential infringement claims against us as our technologies are deployed in new applications and face new competitors. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights, particularly in certain international markets, making misappropriation of our intellectual property more likely. Patent litigation, if necessary or if and when instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Intellectual property litigation is frequently expensive to both the winning party and the losing party and could take up significant amounts of management's time and attention. In addition, if we lose such a lawsuit, a court could find that our intellectual property rights are invalid, enabling our competitors to use our technology, or require us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties or prohibit us from using essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this type of litigation could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, although in certain instances we may seek to obtain a license under a third party's intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Unfavorable outcome of litigation or investigations pending against us could materially impact our business. We are currently a party to various legal proceedings, claims, disputes, litigation and investigations. For example, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice ("DOJ") is currently conducting an investigation into possible antitrust violations in the static random access memories ("SRAM") industry. In addition, in connection with the DOJ investigation, we are defendants in purported consumer class action lawsuits alleging various claims under the Sherman Antitrust Act, state antitrust laws and unfair competition laws. Our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any of these or other pending or future litigation or investigation. There can be no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation or investigation. Although management believes it has meritorious defenses to each of these matters and intends to vigorously defend itself, such litigation, investigations and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. 31 Unfavorable outcome of examinations of our tax returns by tax authorities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our tax returns are subject to examination by various tax authorities in countries in which we operate. The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") is conducting an audit of our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2003 and 2004. During fiscal 2006, non-U.S. tax authorities commenced tax audits of our subsidiaries in the Philippines and India. As of December 30, 2007, no material adjustments to our tax liabilities have been proposed by the IRS or other foreign tax authorities. However, the IRS and the other foreign tax authorities have not completed their examinations. If material adjustments result from the conclusion of the examinations, our results of operations and financial position could be materially impacted. Furthermore, we could become engaged in a dispute with the IRS on any material adjustments proposed by the IRS, which could be costly and distracting to our management and business. We face additional problems and uncertainties associated with international operations that could seriously harm us. International revenues historically accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues. Our manufacturing, assembly and test operations located in the Philippines, as well as our international sales offices and design centers, face risks frequently associated with foreign operations including: •currency exchange fluctuations; •the devaluation of local currencies; •political instability; •labor issues; •changes in local economic conditions; •import and export controls; •potential shortage of electric power supply; and •changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates. To the extent any such risks materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. To a greater degree than most non-technology companies, we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product and process engineers. We compete for these individuals with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. If we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. We are subject to many different environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and directives, and compliance with them may be costly. We are subject to many different international, federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to, among other things, the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or 32 otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process and the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. We cannot assure you that we have been, or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be fined or other wise sanctioned by the regulators. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible, without regard to fault, for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. In addition, in December 2007, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit our manufacturing facility in Texas. In the course of exiting this facility, we could discover and/or need to address one or more environmental regulatory issues, which could result in significant costs or disruption to our business. Over the last several years, there has been increased public awareness of the potentially negative environmental impact of semiconductor manufacturing operations. This attention and other factors may lead to changes in environmental regulations that could force us to purchase additional equipment or comply with other potentially costly requirements. If we fail to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could face substantial liability or suspension of our manufacturing operations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union (Restriction on the Use of Hazardous Substances Directive 2002/95/EC, also known as the "RoHS Directive") and similar legislation in China and California. Other countries, including at the federal and state levels in the United States, are also considering laws and regulations similar to the RoHS Directive. Certain electronic products that we maintain in inventory may be rendered obsolete if not in compliance with the RoHS Directive or similar laws and regulations, which could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue from those products. Our customers and other companies in the supply chain may require us to certify that our products are RoHS compliant. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs or decreased revenue, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products. Our operations and financial results could be severely harmed by certain natural disasters. Cypress's and SunPower's headquarters in California, manufacturing facilities in the Philippines and some of our major vendors' facilities are located near major earthquake faults or are subject to seasonal typhoons. We have not been able to maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs. Instead, we rely on self-insurance and preventative/safety measures. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster occurs, we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment and we could suffer damages that could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to integrate our business and technologies with those of companies that we or SunPower may acquire could adversely affect our financial results. We and SunPower have made acquisitions and pursued other strategic relationships in the past and may pursue additional acquisitions in the future. If we or SunPower fail to integrate these businesses successfully, our financial results may be seriously harmed. Integrating these businesses, people, products and services with our existing business could be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our 33 resources. Specific issues that we and SunPower face with regard to prior and future acquisitions include: •integrating acquired technology or products; •integrating acquired products into our manufacturing facilities; •integrating different accounting policies and methodologies; •assimilating and retaining the personnel of the acquired companies; •coordinating and integrating geographically dispersed operations; •our ability to retain customers of the acquired company; •the potential disruption of our and our suppliers' ongoing business and distraction of management; •the maintenance of brand recognition of acquired businesses; •the failure to successfully develop acquired in-process technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; •unanticipated expenses related to technology integration; •the development and maintenance of uniform standards, corporate cultures, controls, procedures and policies; •the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; and •the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. We maintain self-insurance for certain indemnities we have made to our officers and directors. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify our officers and directors for certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their service to us. We self-insure with respect to these indemnifiable claims. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities for which we self-insure, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Actions taken by activist stockholders may consume our Board of Directors and management's time and attention. Campaigns by activist investors to effect changes at publicly traded companies have increased in recent years. In some cases, such campaigns are led by investors seeking to increase short term shareholder value through actions such as cost reductions, changes in strategy or management, changes to the board, restructuring, increased financial leverage, increased dividends or stock repurchases or sales of businesses or the entire company. We have been approached by investors urging our Board of Directors and management to, among other things, take action in connection with our investment in SunPower. While our Board of Directors and management believe a dialogue with stockholders can be healthy and value enhancing, activist investor campaigns can consume significant time and attention on the part of our Board of Directors and senior management, which may divert their attention away from matters related to the operations of our business. Such diversions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 34 We have significant amounts of debt and our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, earnings per share and our ability to meet our payment obligations. We have significant amounts of outstanding indebtedness and substantial debt service requirements. In December 2007, the common stock price conversion test for our convertible notes was triggered, giving the holders the right to convert their notes at their option during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. If the holders elect to convert their notes, we would be required to make significant cash payments to the holders. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any amended credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations (including upon conversion of any notes), we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the convertible notes. In addition, our convertible notes have negatively impacted the calculation of our diluted earnings per share. Under the treasury stock method, the increase in our stock price in fiscal 2007 resulted in more dilutive shares related to our convertible notes and warrants issued in conjunction with the convertible notes. In the future, our stock price could continue to be volatile, and if our stock price increases, it could further impact our diluted earnings per share. We may not have the ability to repurchase the convertible notes in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, or to pay cash upon the conversion of notes, as required by the indenture governing the notes. Holders of the notes will have the right to require us to repurchase the notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change or conversions of the notes, as defined in the indenture governing the notes. We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes or to make the required repayment at such time or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, upon conversion of the notes we will be required to make cash payments to the holders of the notes equal to at least the lesser of the principal amount of the notes being converted and the conversion value of those notes. Such payments could be significant, and we may not have sufficient funds to make them at such time. A fundamental change may also constitute an event of default under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. Our ability to repurchase the notes in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. Our failure to repurchase the notes or pay cash in respect of conversions when required would result in an event of default with respect to the notes, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a default under the indenture could lead to a default under existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness. If, due to a default, the repayment of related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness and the notes, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, should a fundamental change occur prior to maturity, up to an additional 6.7 million shares of Cypress's common stock could be issued, which would adversely impact our diluted earnings per share calculation. 35 The proposed FASB Staff Position on convertible debt could result in higher reported interest expense related to our convertible debt, which could materially impact our results of operations and earnings per share. In September 2007, the FASB issued a proposed FASB Staff Position on the accounting for convertible debt instruments with terms similar to our convertible notes issued in fiscal 2007. The proposed guidance would require the issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt in a manner that reflects interest expense equal to the issuer's non-convertible notes' borrowing rate. This would result in a debt discount that would subsequently be amortized over the term of the instrument, resulting in an increase in non-cash interest expense. If this proposed guidance is issued in its final form, it will materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share. If the recent worsening of credit market conditions continues or increases, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets experienced credit issues during the second half of fiscal 2007 and continuing into the first quarter of fiscal 2008, leading to liquidity disruption in asset-backed commercial paper and failed auctions in the auction rate market. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio includes auction rate securities, which are investments with contractual maturities generally between 20 to 30 years. They are usually found in the form of municipal bonds, preferred stock, a pool of student loans or collateralized debt obligations whose interest rates are reset every seven to 49 days through an auction process. At the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. The auction rate securities held by us are primarily backed by student loans and are over-collateralized, insured and guaranteed by the United States Federal Department of Education. In addition, all auction rate securities held by us are rated by the major independent rating agencies as either AAA or Aaa. Most of these auction rate securities were scheduled to reset subsequent to December 30, 2007. As of February 28, 2008, a portion of our auction rate securities have failed auctions, and we expect that the remaining auction rate securities will fail, due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. These failures are not believed to be a credit issue, but rather caused by a lack of liquidity. Under the contractual terms, the issuer is obligated to pay penalty rates should an auction fail. In the event we need to access the funds associated with failed auctions, they are not expected to be accessible until one of the following occurs: a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the issue, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities have matured. We determined that no other-than-temporary impairment losses existed as of December 30, 2007 as all holdings had successful auctions. However, if the issuer of the auction rate securities is unable to successfully close future auctions or does not redeem the auction rate securities, or the United States government fails to support its guaranty of the obligations, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the auction rate securities and record other-than-temporary impairment charges in future periods, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 