Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and operations are subject to numerous risks. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Developments in market and economic conditions have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the Company’s business and profitability. Performance in the financial services industry is heavily influenced by the overall strength of economic conditions and financial market activity, which generally have a direct and material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. These conditions are a product of many factors, which are mostly unpredictable and beyond the Company’s control, and may affect the decisions made by financial market participants. Uncertain or unfavorable market or economic conditions could result in reduced transaction volumes, reduced revenue and reduced profitability in any or all of the Company’s principal businesses. For example: · The Company’s investment banking revenue, in the form of underwriting, placement and financial advisory fees, is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions as well as the Company’s role in these transactions. In an environment of uncertain or unfavorable market or economic conditions such as occurred in the second half of 2008 and early 2009, the volume and size of capital-raising transactions and acquisitions and dispositions typically decrease, thereby reducing the demand for the Company’s investment banking services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. The market disruption which occurred in 2008 and early 2009 resulted in a reduction in the amount of investment banking business completed and a corresponding decline in the size of underwriting, placement and advisory fees the Company receiv ed. If the current market disruption continues or recurs at some point in the future, it may have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. · A downturn in the financial markets such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009, may result in a decline in the volume and value of trading transactions and, therefore, may lead to a decline in the revenue the Company generates from commissions on the execution of trading transactions and, in respect of its market-making activities, a reduction in the value of its trading positions and commissions and spreads. · Financial markets are susceptible to severe events such as dislocations which may lead to reduced liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, the Company’s risk management strategies may not be as effective as they might otherwise be under normal market conditions. 15 · Liquidity is essential to the Company’s businesses. The Company’s liquidity could be negatively affected by an inability to raise funding on a regular basis either in the short term market through bank borrowing or in the long term market through senior and subordinated borrowings. Such illiquidity could arise through a lowering of the Company’s credit rating or through market disruptions unrelated to the Company. The availability of unsecured financing is largely dependent on our credit rating which is largely determined by factors such as the level and quality of our earnings, capital adequacy, risk management, asset quality and business mix. The failure to secure the liquidity necessary for the Company to operate and grow could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. · Changes in interest rates, especially if such changes are rapid, high interest rates or uncertainty regarding the future direction of interest rates, may create a less favorable environment for certain of the Company’s businesses, particularly its fixed income business, resulting in reduced business volume and reduced revenues. The reduction of interest rates to all-time record lows can and has substantially reduced the interest profits available to the Company through its margin lending and has also reduced profit contributions from money fund products and sponsored FDIC covered deposits. A continuation of these conditions would significantly harm the Company’s business model. · The Company expects to continue to commit its own capital to engage in proprietary trading, investing and similar activities, and uncertain or unfavorable market or economic conditions may reduce the value of its positions, resulting in reduced revenues. The cyclical nature of the economy and the financial services industry leads to volatility in the Company’s operating margins, due to the fixed nature of a portion of compensation expenses and many non-compensation expenses, as well as the possibility that the Company will be unable to scale back other costs at an appropriate time to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. As a result, the Company’s financial performance may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. The Company may be adversely affected by the failure of the Auction Rate Securities Market. In February 2008, the market for auction rate securities (“ARS”) began experiencing disruptions due to the failure of auctions for preferred stocks issued to leverage closed end funds, municipal bonds backed by tax exempt issuers, and student loans backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. These auction failures developed as a result of auction managers or dealers, typically large commercial or investment banks, deciding not to commit their own capital when there was insufficient demand from bidders to meet the supply of sales from sellers. The failure of the ARS market has prevented clients from liquidating holdings in these positions or posting these securities as collateral for loans. The Company operates in an agency capacity in this market and from time to time may hold ARS in its proprietary accounts and, as a result, is exposed to these liquidity issues as well. The Company believes that, although issuer redemptions of ARS have occurred, in excess of 50% of the overall ARS issued into the ARS market remain outstanding. There is no guarantee that further ARS issuer redemptions will occur and, if so, that the Company’s clients’ ARS will be redeemed. 16 Regulators have concluded, in many cases, that securities firms, primarily those that underwrote and supported the auctions for ARS, should be compelled to redeem them from customers. Underwriters and dealers in such securities have settled with various regulators and have commenced purchasing ARS from their clients. The Company is presently in discussions with several state regulatory agencies and FINRA with respect to such actions. The Company and several of its executives and employees are also the subject of enforcement action by the Massachusetts Securities Division in which the Division seeks to compel the Company to redeem the ARS held by the Company’s clients that are residents of that state and certain other relief. Moreover, the Company is also named as a respondent in a number of arbitrations by its current or former clients as well as lawsuits, including two class action lawsuits, related to its sale of ARS. See “Legal Proceedings” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Regulatory Environment – Other Regulatory Matters.” If the disruptions in the ARS market do not cease, the Company may be further subject to claims by its clients or may be at a competitive disadvantage to those of its competitors that have already settled similar claims with their clients. The Company’s customers held approximately $929.6 million of ARS at January 31, 2009, exclusive of amounts that were owned by Qualified Institutional Buyers (“QIB’s”), transferred to the Company or purchased by customers after February 2008, or transferred from the Company to other securities firms after February 2008. If the Company were to purchase all of the ARS held by former or current clients who purchased such securities prior to the market’s failure in February 2008, these purchases would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition including its cash position. Therefore, before purchasing any of these securities, the Company would need to assess whether it had sufficient regulatory capital or borrowing capacity to do so. The Company does not currently believe that it is obligated to make any such purchases. The Company has worked with financing sources to try to find a means for its clients to find liquidity from their ARS holdings and will continue to do so. The Company has taken or is considering taking various actions to facilitate the purchase of client-held ARS. However, there is no assurance that these efforts, if undertaken, will be successful. The Company is considering applying to become a bank holding company. If it were to become a bank holding company, the Company’s business and financial condition could be adversely affected by new regulations applicable to bank holding companies. In addition, if the Company becomes a bank holding company, the Company will become subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements, as a state or nationally-chartered commercial bank. The Company has been reviewing its charter with a view to moving the situs of the Company to the United States in order to, among other things, potentially avail itself of various programs sponsored by the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC which may be available only to U.S.-based companies that might under certain circumstances provide the liquidity necessary to permit the Company to redeem ARS from its clients. Some of these programs, if made available to the Company, could require the Company to issue preferred shares to the Government or warrants to purchase Class A Shares, either of which actions would be dilutive to the current shareholders of the Company. 17 Markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be effective. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, and significant losses could be realized in the wake of such events. The Company has experienced significant pricing pressure in areas of its business, which may impair its revenues and profitability. In recent years the Company has experienced significant pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in debt and equity trading. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. In the equity market, the Company has experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which have created additional downward pressure on trading margins. The trend toward using alternative trading systems is continuing to grow, which may result in decreased commission and trading revenue, reduce the Company’s participation in the trading markets and its ability to access market information, and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. I nstitutional clients also have pressured financial services firms to alter “soft dollar” practices under which brokerage firms bundle the cost of trade execution with research products and services. Some institutions are entering into arrangements that separate (or “unbundle”) payments for research products or services from sales commissions. These arrangements have increased the competitive pressures on sales commissions and have affected the value the Company’s clients place on high-quality research. Moreover, the Company’s inability to reach agreement regarding the terms of unbundling arrangements with institutional clients who are actively seeking such arrangements could result in the loss of those clients, which would likely reduce the level of institutional commissions. The Company believes that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. Additional pressure on sales and trading revenue may impair the profitability of the Company’s business. The volume of anticipated investment banking transactions may differ from actual volume. The completion of anticipated investment banking transactions in the Company’s pipeline is uncertain and beyond its control, and its investment banking revenue is typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction. In most cases the Company receives little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. For example, a client’s acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s or counterparty’s business. If the parties fail to complete a transaction on which the Company is advising or an offering in which it is participating , the Company will earn little or no revenue from the transaction but may incur expenses including but not limited to legal fees. The Company may 18 perform services subject to an engagement agreement and the client may refuse to pay fees due under such agreement, requiring the Company to re-negotiate fees or commence legal action for collection of such earned fees. Accordingly, the Company’s business is highly dependent on market conditions, the decisions and actions of its clients and interested third parties. The number of engagements the Company has at any given time is subject to change and may not necessarily result in future revenues. In 2008, there was a substantial reduction in the number and aggregate dollar volume of global mergers and acquisitions transactions and securities offerings. If this trend were to continue, the aggregate investment banking revenue of the Company would likely be lower than levels achieved in 2008. The ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and productive employees is critical to the success of the Company’s business. The Company faces intense competition for qualified employees from other businesses in the financial services industry, and the performance of its business may suffer to the extent it is unable to attract and retain employees effectively, particularly given the relatively small size of the Company and its employee base compared to some of its competitors. The primary sources of revenue in each of the Company’s business lines are commissions and fees earned on advisory and underwriting transactions and customer accounts managed by its employees, who are regularly recruited by other firms and in certain cases are able to take their client relationships with them when they change firms. Some specialized areas of the Company’s business are operated by a relatively small number of employees, the loss of any of whom could jeopardize the continuation of that business following the employee 6;s departure. The Company depends on its senior employees and the loss of their services could harm its business. The Company’s success is dependent in large part upon the services of its senior executives and employees. Any loss of service of the CEO may adversely affect the business and operations of the Company. The Company maintains key man insurance on the life of its CEO. If the Company’s senior executives or employees terminate their employment and the Company is unable to find suitable replacements in relatively short periods of time, its operations may be materially and adversely affected. Underwriting and market-making activities may place capital at risk. The Company may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, it is unable to sell securities it purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, the Company is subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings it underwrites. Any such misstatement or omission could subject the Company to enforcement action by the SEC and claims of investors, either of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and reputation. As a market maker, the Company may own large positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if its holdings were more diversified. 19 Increases in capital commitments in our proprietary trading, investing and similar activities increase the potential for significant losses. The trend in capital markets is toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. The acquisition of the New Capital Markets Business has resulted in an increased commitment of the Company’s own capital to engage in proprietary trading, principal investing and similar activities. The Company’s results of operations for a given period may be affected by the nature and scope of these activities and such activities will subject the Company to market fluctuations and volatility that may adversely affect the value of its positions, which could result in significant losses and reduce its revenues and profits. In addition, increased commitment of capital will expose the Company to the risk that a counterparty will be unable to meet its obligations, which could lead to financial losses that could adversely affect the Company’s r esults of operations. These activities may lead to a greater concentration of risk, which may cause the Company to suffer losses even when business conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. The Company may make strategic acquisitions of businesses, engage in joint ventures or divest or exit existing businesses, which could result in unforeseen expenses or disruptive effects on its business. From time to time, the Company may consider acquisitions of other businesses or joint ventures with other businesses. For example, on January 14, 2008, the Company acquired the New Capital Markets Business. For information on the acquisition, see note 18 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 included in Item 8. Any acquisition or joint venture that the Company determines to pursue will be accompanied by a number of risks. After the announcement or completion of an acquisition or joint venture, the Company’s share price could decline if investors view the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve its competitive position. Costs or difficulties relating to such a transaction, including integration of products, employees, officers, technology systems, accounting systems and management controls, may be difficult to predict accurately and be greater than expec ted causing the Company’s estimates to differ from actual results. The Company may be unable to retain key personnel after the transaction, and the transaction may impair relationships with customers and business partners. In addition, the Company may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits and synergies from the transaction as fully as expected or within the expected time frame. Divestitures or elimination of existing businesses or products could have similar effects. These difficulties could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business, increase its expenses and adversely affect its operating results and financial condition. If the Company is unable to repay its outstanding indebtedness when due, its operations may be materially, adversely affected. At December 31, 2008, the Company had an aggregate indebtedness of approximately $1.1 billion. The Company cannot assure that its operations will generate funds sufficient to repay its existing debt obligations as they come due. The Company’s failure to repay its indebtedness and make interest payments as required by its debt obligations could have a material adverse affect on its operations and financial condition. The Company had senior and subordinated debt outstanding at December 31, 2008. If the Company is unable to meet its covenants under these obligations, the debt could be accelerated. 20 The Company is subject to extensive securities regulation and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject it to penalties or sanctions. The securities industry and the Company’s business are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. The Company is also regulated by industry self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA and the MSRB. The Company may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. The regulatory environment is subject to change and the Company may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other federal or state governmental regulatory authorities, or self-regulatory organizations. In response to current market conditions, the regulatory environment to which the Company is subjected may intensify if additional rules are adopted by the Company’s regulators. Oppenheimer is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and is primarily regulated by FINRA. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including: · sales methods and supervision; · trading practices among broker-dealers; · use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities; · anti-money laundering and Patriot Act compliance; · capital structure of securities firms; · compliance with lending practices (Regulation T); · record keeping; and · the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Compliance with many of the regulations applicable to the Company involves a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be subject to varying interpretation. The requirements imposed by these regulations are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with the Company. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit the Company’s activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally FINRA, which is the Company’s primary regulatory agency. FINRA adopts rules, subject to approval by the SEC, which govern its members and conducts periodic examinations of member firms’ operations. If the Company is found to have violated any applicable regulations, formal administrative or judicial proceedings may be initiated against it that may result in: · censure; · fine; · civil penalties, including treble damages in the case of insider trading violations; · the issuance of cease-and-desist orders; · the deregistration or suspension of our broker-dealer activities; · the suspension or disqualification of our officers or employees; or · other adverse consequences. The imposition of any of these or other penalties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. For a more detailed description of the regulatory scheme under which the Company operates, see Item 1 under the caption 21 “Regulation” and Item 7 under the caption “Managements’ Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulation”. The Company is considering applying to become a bank holding company. If it were to become a bank holding company, the Company’s business and financial condition could be adversely affected by new regulations applicable to bank holding companies. In addition, if the Company becomes a bank holding company, the Company will become subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements, as a state or nationally-chartered commercial bank. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could subject the Company to suspension or revocation by the SEC or suspension or expulsion by FINRA. Oppenheimer and Freedom are subject to the SEC’s Net Capital Rule which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. For a more detailed description of the regulatory scheme under which the Company operates see Item 1 under the caption “Net Capital Requirements”. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could subject the Company to suspension or revocation by the SEC or suspension or expulsion by FINRA. If the Company violates the securities laws, or is involved in litigation in connection with a violation, the Company’s reputation and results of operations may be adversely affected. Many aspects of the Company’s business involve substantial risks of liability. An underwriter is exposed to substantial liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws, and court decisions, including decisions with respect to underwriters’ liability and limitations on indemnification of underwriters by issuers. For example, a firm that acts as an underwriter may be held liable for material misstatements or omissions of fact in a prospectus used in connection with the securities being offered or for statements made by its securities analysts or other personnel. In recent years, there has been an increasing incidence of litigation involving the securities industry, including class actions that seek substantial damages. The Company’s underwriting activities will usually involve offerings of the securities of smaller companies, which often involve a hi gher degree of risk and are more volatile than the securities of more established companies. In comparison with more established companies, smaller companies are also more likely to be the subject of securities class actions, to carry directors and officers liability insurance policies with lower limits or not at all, and to become insolvent. In addition, in market downturns, claims tend to increase. Each of these factors increases the likelihood that an underwriter may be required to contribute to an adverse judgment or settlement of a securities lawsuit. In the normal course of business, the Operating Subsidiaries have been and continue to be the subject of numerous civil actions and arbitrations arising out of customer complaints relating to our activities as a broker-dealer, as an employer and as a result of other business activities. In.turbulent times such as these, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have historically escalated. If the Company misjudged the amount of damages that may be assessed against it from pending or threatened claims, or if the Company is unable to adequately estimate the amount of damages that will be assessed against it from claims that arise in the future and reserve accordingly, its financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 22 The value of the Company’s goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. A substantial portion of the Company’s assets arise from goodwill and intangibles recorded as a result of business acquisitions it has made. The Company is required to perform a test for impairment of such goodwill and intangible assets, at least annually. To the extent that there are continued declines in the markets and general economy, impairment may become more likely. If the test resulted in a write-down of goodwill and/or intangible assets, the Company would incur a significant loss. For further discussion of this risk, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements appearing under Item 8. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Company’s business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains a disaster recovery site to aid it in reacting to circumstances such as those described above. The plans and preparations for such eventualities including the site itself may not be adequate or effective for their intended purpose. The Company’s risk management policies and procedures may leave it exposed to unidentified risks or an unanticipated level of risk. The policies and procedures the Company employs to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some methods of risk management are based on the use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by the Company. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. The Company cannot give assurances that its policies and procedures will effectively and accurately record and verify this information. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. The Company seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting systems. The Company believes that it effectively evaluates and manages the market, credit and other risks to which it is exposed. Nonetheless, the effectiveness of the Company’s ability to manage risk exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets or other unforeseen developments can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The consequences of these developments can include losses due to adverse changes in securities values, decreases in the liquidity of trading positions, higher volatility in earnings, increases in the Company’s credit risk to customers a s well as to third parties and increases in general systemic risk. 23 Credit risk may expose the Company to losses caused by the inability of borrowers or other third parties to satisfy their obligations. The Company is exposed to the risk that third parties that owe it money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties include: · trading counterparties; · customers; · clearing agents; · exchanges; · clearing houses; and · other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities we hold. These parties may default on their obligations owed to the Company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This default risk may arise, for example, from: · holding securities of third parties; · executing securities trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries; and · extending credit to clients through bridge or margin loans or other arrangements. The exposure to credit risk is heightened in the current economic environment in which default rates across many asset classes are expected to increase. Significant failures by third parties to perform their obligations owed to the Company could adversely affect the Company’s revenue and its ability to borrow in the credit markets. Defaults by another large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy protection and financial institutions including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Citigroup, Bank of America, and American International Group, Inc. needed to accept substantial funding from the Federal government. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, or other relationships between these institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses, or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with which the Company interacts o n a daily basis, and therefore could affect the Company. The failure of guarantors could adversely affect the pricing of securities and their trading markets. Monoline insurance companies, commercial banks and other insurers regularly issue credit enhancements to issuers in order to permit them to receive higher credit ratings than would otherwise be available to them. As a result, the failure of any of these guarantors could and would suddenly and immediately result in the depreciation in the price of the securities that have been guaranteed or enhanced by such entity. This failure could adversely affect the markets in general and the liquidity of the securities that are so affected. This disruption could create losses for holders of affected securities including the Company. In addition, rating agency downgrades of the debt or deposit or 24 claims paying ability of these guarantors could result in reduction in the prices of securities held by the Company which are guaranteed by such guarantors. The precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect employee misconduct may not be effective and it could be exposed to unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. The Company runs the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include: · employees binding the Company to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks to the Company; · employee theft and improper use of Company or client property; · employees hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities from the Company; or · the improper use of confidential information. These types of misconduct could result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses to the Company including regulatory sanctions and serious harm to its reputation. The precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective. If employee misconduct does occur, the Company’s business operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company continually encounters technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully k eep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 25 The business operations that are conducted outside of the United States subject the Company to unique risks. To the extent the Company conducts business outside the United States, it is subject to risks including, without limitation, the risk that it will be unable to provide effective operational support to these business activities, the risk of non-compliance with foreign laws and regulations, the general economic and political conditions in countries where it conducts business and currency fluctuations. As a result of the acquisition of the New Capital Markets Business, the Company has operations in Israel, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong, China. If the Company is unable to manage these risks effectively, its reputation and results of operations could be harmed. Risks associated with the Company’s stock. The Company’s stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it difficult for an investor to resell the Company’s Class A Shares at the times and at the prices desired. The price of the Class A Shares can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; · operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; · news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; · perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; · new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; · significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors; · a downturn in the overall economy or the equity markets in particular; · failure to effectively integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; and · the occurrence of any of the other events described in these Risk Factors. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in the Company’s Class A Shares is less than that of larger financial services companies. Although the Company’s Class A Shares are listed for trading on the NYSE, the trading volume in its Class A Shares is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company’s Class A Shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s Class A Shares, significant sales of the Company’s Class A Shares, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company’s stock price to fall and increases the volatility of the Class A Shares generally. 26 The holders of Class A Shares do not have the ability to vote on most corporate matters which limits the influence that these holders have over the Company. The Company issues two classes of shares, Class A Shares and Class B voting shares (“Class B Shares”). At December 31, 2008, there were 99,680 Class B Shares outstanding compared to 12,899,465 Class A Shares. The voting power associated with the Class B Shares allows holders of Class B Shares to effectively exercise control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of all directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and other matters affecting the Company. This voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. The controlling shareholder(s) may have potential conflicts of interest with other shareholders, as discussed in Item 4, “Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders”. Possible additional issuances of the Company’s stock will cause dilution. At December 31, 2008, the Company had 12,899,465 Class A Shares outstanding, outstanding employee stock options to purchase a total of 950,732 Class A Shares, as well as outstanding unvested stock awards granted for an additional 508,447 Class A Shares. The Company is further authorized to issue up to 934,997 Class A Shares under share-based compensation plans, for which shareholder approval has already been obtained. As part of the consideration for the New Capital Markets Business, the Company issued to CIBC warrants to purchase 1,000,000 Class A Shares on January 14, 2013 at an exercise price of $48.62 per share. The Company may also issue Class A Shares in an indeterminate amount as payment for CIBC’s earn-out in the New Capital Markets Business for the five year period ending in 2013. As the Company issues additional shares, shareholders’ holdings will be diluted, perhaps significantly. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 