Risk Factors We face periods of industry-wide semiconductor over-supply that harm our results. The semiconductor industry has historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, semiconductors. These fluctuations have helped produce many occasions when supply and demand for semiconductors have not been in balance. During the second half of fiscal 2004, we experienced a rapid softening of demand for our products that may represent the beginning of such a period of over-supply. In the past, these industry-wide fluctuations in demand, which have resulted in under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity, have seriously harmed our operating results. In some cases, industry downturns with these characteristics have lasted more than a year. Prior experience has shown that restructuring of our operations, resulting in significant restructuring charges, may become necessary if an industry downturn persists. In response to the downturn that began in early 2001, we restructured our manufacturing operations and administrative areas in third quarter of fiscal 2001 and fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 to increase cost efficiency with the goal of maintaining an infrastructure that will enable us to grow when sustainable economic recovery begins. In addition, in response to the softening in market condition, management announced a plan to restructure our organization in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. When these cycles occur, they will likely seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may need to take further action to respond to them. Our financial results could be seriously harmed if the markets in which we sell our products do not grow. Our continued success depends in large part on the continued growth of various electronics industries that use our semiconductors, including the following industries: • networking equipment; • wireless telecommunications equipment; • computers and computer-related peripherals; and • consumer electronics, automotive electronics and industrial controls. Many of our products are incorporated into data communications and telecommunications products. Any reduction in the growth of, or decline in the demand for, networking applications, mass storage, telecommunications, cellular base stations, cellular handsets and other personal communication devices that incorporate our products could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain of our products, including USB microcontrollers and high-frequency clocks, are incorporated into computer and computer-related products, which have historically experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in demand. We may also be seriously harmed by slower growth in the other markets in which we sell our products. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed if we fail to compete successfully in our highly competitive industry and markets. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. This intense competition results in a difficult operating environment that is marked by erosion of average selling prices over the lives of each product, rapid technological change resulting in limited product life cycles. In order to offset selling price decreases, we attempt to decrease the manufacturing costs of our products and to introduce new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts are not successful or do not occur in a timely manner, or if our newly introduced products do not gain market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Furthermore, we expect our competitors to invest in new manufacturing capacity and achieve significant manufacturing yield improvements in the future. These developments could dramatically increase the worldwide supply of competitive products and result in further downward pressure on prices. A primary cause of this highly competitive environment is the strength of our competitors. The industry consists of major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially 12 Table of Contents greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. We face competition from other domestic and foreign high-performance integrated circuit manufacturers, many of which have advanced technological capabilities and have increased their participation in markets that are important to us. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving high performance portion of the semiconductor technology industry depends on many factors, including: • our success in developing new products and manufacturing technologies; • the quality and price of our products; • the diversity of our product line; • the cost effectiveness of our design, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts; • our customer service; • our customer satisfaction; • the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their systems; • the number and nature of our competitors and general economic conditions; and • our access to and the availability of capital. Although we believe we currently compete effectively in the above areas to the extent they are within our control, given the pace of change in the industry, our current abilities are not a guarantee of future success. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. In addition, our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new products could cause our products to become obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. The industry is rapidly evolving and competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the industry and to effectively compete in the future. We believe that there is a variety of competing technologies under development by other companies that could result in lower manufacturing costs than those expected for our products. Our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others, and other technologies may prove more advantageous for the commercialization of solar power products. Our financial results could be adversely impacted if we fail to develop, introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new technologies. Like many semiconductor companies, which frequently operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that customers choose to buy. We introduce significant numbers of products each year, which are important sources of revenue for us. If we fail to introduce new product designs in a timely manner or are unable to manufacture products according to the requirements of these designs, or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products, or market demand for our new products does not exist as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. For us and many other semiconductor companies, introduction of new products is a major manufacturing challenge. The new products the market requires tend to be increasingly complex, incorporating more functions and operating at faster speeds than prior products. Increasing complexity generally requires smaller features on a chip. This makes manufacturing new generations of products substantially more difficult than prior generations. Ultimately, whether we can successfully introduce these and other new products depends on our ability to develop and implement new ways of manufacturing semiconductors. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be seriously harmed. 13 Table of Contents We must spend heavily on equipment to stay competitive and will be adversely impacted if we are unable to secure financing for such investments. In order to remain competitive, semiconductor manufacturers generally make significant investments in capital equipment to maintain or increase technology and design development and manufacturing capacity and capability. This is particularly true as companies develop technologies that would allow for fabrication of products using smaller geometries in order to increase performance of those products and also to reduce cost. In addition, certain technology breakthroughs may only be supported by 300mm equipment. This technology change would most likely necessitate migrating our production into 300mm wafers versus our existing 200mm capability, which could be prohibitively expensive for us and could cause us to change our business model. We anticipate significant continuing capital expenditures in subsequent years. In the past, we have reinvested a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations in technology, design development and capacity expansion and improvement programs. If we are unable to decrease costs for our products at a rate at least as fast as the rate of the decline in selling prices for such products, we may not be able to generate enough cash flows from operations to maintain or increase manufacturing capability and capacity as necessary. In such a situation, we would need to seek financing from external sources to satisfy our needs for manufacturing equipment and, if cash flows from operations declines too much, for operational cash needs as well. Such financing, however, may not be available on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations would be seriously harmed. We must build semiconductors based on our forecasts of demand, and if our forecasts are inaccurate, we may have large amounts of unsold products or we may not be able to fill all orders. We order materials and build semiconductors based primarily on our internal forecasts and secondarily on existing orders, which may be cancelled under many circumstances. Consequently, we depend on our forecasts as a principal means to determine inventory levels for our products and the amount of manufacturing capacity that we need. Because our markets are volatile and subject to rapid technological and price changes, our forecasts may be wrong and we may make too many or too few of certain products or have too much or too little manufacturing capacity. Also, our customers frequently place orders requesting product delivery almost immediately after the order is made, which makes forecasting customer demand even more difficult, particularly when supply is abundant. These factors also make it difficult to forecast quarterly operating results. If we are unable to predict accurately the appropriate amount of product required to meet customer demand, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed, either through missed revenue opportunities because inventory for sale was insufficient or through excessive inventory that would require write-downs. Our ability to meet our cash requirements depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to meet our cash requirements (including our debt service obligations) is dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund our cash requirements. If we were unable to meet our cash requirements from operations, we would be required to fund these cash requirements by alternative financing. The degree to which we may be leveraged could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures or could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing, that any such financing would be on acceptable terms or that we will be permitted to do so under the terms of our existing financing arrangements. In the absence of such financing, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, make future acquisitions, react to adverse operating results, meet our debt service obligations, or fund required capital expenditures may be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The complex nature of our manufacturing activities makes us highly susceptible to manufacturing problems and these problems can have a substantial negative impact on us when they occur. Making semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Even very small impurities in our manufacturing materials, difficulties in the wafer fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous chips on each wafer to be non-functional. We may experience problems in achieving an acceptable success rate in the manufacture of wafers and the likelihood of facing such difficulties is higher in connection with the transition to new manufacturing methods. The interruption of wafer fabrication or the failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields at any of our facilities would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and test operations and in the introduction of new packaging materials. Problems in the performance or availability of other companies we hire to perform certain manufacturing tasks can seriously harm our financial performance. A high percentage of our products are fabricated in our manufacturing facilities located in Texas, Minnesota and the Philippines. However, we also rely on independent contractors to manufacture some of our products. If market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements. A shortage in foundry manufacturing capacity, which is more likely to occur at times of increasing demand, could hinder our ability to meet demand for our products and therefore adversely affect our operating results. A high percentage of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our manufacturing facility located in the Philippines. We rely on independent subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products. This reliance involves certain risks, because we have less control over manufacturing quality and delivery schedules, whether these companies have adequate capacity to meet our needs and whether they discontinue or phase out assembly processes we require. We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms or at all and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so. We may not be able to use all of our existing or future manufacturing capacity, which can negatively impact our business. We have in the past spent, and will continue to spend, significant amounts of money to upgrade and increase our wafer fabrication, assembly and test manufacturing capability and capacity. If we do not need some of this capacity and capability for a variety of reasons, such as inadequate demand or a significant shift in the mix of product orders that makes our existing capacity and capability inadequate or in excess of our actual needs, our fixed costs per semiconductor produced will increase, which will harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the need for more advanced products requires accelerated conversion to technologies capable of manufacturing semiconductors having smaller features or requires the use of larger wafers, we are likely to face higher operating expenses and may need to write-off capital equipment made obsolete by the technology conversion, either of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in response to various downturns and changes in our business, we have not been able to use all of our existing equipment and we have restructured our operations. These restructurings have resulted in material charges, which have negatively affected our business. Interruptions in the availability of raw materials can seriously harm our financial performance. Our semiconductor manufacturing and solar cell operations require raw materials that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source available for these materials, but for certain of our products there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering the raw materials that meet our standards. If we need to use other companies as suppliers, they must go through a qualification process, which can be difficult and lengthy. In addition, the raw materials we need for certain of our products could become 15 Table of Contents scarcer as worldwide demand for semiconductors and solar cells increases. Interruption of our sources of raw materials could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third parties to transport our products. We rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers. Any transport or delivery problems because of their errors or because of unforeseen interruptions in their activities due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters and accidents could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales could be adversely affected. The market for solar power products manufactured by SunPower is emerging and rapidly evolving. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, our revenues and profitability could be affected adversely. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: • cost effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; • performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; • success of alternative distributed generation technologies; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions which impact the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • continued deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry; and • availability of, and dependence on, subsidies and other incentives provided by various governmental agencies. Any guidance that we may provide about our business or expected future results may prove to differ from actual results. From time to time we have shared our views in press releases or SEC filings, on public conference calls and in other contexts about current business conditions and our expectations as to potential future results. Identifying correctly the key factors affecting business conditions and predicting future events is inherently an uncertain process. Our analyses and forecasts have in the past and, given the complexity and volatility of our business, will likely in the future, prove to be incorrect. We offer no assurance that such predictions or analysis will ultimately be accurate, and investors should treat any such predictions or analyses with appropriate caution. In addition, because we recognize revenues from sales to certain distributors only when these distributors make a sale to customers, we are highly dependent on the accuracy of their resale estimates. The occurrence of inaccurate estimates also contributes to the difficulty in predicting our quarterly revenue and results of operations and we can fail to meet expectations if we are not accurate in our estimates. Any analysis or forecast that we make which ultimately proves to be inaccurate may adversely affect our stock price. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately and may face significant expenses as a result of ongoing or future litigation. Protection of our intellectual property rights is essential to keeping others from copying the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. Consequently, we may become involved in litigation to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of invalidity. We are also from time to time involved in litigation relating to alleged infringement by us of others’ patents or other intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is frequently expensive to both the winning party and the losing party and could take up significant amounts of management’s time and attention. In addition, if we lose such a lawsuit, a court could find that our intellectual property rights are invalid, enabling our competitors to use our technology, or require us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties or prohibit us from using essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this type of litigation could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, although in certain instances we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms or at all. For a variety of reasons, we have entered into technology license agreements with third parties that give those parties the right to use patents and other technology developed by us and/or give us the right to use patents and other technology developed by them. Historically, these arrangements have not been a material source of revenue to the Company. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into these kinds of licensing arrangements in the future. It is possible, however, that licenses we want will not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we lose existing licenses to key technology, or are unable to enter into new licenses that we deem important, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. It is critical to our success that we are able to prevent competitors from copying our innovations. Therefore, we intend to continue to seek intellectual property protection for our technologies. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around the patents we own. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, others may come to know about or determine our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We are subject to many different environmental regulations and compliance with them may be costly. We are subject to many different governmental regulations related to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. In addition, over the last several years, the public has paid a great deal of attention to the potentially negative environmental impact of semiconductor manufacturing operations. This attention and other factors may lead to changes in environmental regulations that could force us to purchase additional equipment or comply with other potentially costly requirements. If we fail to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could face substantial liability or suspension of our manufacturing operations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We face additional problems and uncertainties associated with international operations that could seriously harm us. International revenues accounted for 66%, 63% and 57% of our total revenues in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. At the end of fiscal 2004, our long-lived assets were held primarily in the United States with approximately 9% held in the Philippines and 1% in other foreign countries. Our Philippine fabrication, assembly and test operations, as well as our international sales offices, face risks frequently associated with foreign operations including: • currency exchange fluctuations; • the devaluation of local currencies; • political instability; • changes in local economic conditions; • import and export controls; and • changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates. To the extent any such risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. We may face automotive product liability claims that are disproportionately higher than the value of the products involved. Although all of our products sold in the automotive market are covered by our standard warranty, we could incur costs not covered by our warranties including, but not limited to, labor and other costs of replacing defective parts, lost profits and other damages. These costs could be disproportionately higher than the revenue and profits we receive from the products involved. If we are required to pay for damages resulting from quality or performance issues of our automotive products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. To a greater degree than most non-technology companies, we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product and process engineers. We compete for these individuals with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. If we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Our operations and financial results could be severely harmed by certain natural disasters. Our headquarters, some manufacturing facilities and some of our major vendors’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults. We have not been able to maintain earthquake insurance coverage at reasonable costs. Instead, we rely on self-insurance and preventative/safety measures. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster occurs, we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment and we could suffer damages that could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Changes in stock option accounting rules may adversely impact our reported operating results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Technology companies like ours have a history of using broad-based employee stock option programs to hire, incentivize and retain our workforce in a competitive marketplace. Currently, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” allows companies the choice of either using a fair value method of accounting for options, which would result in expense recognition for all options granted, or using an intrinsic value method, as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion (“APB”) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” with a pro forma disclosure of the impact on net income of using the fair value recognition method. We have elected to apply APB 25 and accordingly, we generally do not recognize any expense with respect to employee stock options as long as such options are granted at exercise prices equal to the fair value of our common stock on the date of grant. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” which replaces SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25. Under SFAS No. 123(R), companies are required to measure the compensation costs of share-based compensation arrangements based on the grant-date fair value and recognize the costs in the financial statements over the period during which employees are required to provide services. Public companies will be required to apply SFAS No. 123(R) as of the first interim or annual reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005. The implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 will have a significant adverse impact on our Consolidated Statement of Operations as we will be required to expense the fair value of our stock options rather than disclosing the impact on results of operations within our footnotes in accordance with the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123. This will result in lower reported earnings per share, which could negatively impact our future stock price. In addition, this could impact our ability to utilize broad-based employee stock plans to reward employees and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. We may fail to integrate our business and technologies with those of companies that we have recently acquired and that we may acquire in the future. We completed three acquisitions during fiscal 2004, none in fiscal 2003 and one in fiscal 2002. In addition, we have completed one acquisition in February 2005, and we may pursue additional acquisitions in the future. If we fail to integrate these businesses successfully or properly, our quarterly and annual results may be seriously harmed. Integrating these businesses, people, products and services with our existing business could be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources. Specific issues that we face with regard to prior and future acquisitions include: • integrating acquired technology or products; • integrating acquired products into our manufacturing facilities; • assimilating and retaining the personnel of the acquired companies; • coordinating and integrating geographically dispersed operations; • our ability to retain customers of the acquired company; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • the maintenance of brand recognition of acquired businesses; • the failure to successfully develop acquired in-process technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; • unanticipated expenses related to technology integration; • the development and maintenance of uniform standards, corporate cultures, controls, procedures and policies; 19 Table of Contents • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; and • the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. We may incur losses in connection with loans made under our stock purchase assistance plan. We have outstanding loans, consisting of principal and cumulative accrued interest, of $54.1 million as of January 2, 2005, to employees and former employees under the shareholder-approved 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Assistance Plan. We made the loans to employees for the purpose of purchasing our common stock. Each loan is evidenced by a full recourse promissory note executed by the employee in favor of Cypress and is secured by a pledge of the shares of our common stock purchased with the proceeds of the loan. The primary benefit to us from this program is increased employee retention. In accordance with the plan, the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors do not participate in this program. To date, there have been immaterial bad debt write-offs. As of January 2, 2005, we had an allowance for uncollectible accounts against these loans of $8.5 million. In determining the allowance for uncollectible accounts, management considered various factors, including a review of borrower demographics (including geographic location and job grade), loan quality and an independent fair value analysis of the loans and the underlying collateral. While the loans are secured by the shares of our stock purchased with the loan proceeds, the value of this collateral would be adversely affected if our stock price declined significantly. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if a significant amount of these loans were not repaid. Similarly, if our stock price were to decrease, our employees bear greater repayment risk and we would have increased risk to our results of operations. However, we are willing to pursue every available avenue, including those covered under the Uniform Commercial Code, to recover these loans by pursuing employees’ personal assets should the employees not repay these loans. We maintain self-insurance for certain indemnities we have made to our officers and directors. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify our officers and directors for certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their service to us. We self-insure with respect to potential indemnifiable claims. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities for which we self-insure, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Executive Officers of the Registrant Certain information as of January 2, 2005 regarding each of our executive officers is set forth below: Executive Officer Name Age Position Since T. J. Rodgers 57 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 1982 Antonio R. Alvarez 48 Executive Vice President, Memory Products Division 1993 Emmanuel T. Hernandez 49 Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer 1993 Ralph H. Schmitt 44 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing 2000 Christopher Seams 42 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing & Research and Development 2002 Christopher Norris 42 Vice President, Data Communications Division 2003 Cathal Phelan 41 Vice President, Personal Communications Division 2003 Ilhan Refioglu 56 Vice President, Time Technology Division 2003 20 Table of Contents T.J. Rodgers is a co-founder of Cypress and has been a Director and its President and Chief Executive Officer since 1982. Mr. Rodgers serves as a director of SolarFlare Communications Inc., Infinera, and ION America. Antonio R. Alvarez joined Cypress in May 1987 as a senior technical engineer. Mr. Alvarez was transferred to our former subsidiary, Aspen Semiconductor Corporation, in April 1988 as the manager of BiCMOS technology. In October 1989, Mr. Alvarez returned to the corporate office as Vice President, Research and Development. In 1998, Mr. Alvarez became responsible for the Memory Products Division. Mr. Alvarez was named Executive Vice President in April 1997. Mr. Alvarez has been an executive officer since 1993. Emmanuel T. Hernandez joined Cypress in June 1993 as Corporate Controller. In January 1994, Mr. Hernandez was promoted to Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Cypress, Mr. Hernandez held various financial positions with National Semiconductor Corporation from 1976 through 1993. Mr. Hernandez was named Executive Vice President in May 1997. Mr. Hernandez has been an executive officer since 1993. Mr. Hernandez serves as a board member of ON Semiconductor and Integration Associates. Ralph H. Schmitt joined Cypress in 1987 as our first account manager. In 1991, Mr. Schmitt became responsible for the Mid-Atlantic sales region. In 1993, Mr. Schmitt was named Director of Worldwide Strategic Accounts. In 1995, Mr. Schmitt left Cypress to found GroupTec LLC and was a Partner and President of this firm. Mr. Schmitt rejoined Cypress in January 1998 as sales director with responsibility for transitioning the sales and marketing organization to align with Cypress’s shift to a market-based strategy. He was appointed Vice President, Segment Sales and Marketing in September 1999 and named Vice President, Sales and Marketing in June 2000. Mr. Schmitt was named an Executive Vice President in July 2000 and has served as an executive officer since that time. He serves as a board member of Azanda Network Devices and StarGen, Inc. Christopher Seams joined Cypress in 1990 and held a variety of positions in process and assembly technology research and development and manufacturing operations. In 2001, Mr. Seams became responsible for Research and Development. Mr. Seams was appointed Executive Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing and Research and Development in November 2001 and has served as an executive officer since 2002. Mr. Seams serves as a board member of 1st Silicon and Ronal Systems Corporation. Christopher Norris joined Cypress in 1988 as a senior design engineer. Mr. Norris has held a number of positions within Cypress including design manager, director of new product development, and general manager of the programmable logic division. In 1996, Mr. Norris was promoted to Vice President, Programmable Logic Division and in 2000 became responsible for the Data Communications Division where he is responsible for developing Cypress’s products for the wide area networking, storage networking, and wireless infrastructure markets. Mr. Norris became an executive officer in 2003. Cathal Phelan joined Cypress in 1991 as a senior design engineer. Mr. Phelan has held a number of positions within Cypress including design director, new products director, and business unit manager. In 1999, Mr. Phelan was promoted to Vice President, Personal Communications Division where he is responsible for developing products for the USB, WirelessUSB and High Speed Serial Interconnect markets. Mr. Phelan became an executive officer in 2003. Ilhan Refioglu joined Cypress in February 2001 as Vice President of the Timing Technology Division. Prior to joining Cypress, Mr. Refioglu was President and Chief Executive Officer of International Microcircuits, Inc., which Cypress acquired in 2001, for five years. Mr. Refioglu served as Vice President at Exar Corp from 1984 to 1995, where he was responsible for all business divisions of the company. Mr. Refioglu became an executive officer in 2003. Mr. Refioglu left Cypress in January 2005. There are no family relationships between any of our directors or executive officers. 21 Table of Contents 