ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS UPON COMPLETION OF THE SPIN-OFF OF SUNPOWER ON SEPTEMBER 29, 2008, CYPRESS NO LONGER CONSOLIDATED SUNPOWER’S FINANCIAL RESULTS BEGINNING IN THE FOURTH QUARTER OF FISCAL 2008. THE FOLLOWING IS NOT INTENDED TO ADDRESS RISK FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH SUNPOWER’S BUSINESS, OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. FOR A DETAILED DISCUSSION OF THE RISKS AFFECTING SUNPOWER, INVESTORS SHOULD REFER TO SUNPOWER’S ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 28, 2008. THE CONTENTS OF SUCH FORM 10-K ARE EXPRESSLY NOT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE HEREIN. Currently unfavorable economic and market conditions, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have significant customer sales both in the U.S. and internationally. We are also reliant upon suppliers and distributors in the U.S. and internationally. We are therefore susceptible to adverse U.S. and international economic and market conditions, including the challenging economic conditions that have prevailed and continue to prevail in the U.S. and worldwide. The recent turmoil in the financial markets has resulted in dramatically higher borrowing costs that have made it more difficult (in some cases, prohibitively so) for many companies to obtain credit and fund their working capital obligations. If any of our customers, distributors or suppliers experiences serious financial difficulties or ceases operations, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the adverse impact of the credit crisis on consumers is expected to cause consumers to reduce their spending, which will adversely impact demand for consumer products such as certain end products in which our chips are embedded. In addition, prices of certain commodities, including oil, metals, grains and other food products, are volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. High or volatile commodity prices increase the cost of doing business and adversely affect consumers’ discretionary spending. As a result of the difficulty that businesses (including our customers) may have in obtaining credit, the increasing and/or volatile costs of commodities and the decreased consumer spending that is the likely result of the credit market crisis and commodities’ price volatility, continued global economic and market turmoil are likely to have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the spin-off of SunPower does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on both our shareholders and us. We received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that the spin-off of SunPower was eligible for tax-free treatment under Internal Revenue Code Section 355. In addition, we obtained an opinion of counsel on certain aspects of the spin-off assumed in the ruling. Both the IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of SunPower’s and our business. The IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion on the matters not covered by the IRS private letter ruling. If the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, it will be treated as a taxable distribution to our shareholders in an amount equal to the fair market value of SunPower’s equity securities (i.e., SunPower’s common stock issued to our common shareholders) received by them. In addition, we would be required to recognize gain in an amount up to the fair market value of the SunPower equity securities that we distributed on the distribution date. Furthermore, subsequent events, some of which are not in our control, could cause us to recognize gain on the distribution. For example, acquisitions of our equity securities or SunPower’s equity securities that are deemed to be part of a plan or a series of related transactions that include the distribution could cause us to recognize gain on the distribution. Although certain provisions of our tax sharing agreement with SunPower are intended to reduce the likelihood that SunPower will take such actions or indemnify us for certain of its actions, there can be no assurance that such provisions will mitigate or eliminate any possible tax risks or that SunPower would have the resources to satisfy any indemnity obligations. In addition, these restrictions, could under certain circumstances, limit our flexibility to undertake financings, acquisitions, stock repurchases or other transactions involving our stock which might otherwise be beneficial to us. 17 Table of Contents The trading price of Cypress’s common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile due to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. The trading price of Cypress’s common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile due to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • perceptions of general market conditions in the semiconductor industry and global market conditions; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • any major change in our board or management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory compliance; • recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates concerning us; • announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; • announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions on shares of our common stock; • economic conditions and growth expectations in the markets in which our customers participate; and • general economic and credit conditions. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We face significant volatility in supply and demand conditions for our products, and this volatility, as well as any failure by us to accurately forecast future supply and demand conditions, could materially and negatively impact our business. The semiconductor industry has historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, semiconductors. Demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of various electronics industries that use our products, including, but not limited to: • wireless telecommunications equipment; • computers and computer-related peripherals; • memory and image sensors; • networking equipment and • consumer electronics, automotive electronics and industrial controls. In addition, certain of our products, including USB micro-controllers and clocks, are incorporated into computer and computer-related products, which have historically experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in demand. Any downturn or reduction in the growth of these industries could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We order materials and build our products based primarily on our internal forecasts, customer and distributor forecasts and secondarily on existing orders, which may be cancelled under many circumstances. Because our markets are volatile and subject to rapid technological and price changes, our forecasts may be wrong causing us to make too many or too few of certain products. 18 Table of Contents Also, our customers frequently place orders requesting product delivery almost immediately after the order is made, which makes forecasting customer demand even more difficult, particularly when supply is abundant. If we experience inadequate demand or a significant shift in the mix of product orders that makes our existing capacity and capability inadequate, our fixed costs per semiconductor produced will increase, which will harm our financial condition and results of operations. Alternatively, if we should experience a sudden increase in demand, we will need to quickly ramp our inventory and/or manufacturing capacity to adequately respond to our customers. If we are unable to ramp our inventory or manufacturing capacity in a timely manner or at all, we risk losing our customers’ business, which could have a negative impact on our financial performance and reputation. In connection with our exit from our Texas facility, we completed a final build of a substantial volume of inventory for certain products previously manufactured at this facility totaling approximately $22 million at its current cost basis. This inventory now represents our sole source of supply for certain products and is intended to meet forecasted demand for these products for periods ranging from 2 to 15 years. To the extent that our forecasts of demand for any of these products prove to be inaccurate, we could be unable to meet customer demand and/or write-off significant quantities of obsolete inventory, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008 based upon current economic conditions, we evaluated the demand forecast related to these long term builds and determined that a demand reserve of approximately $2.5 million was required. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed if we fail to compete successfully in our highly competitive industry and markets. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. This intense competition results in a difficult operating environment that is marked by erosion of average selling prices over the life of each product and rapid technological change resulting in limited product life cycles. In order to offset selling price decreases, we attempt to decrease the manufacturing costs of our products and to introduce new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts are not successful or do not occur in a timely manner, or if our newly introduced products do not gain market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving semiconductor technology industry depends on many factors, including: • our success in developing new products, software platforms and manufacturing technologies and bringing them to market on a timely basis; • the quality and price of our products; • the diversity of our product line; • the cost effectiveness of our design, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts, especially as compared to our competitors; • our customer service; • our customer satisfaction; • our ability to successfully execute our flexible fab initiative; • the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their systems; • the number, strength and nature of our competitors, the markets they target and the rate of their technological advances; • general economic conditions; and • our access to and the availability of capital. Although we believe we currently compete effectively in the above areas to the extent they are within our control, given the pace of change in the industry, our current abilities are not a guarantee of future success. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. 19 Table of Contents Our financial results could be adversely impacted if we fail to develop, introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new technologies. Like many semiconductor companies, which operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that customers choose to buy. Our new products for example PSOC and West Bridge® are important sources of revenue for us and therefore, they tend to consume a significant amount of resources. The new products the market requires tend to be increasingly complex, incorporating more functions and operating at faster speeds than old products. Increasing complexity generally requires smaller features on a chip. This makes manufacturing new generation of products substantially more difficult than prior generations. Despite the significant amount of resources we commit to new products, there can be no guarantee that such products will perform as expected or at all, or gain market acceptance. If we fail to introduce new product designs in a timely manner or are unable to manufacture products according to the requirements of these designs, or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products, or market demand for our new products does not exist as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. The complex nature of our manufacturing activities and broad product portfolio makes us highly susceptible to manufacturing problems and these problems can have a substantial negative impact on us when they occur. Making semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Even very small impurities in our manufacturing materials, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other problems in the wafer fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous chips on each wafer to be non-functional. We and, similarly, our third party foundry partners, may experience problems in achieving an acceptable success rate in the manufacture of wafers and the likelihood of facing such difficulties is higher in connection with the transition to new manufacturing methods. The interruption of wafer fabrication or the failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields at any of our facilities, or the facilities of our third-party foundry partners, would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and test operations and in the introduction of new packaging materials. We are increasingly dependent upon third-parties to manufacture, distribute and transport our products and problems in the performance or availability of these companies could seriously harm our financial performance. Although a majority of our products were fabricated in our manufacturing facilities located in Minnesota and the Philippines, we rely to a significant extent on independent contractors to manufacture our products. We expect to increase this reliance on third party manufacturing in the future. For example, in December 2008, we substantially completed the exit of our manufacturing facility in Texas and transferred production to our more cost-competitive facility in Minnesota and outside foundries. In addition, if market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity and available capacity from our foundry partners, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements. A shortage in foundry manufacturing capacity, which is more likely to occur at times of increasing demand, could hinder our ability to meet demand for our products and therefore adversely affect our operating results. In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by any such foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases. Our operations would be disrupted if any of our foundry partners terminates its relationship with us or has financial issues and we are unable to arrange a satisfactory alternative to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. However, there are only a few foundry vendors that have the capabilities to manufacture our most advanced products. If we engage alternative sources of supply, we may encounter start-up difficulties and incur additional costs. Also, shipments could be delayed significantly while these sources are qualified for volume production. 20 Table of Contents While a high percentage of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our manufacturing facility located in the Philippines, we rely on independent subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products. We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms or at all and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so. Our channel partners include distributors and resellers. We continue to expand and change our relationships with our distributors and see an increase in the proportion of our revenues generated from our distributor channel in the future. For example, during the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we negotiated new terms with some of the distributors in Asia and under these new terms, these distributors were provided with price protection and stock rotation rights. We rely on many distributors to assist us in creating customer demand, providing technical support and other value-added services to our customers, filling customer orders and stocking our products. We face ongoing business risks due to our reliance on our channel partners to create and maintain customer relationships where we have a limited or no direct relationship. Should our relationships with our channel partners or their effectiveness decline, we face risk of declining demand which could affect our results of operations. In addition, our distributors are located all over the world and are of various sizes and financial conditions. Any disruptions to our distributors’ operations could have an adverse impact on our business, including the implementation of new terms for our distributors in Asia as discussed above. We also rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers. Transport or delivery problems due to their error or because of unforeseen interruptions in their business due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters or accidents could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers. If the software products that accompany our hardware contain unknown defects, it could result in loss of future revenue, decreased market acceptance, injury to our reputation and product liability claims. The programmability of our products, including PSoC products requires use of our proprietary software products. Our future success increasingly depends on our ability to develop and introduce new software products to enhance our PSoC portfolio of products. Further, software products occasionally contain errors or defects, especially when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. We cannot be certain that our products are currently or will be completely free of defects and errors. We could lose revenue as a result of product defects or errors. In addition, the discovery of a defect or error in a new version or product may result in the following consequences, among others: • delayed shipping of the products; • delay in or failure to achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • damage to our reputation; • product liability claims; and • increased service and warranty costs. As we gain market acceptance of our proprietary design software, we expect our software products to become more critical to our customers. Thus, a defect or error in our products could result in a significant disruption to our customers’ businesses. If we are unable to develop products that are free of defects or errors, or if we fail to introduce new software products in a timely manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Any guidance that we may provide about our business or expected future results may differ from actual results. 21 Table of Contents From time to time we have shared our views in press releases or SEC filings, on public conference calls and in other contexts about current business conditions and our expectations as to potential future results. Correctly identifying the key factors affecting business conditions and predicting future events is inherently an uncertain process especially in these very uncertain economic times that we are encountering. Our analyses and forecasts have in the past and, given the complexity and volatility of our business, will likely in the future, prove to be incorrect and could be materially incorrect. We offer no assurance that such predictions or analyses will ultimately be accurate, and investors should treat any such predictions or analyses with appropriate caution. Any analysis or forecast that we make which ultimately proves to be inaccurate may adversely affect our stock price. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately and may face significant expenses as a result of ongoing or future litigation. The protection of our intellectual property rights, as well as those of our subsidiaries, is essential to keeping others from copying the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. It may be possible for an unauthorized third party to reverse-engineer or decompile our software products. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Furthermore, our flexible fab initiative requires us to enter into technology transfer agreements with external partners, providing third party access to our intellectual property and resulting in additional risk. In some cases, these technology transfer and/or license agreements are with foreign companies and subject our intellectual property to foreign countries which may afford less protection and/or result in increased costs to enforce such agreements. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into these kinds of licensing arrangements in the future. Consequently, we may become involved in litigation, in the United States or abroad, to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of invalidity. We are also from time to time involved in litigation relating to alleged infringement by us of others’ patents or other intellectual property rights. Moreover, a key element of our strategy is to enter new markets with our products. If we are successful in entering these new markets, we will likely be subject to additional risks of potential infringement claims against us as our technologies are deployed in new applications and face new competitors. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights, particularly in certain international markets, making misappropriation of our intellectual property more likely. Patent litigation, if necessary or if and when instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Intellectual property litigation is frequently expensive to both the winning party and the losing party and could take up significant amounts of management’s time and attention. In addition, if we lose such a lawsuit, a court could find that our intellectual property rights are invalid, enabling our competitors to use our technology, or require us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties or prohibit us from using essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this type of litigation could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, although in certain instances we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If the recent worsening of credit market conditions continues or increases, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults and other financial, economic and credit issues have had a significant impact 22 Table of Contents across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets experienced credit issues during the second half of fiscal 2007 and continue into the first quarter of fiscal 2009, leading to liquidity disruption in asset-backed commercial paper and failed auctions in the auction rate market. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio includes auction rate securities, which are investments with contractual maturities generally between 20 and 30 years. They are usually found in the form of municipal bonds, preferred stock, a pool of student loans or collateralized debt obligations with interest rates resetting every seven to 49 days through an auction process. At the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. The auction rate securities held by us are primarily backed by student loans and are over-collateralized, insured and guaranteed by the United States Federal Department of Education. As of December 28, 2008, all auction rate securities held by us were rated as either AAA or Aaa by the major independent rating agencies. Subsequent to the year-end, 5% of the student loan auction rate securities have been downgraded from AAA to Baa3. The downgrade event was due to the higher rates the issuer is paying out versus the lending rates, which is preventing the issuer from building excess spread as required under the prospectus. If the financial market continues to deteriorate, future downgrades could potentially impact the rating of our auction rate securities. As of December 28, 2008, all of our auction rate securities have experienced failed auctions since the first quarter of fiscal 2008 due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. These failures are not believed to be a credit issue with the underlying investments, but rather caused by a lack of liquidity. Under the contractual terms, the issuer is obligated to pay penalty rates should an auction fail. In the event we need to access these funds associated with failed auctions, they are not expected to be accessible until one of the following occurs: a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the issue, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities have matured. Given these circumstances and the lack of liquidity, we have classified all of our auction rate securities as long-term investments as of December 28, 2008. During fiscal 2008, we performed analyses to assess the fair value of the auction rate securities and determined that a decline in value had occurred. Given the prolonged lack of liquidity in the market for auction rate securities and the continued decline in the valuation of these investments, management determined that the decline in value was other-than-temporary and recorded an impairment charge of $3.9 million in fiscal 2008. If the credit market continues to be illiquid and the valuation of these securities continues to decline, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Unfavorable outcome of litigation pending against us could materially impact our business. We are currently a party to various legal proceedings, claims, disputes and litigation. For example, we are defendants in purported consumer class action lawsuits alleging various claims under the Sherman Antitrust Act, state antitrust laws and unfair competition laws in the static random access memories (“SRAM”) markets. Our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any of these or other pending or future litigation. There can be no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation. Although management believes it has meritorious defenses to each of these matters and intends to vigorously defend itself, such litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. We face additional problems and uncertainties associated with international operations that could seriously harm us. International revenues historically accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues. Our manufacturing, assembly, test operations and certain finance operations located in the Philippines, as well as our international sales offices and design centers, face risks frequently associated with foreign operations including: • currency exchange fluctuations; • the devaluation of local currencies; • political instability; 23 Table of Contents • labor issues; • changes in local economic conditions; • import and export controls; • potential shortage of electric power supply; and • changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates. To the extent any such risks materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. To a greater degree than most non-technology companies, we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product and process engineers. We compete for these individuals with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. In connection with our 2008 restructuring effort, we have eliminated a number of positions and we expect additional employee terminations to take place in 2009. Even if such key personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. If we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. We are subject to many different environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and directives, and compliance with them may be costly. We are subject to many different international, federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to, among other things, the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process and the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. We cannot assure you that we have been, or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be fined or other wise sanctioned by the regulators. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible, without regard to fault, for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. Certain liabilities could also arise in connection with the shutdown activities related to our Texas manufacturing facility. While we are taking reasonable steps to ensure the Texas facility closure complies with all applicable federal, state and local environmental laws, the shutdown process is complicated, and if issues were to arise, they could delay the shutdown or sale of certain of the manufacturing equipment. Over the last several years, there has been increased public awareness of the potentially negative environmental impact of semiconductor manufacturing operations. This attention and other factors may lead to changes in environmental regulations that could force us to purchase additional equipment or comply with other potentially costly requirements. If we fail to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could face substantial liability or suspension of our manufacturing operations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union (Restriction on the Use of Hazardous Substances Directive 2002/95/EC, also known as the “RoHS Directive”) and similar legislation in China and California. Other countries, including at the federal and state 24 Table of Contents levels in the United States, are also considering laws and regulations similar to the RoHS Directive. Certain electronic products that we maintain in inventory may be rendered obsolete if not in compliance with the RoHS Directive or similar laws and regulations, which could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue from those products. Our customers and other companies in the supply chain may require us to certify that our products are RoHS compliant. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs or decreased revenue, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products. Our operations and financial results could be severely harmed by certain natural disasters. Cypress’s headquarters in California, manufacturing facilities in the Philippines and some of our major vendors’, subcontractors’ and strategic partners’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults or are subject to seasonal typhoons or other extreme weather conditions. We have not been able to maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs. Instead, we rely on self-insurance and preventative/safety measures. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster occurs, we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment, or make alternative arrangements in the event a vendor, subcontractor or partner’s facility or equipment was damaged, and we could suffer damages that could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to integrate our business and technologies with those of companies that we may acquire could adversely affect our financial results. We have made acquisitions and pursued other strategic relationships in the past and may pursue additional acquisitions in the future. If we fail to integrate these businesses successfully, our financial results may be seriously harmed. Integrating these businesses, people, products and services with our existing business could be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources. Specific issues that we face with regard to prior and future acquisitions include: • integrating acquired technology or products; • integrating acquired products into our manufacturing facilities; • integrating different accounting policies and methodologies; • assimilating and retaining the personnel of the acquired companies; • overcoming cultural and operational differences that may arise between two companies; • coordinating and integrating geographically dispersed operations; • our ability to retain customers of the acquired company; • the potential disruption of our and our suppliers’ ongoing business and distraction of management; • the maintenance of brand recognition of acquired businesses; • the failure to successfully develop acquired in-process technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; • unanticipated expenses related to technology integration; • the development and maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; and • the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. We maintain self-insurance for certain indemnities we have made to our officers and directors. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify our officers and directors for certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their service to us. We self-insure with respect to these indemnifiable claims. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities for which we self-insure, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. 25 Table of Contents We utilize debt financing and such indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, earnings per share and our ability to meet our payment obligations. We routinely incur indebtedness to finance our operations and at times we have had significant amounts of outstanding indebtedness and substantial debt service requirements. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any amended credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet payment obligations under indebtedness we may under take from time to time. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under any indebtedness we owe. If Grace Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation were to default on the leases we have guaranteed on their behalf, our financial condition could be harmed. As of December 28, 2008, we were continuing to serve as guarantor for approximately $32.4 million in lease payments due by Grace Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, a strategic foundry of Cypress. In conjunction with the master lease agreement, we have entered into a series of guarantees with a financing company for the benefit of Grace. If Grace fails to pay any of the quarterly rental payments, we will be obligated to pay such outstanding amounts within 10 days of a written demand from the financing company. If we fail to pay such amount, interest will accrue at a rate of 9% per annum on any unpaid amounts. To date, we have not been required to make any payments under these guarantees. However, if Grace were to default on the leases, it could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. We have implemented new Oracle-based applications to manage our worldwide financial, accounting and operations reporting, and disruptions in such tools could adversely affect our financial data. We have implemented various Oracle-based tools, including but not limited to, an order management system for revenue reporting and a warehouse management system for inventory reporting. We have taken what we believe are appropriate measures and performed testing to ensure the successful and timely implementation. However, implementations of this scope have inherent risks that in the extreme could lead to a disruption in our financial, accounting and operations reporting as well as the inability to obtain access to key financial data. Our spin-off of SunPower could adversely affect us. Equity awards and shares reserved for issuance under our 1994 and 1999 Stock Plans (together, the “Plans”) were adjusted in connection with the spin-off of SunPower. As expected, these adjustments resulted in a substantial increase in the percentage of our fully diluted capitalization (i.e., our outstanding shares of common stock together with stock options, restricted stock units, restricted stock and other instruments which may result in the issuance of shares of our common stock) represented by the Plans. This increase in our employee “overhang” resulted in additional dilution to our stockholders, which could adversely affect the trading price for our common stock. Also, now that we have distributed our shares of SunPower Class B common stock to our stockholders, we have lost the ability to sell such shares for cash to finance our operations or strategic initiatives. In addition, the size of our business as measured in various ways including revenue, net income and market capitalization has been reduced substantially as a result of the distribution. Finally, we no longer have significant operations in the solar business and our portfolio of businesses is less diversified such that we are more reliant upon our non-solar semiconductor businesses. Any of the foregoing factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or the trading price for our common stock. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 