Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Because our product candidates are still being developed, we will require substantial funds to continue; we cannot be certain that funds will be available and, if they are not available, we may have to take actions that could adversely affect your investment and may not be able to continue as a going concern. While our refocused business strategy will reduce capital expenditures and other operating expenses, we will need to commit substantial funds to continue development of our product candidates and we may not be able to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to raise additional funds in a manner that may dilute or otherwise adversely affect the rights of existing shareholders, 16 Table of Contents curtail or cease operations, or file for bankruptcy protection in extreme circumstances. We have spent, and we expect to continue to spend, substantial funds in connection with: • research and development relating to our product candidates and production technologies, • various human clinical trials, and • protection of our intellectual property. We finance our operations primarily through our multiple revenue streams resulting from the licensing of our antibody technologies, product royalties, development collaborations and biodefense contracts, and sales of XOMA’s common shares. Based on current spending levels, anticipated revenues, collaborator funding and other sources of funding we believe to be available, we estimate that we have sufficient cash resources to meet our anticipated net cash needs through the next twelve months, excluding a potential acceleration of debt due to an anticipated decline in RAPTIVA® royalty revenue in 2009. Any significant revenue shortfalls, increases in planned spending on development programs or more rapid progress of development programs than anticipated, as well as the unavailability of anticipated sources of funding, could shorten this period. We expect sales of RAPTIVA® to decline significantly as a result of recent events, and we anticipate that as a consequence we will be in violation of or default under the relevant provisions of our loan from Goldman Sachs during the second or third quarter of this year. In the event we are not able to restructure the terms of our loan from Goldman Sachs and otherwise maintain at least twelve months of cash resources, there will be substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. If adequate funds are not available, we will be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our product development programs and further reduce personnel-related costs. Progress or setbacks by potentially competing products may also affect our ability to raise new funding on acceptable terms. As a result, we do not know when or whether: • operations will generate meaningful funds, • royalties will be sufficient to meet debt covenants, • additional agreements for product development funding can be reached, • strategic alliances can be negotiated, or • adequate additional financing will be available for us to finance our own development on acceptable terms, or at all. Cash balances and operating cash flow are influenced primarily by the timing and level of payments by our licensees and development partners, as well as by our operating costs. Our independent registered public accountants have indicated there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included in their report for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 a qualification with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and the values we receive for our assets in liquidation could be significantly lower than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. The inclusion of a going concern qualification in our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit opinion for the year ended December 31, 2008 may materially adversely affect our share price and our ability to raise new capital. Global credit and financial market conditions may reduce our ability to access capital and cash and could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. Traditionally, we have funded a large portion of our research and development expenditures through raising capital in the equity markets. Recent events, including failures and bankruptcies among large commercial and 17 Table of Contents investment banks, have led to considerable declines and uncertainties in these and other capital markets and may lead to new regulatory and other restrictions that may broadly affect the nature of these markets. These circumstances could severely restrict the raising of new capital by companies such as us in the future. Recent volatility in the financial markets has also created liquidity problems in investments previously thought to bear a minimal risk. For example, money market fund investors, including us, have in the past been unable to retrieve the full amount of funds, even in highly-rated liquid money market accounts, upon maturity. An inability to retrieve funds from money market and similar short-term investments as they mature in the future could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, we have received the full amount of proceeds from matured money market fund investments. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. While as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments since December 31, 2008, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Our level of leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $63.3 million of indebtedness outstanding, including $12.9 million with Novartis and $50.4 million with Goldman Sachs Specialty Lending Holdings, Inc. (“Goldman Sachs”). We may not be able to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal of, interest on and other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness when due. We may also incur additional debt that may be secured. In connection with our original collaboration with Novartis, Novartis extended a loan to us (through our U.S. subsidiary) to fund up to 75% of our expenses thereunder, of which $12.9 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2008. The loan bears interest at an annual rate of six-month LIBOR plus 2%, which was equal to 3.85% at December 31, 2008, and any unpaid principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable in full in June of 2015. This loan is secured by a pledge of our interest in the collaboration. Although the collaboration was restructured in November of 2008 and we may not draw any additional funds under the loan facility, we remain liable for amounts previously borrowed under this facility. In November of 2006, XOMA (US) LLC entered into a five-year, $35.0 million term royalty-based loan facility with Goldman Sachs and borrowed the full amount thereunder. In May of 2008, this term loan facility was replaced with a new five-year term royalty-based loan facility. The loan bears interest at an annual rate equal to the greater of six-month LIBOR or 3%, plus a margin of 8.5%. As of December 31, 2008, the interest rate on this loan was 12.3%. The outstanding balance of the new facility as of December 31, 2008 was $50.4 million. The new Goldman Sachs loan is guaranteed by XOMA and secured by the payment rights relating to RAPTIVA®, LUCENTIS® and CIMZIA® . So long as this loan is outstanding, these assets will not be available to XOMA or any other lender to secure future indebtedness. Our level of debt and debt service obligations could have important effects on us and our investors. These effects may include: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our obligations to other persons with respect to our other debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or renew existing financing at maturity on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements; 18 Table of Contents • increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns, competition and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that are less leveraged; • increasing our exposure to rising interest rates to the extent any of our borrowings are at variable interest rates; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate requirements because we will be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to service debt obligations; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance and the availability of refinancing debt. If we are unable to service our debt and fund our business, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional debt financing or equity capital, restructure or refinance our debt or sell assets. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain additional financing, refinance existing debt or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. In particular, although we may prepay our debt to Goldman Sachs at any time, in order to do so we would be required to pay certain specified prepayment premiums if prepaid within the first four years which we may not have sufficient funds to pay or which may be prohibitively high under the circumstances at the time we would otherwise choose to repay such debt. Because we expect the royalty payments we receive on sales of RAPTIVA® to decline significantly, we anticipate that we will be in violation of or default under our debt to Goldman Sachs if we cannot successfully restructure the terms of this debt. Our loan agreement with Goldman Sachs includes provisions that allow the lenders to accelerate our obligation to repay the debt or to pursue other remedies against us in certain circumstances. For example, the terms of this debt include a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a specified ratio of royalties collected to interest payable and another covenant that requires quarterly U.S. and outside-the-U.S. sales of RAPTIVA® and LUCENTIS® to exceed certain specified minimum levels. This means that our ability to comply with these requirements is dependent on continued sales by Genentech, UCB and their partners of these products at adequate levels, and any significant reduction in such sales could cause us to violate or be in default under these provisions, which could result in acceleration of our obligation to repay this debt. In February of 2009, the EMEA announced that it has recommended suspension of the marketing authorization of RAPTIVA® in the European Union, EMD Serono announced that, in consultation with Health Canada, it will suspend marketing of RAPTIVA® in Canada and the FDA issued a public health advisory concerning three confirmed reports, and one possible report, of PML in patients using RAPTIVA®. We expect sales of RAPTIVA® to decline significantly as a result of these and other related events, and we anticipate that as a consequence we will be in violation of or default under the relevant provisions of this loan during the second or third quarter of this year. We are currently in discussions with the lenders regarding a restructuring of the terms of this loan to address the effects of these developments. However, there can be no assurance that we will reach agreement with the lenders on acceptable terms, or at all, as a result of these discussions. If the trading price of our common shares fails to comply with the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market, we would face possible delisting, which would result in a limited public market for our common shares and make obtaining future debt or equity financing more difficult for us. NASDAQ-listed companies are subject to delisting for, among other things, failure to maintain a minimum closing bid price per share of $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. The closing price per share of our common shares was below $1.00 for 13 consecutive business days during November and December of 2008 and has been below $1.00 since December 9, 2008. NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the minimum bid price requirement in 19 Table of Contents response to current market conditions. This suspension is currently set to expire on April 20, 2009. Although NASDAQ had informally indicated that it may extend this suspension, there can be no assurance that it will do so. If we do not continue to comply with the continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Global Market, then NASDAQ may provide written notification regarding the delisting of our securities. At that time, we would have the right to request a hearing to appeal the NASDAQ determination and would also have the option to apply to transfer our securities to The NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot be sure that our price will comply with the requirements for continued listing of our common shares on The NASDAQ Global Market, or that any appeal of a decision to delist our common shares will be successful. If our common shares lose their status on The NASDAQ Global Market and we are not successful in obtaining a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common shares would likely trade in the over-the-counter market. If our shares were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our common shares could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common shares are delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common shares, further limiting the liquidity thereof. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for common shares. Such delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market or future declines in our share price could also greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and could significantly increase the ownership dilution to shareholders caused by our issuing equity in financing or other transactions. Consent under the Exchange Control Act 1972 (and its related regulations) has been obtained from the Bermuda Monetary Authority for the issue and transfer of our shares, notes and other securities to and between non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes, but this consent is conditional on our shares remaining listed on an appointed stock exchange. We cannot assure you that the Bermuda Monetary Authority will give the same or a similar consent in the event our common shares are no longer listed on The NASDAQ Global Market or another appointed stock exchange. In the absence of such a general consent, specific consents of the Bermuda Monetary Authority would be required for certain issues and transfers of our shares, notes and other securities. Because all of our product candidates are still being developed, we have sustained losses in the past and we expect to sustain losses in the future. We have experienced significant losses and, as of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $785.1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had a net loss of approximately $45.2 million or $0.34 per common share (basic and diluted). For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a net loss of approximately $12.3 million or $0.10 per common share (basic and diluted). Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent in large part on the success of our development programs, obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates and entering into new agreements for product development, manufacturing and commercialization, all of which are uncertain. Our ability to fund our ongoing operations is dependent on the foregoing factors and on our ability to secure additional funds. Because our product candidates are still being developed, we do not know whether we will ever achieve sustained profitability or whether cash flow from future operations will be sufficient to meet our needs. We may issue additional equity securities and thereby materially and adversely affect the price of our common shares. We are authorized to issue, without shareholder approval, 1,000,000 preference shares, of which 2,959 were issued and outstanding as of March 6, 2009, which may give other shareholders dividend, conversion, voting, and 20 Table of Contents liquidation rights, among other rights, which may be superior to the rights of holders of our common shares. In addition, we are authorized to issue, generally without shareholder approval, up to 210,000,000 common shares, of which 142,244,227 were issued and outstanding as of March 6, 2009. If we issue additional equity securities, the price of our common shares may be materially and adversely affected. On October 21, 2008, we entered into a common share purchase agreement with Azimuth Opportunity, Ltd. (“Azimuth”), pursuant to which we obtained a committed equity line of credit facility under which we may sell up to $60 million of our registered common shares to Azimuth over a 24-month period, subject to certain conditions and limitations. As of March 6, 2009, we have sold 7,932,432 common shares under this facility for aggregate gross proceeds of $7.5 million. The financial terms of future collaborative or licensing arrangements could result in dilution of our share value. Funding from collaboration partners and others has in the past and may in the future involve issuance by us of our shares. Because we do not currently have any such arrangements, we cannot be certain how the purchase price of such shares, the relevant market price or premium, if any, will be determined or when such determinations will be made. Any such issuance could result in dilution in the value of our issued and outstanding shares. Our share price may be volatile and there may not be an active trading market for our common shares. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common shares will not decline below its present market price or that there will be an active trading market for our common shares. The market prices of biotechnology companies have been and are likely to continue to be highly volatile. Fluctuations in our operating results and general market conditions for biotechnology stocks could have a significant impact on the volatility of our common share price. We have experienced significant volatility in the price of our common shares. From January 1, 2008 through March 6, 2009, our share price has ranged from a high of $3.37 to a low of $0.48. Factors contributing to such volatility include, but are not limited to: • sales and estimated or forecasted sales of products for which we receive royalties, • results of preclinical studies and clinical trials, • information relating to the safety or efficacy of products or product candidates, • developments regarding regulatory filings, • announcements of new collaborations, • failure to enter into collaborations, • developments in existing collaborations, • our funding requirements and the terms of our financing arrangements, • technological innovations or new indications for our therapeutic products and product candidates, • introduction of new products or technologies by us or our competitors, • government regulations, • developments in patent or other proprietary rights, • the number of shares issued and outstanding, • the number of shares trading on an average trading day, • announcements regarding other participants in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and • market speculation regarding any of the foregoing. 21 Table of Contents Our therapeutic product candidates have not received regulatory approval. If these product candidates do not receive regulatory approval, neither our third party collaborators nor we will be able to manufacture and market them. Our product candidates cannot be manufactured and marketed in the United States and other countries without required regulatory approvals. The United States government and governments of other countries extensively regulate many aspects of our product candidates, including: • testing, • manufacturing, • promotion and marketing, and • exporting. In the United States, the FDA regulates pharmaceutical products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. At the present time, we believe that most of our product candidates will be regulated by the FDA as biologics. Initiation of clinical trials requires approval by health authorities. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or to patients under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA and International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (“ICH”) Good Clinical Practices and the European Clinical Trials Directive under protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Other national, foreign and local regulations may also apply. The developer of the drug must provide information relating to the characterization and controls of the product before administration to the patients participating in the clinical trials. This requires developing approved assays of the product to test before administration to the patient and during the conduct of the trial. In addition, developers of pharmaceutical products must provide periodic data regarding clinical trials to the FDA and other health authorities, and these health authorities may issue a clinical hold upon a trial if they do not believe, or cannot confirm, that the trial can be conducted without unreasonable risk to the trial participants. We cannot assure you that U.S. and foreign health authorities will not issue a clinical hold with respect to any of our clinical trials in the future. The results of the preclinical studies and clinical testing, together with chemistry, manufacturing and controls information, are submitted to the FDA and other health authorities in the form of a new drug application for a pharmaceutical product, and in the form of a BLA for a biological product, requesting approval to commence commercial sales. In responding to a new drug application or an antibody license application, the FDA or foreign health authorities may grant marketing approvals, request additional information or further research, or deny the application if it determines that the application does not satisfy its regulatory approval criteria. Regulatory approval of a new drug application, BLA, or supplement is never guaranteed, and the approval process can take several years and is extremely expensive. The FDA and foreign health authorities have substantial discretion in the drug and biologics approval processes. Despite the time and expense incurred, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical, clinical or manufacturing-related studies. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in, or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. State regulations may also affect our proposed products. The FDA has substantial discretion in both the product approval process and manufacturing facility approval process and, as a result of this discretion and uncertainties about outcomes of testing, we cannot predict at what point, or whether, the FDA will be satisfied with our or our collaborators’ submissions or whether the FDA will raise questions which may be material and delay or preclude product approval or manufacturing facility approval. As we accumulate additional clinical data, we will submit it to the FDA, and such data may have a material impact on the FDA product approval process. 22 Table of Contents Even once approved, a product may be subject to additional testing or significant marketing restrictions or its approval may be withdrawn. Even if the FDA, the European Commission or another regulatory agency approves a product candidate for marketing, the approval may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials, and the FDA, European Commission or other regulatory agency may subsequently withdraw approval based on these additional trials Even for approved products such as RAPTIVA®, LUCENTIS® and CIMZIA®, the FDA, European Commission or other regulatory agency may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product. For example, in February of 2009, the FDA issued a public health advisory concerning three confirmed reports, and one possible report, of PML in patients using RAPTIVA®. Genentech has stated that it is working with the FDA to determine appropriate next steps, which may include significant restrictions in the use of, or suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval for, RAPTIVA®. Furthermore, a marketing approval of a product may be withdrawn by the FDA, the European Commission or another regulatory agency based, for example, on subsequently-arising safety concerns. In February of 2009, the EMEA announced that it has recommended suspension of the marketing authorization of RAPTIVA® in the European Union and that the CHMP has concluded that the benefits of RAPTIVA® no longer outweigh its risks because of safety concerns, including the occurrence of PML in patients taking the medicine. The FDA, European Commission and other agencies also may impose various civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval. We face uncertain results of clinical trials of our potential products. Our potential products, including XOMA 052 and XOMA 3AB, will require significant additional research and development, extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials and regulatory approval prior to any commercial sales. This process is lengthy and expensive, often taking a number of years. As clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals, the length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly. As a result, it is uncertain whether: • our future filings will be delayed, • our preclinical and clinical studies will be successful, • we will be successful in generating viable product candidates to targets, • we will be able to provide necessary additional data, • results of future clinical trials will justify further development, or • we will ultimately achieve regulatory approval for any of these product candidates. For example, in 2003, we completed two Phase 1 trials of XOMA 629, a BPI-derived topical peptide compound targeting acne, evaluating the safety, skin irritation and pharmacokinetics. In January of 2004, we announced the initiation of Phase 2 clinical testing in patients with mild-to-moderate acne. In August of 2004, we announced the results of a Phase 2 trial with XOMA 629 gel. The results were inconclusive in terms of clinical benefit of XOMA 629 compared with vehicle gel. In 2007, after completing an internal evaluation of this program, we chose to reformulate and focus development efforts on the use of this reformulated product candidate in superficial skin infections, including impetigo and the eradication of staphylococcus aureus, including MRSA. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we decided to curtail all spending on XOMA 629 in response to current economic conditions and to focus our financial resources on XOMA 052. 23 Table of Contents The timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of clinical trials may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes, including scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria, and shortages of available drug supply. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. In addition, we will conduct clinical trials in foreign countries in the future which may subject us to further delays and expenses as a result of increased drug shipment costs, additional regulatory requirements and the engagement of foreign clinical research organizations, as well as expose us to risks associated with foreign currency transactions insofar as we might desire to use U.S. dollars to make contract payments denominated in the foreign currency where the trial is being conducted. All of our product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Preclinical studies may not yield results that would satisfactorily support the filing of an IND (or a foreign equivalent) with respect to our product candidates. Even if these applications would be or have been filed with respect to our product candidates, the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict the results of clinical trials. Similarly, early-stage clinical trials in healthy volunteers do not predict the results of later-stage clinical trials, including the safety and efficacy profiles of any particular product candidates. In addition, there can be no assurance that the design of our clinical trials is focused on appropriate indications, patient populations, dosing regimens or other variables which will result in obtaining the desired efficacy data to support regulatory approval to commercialize the drug. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, FDA officials or officials from foreign regulatory authorities could interpret the data in different ways than we or our partners do, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Administering any of our products or potential products may produce undesirable side effects, also known as adverse effects. Toxicities and adverse effects that we have observed in preclinical studies for some compounds in a particular research and development program may occur in preclinical studies or clinical trials of other compounds from the same program. Such toxicities or adverse effects could delay or prevent the filing of an IND (or a foreign equivalent) with respect to such products or potential products or cause us to cease clinical trials with respect to any drug candidate. In clinical trials, administering any of our products or product candidates to humans may produce adverse effects. These adverse effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our products and product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our products or product candidates for any or all targeted indications. The FDA, other regulatory authorities, our partners or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Even if one or more of our product candidates were approved for sale, the occurrence of even a limited number of toxicities or adverse effects when used in large populations may cause the FDA to impose restrictions on, or stop, the further marketing of such drugs. Indications of potential adverse effects or toxicities which may occur in clinical trials and which we believe are not significant during the course of such clinical trials may later turn out to actually constitute serious adverse effects or toxicities when a drug has been used in large populations or for extended periods of time. Any failure or significant delay in completing preclinical studies or clinical trials for our product candidates, or in receiving and maintaining regulatory approval for the sale of any drugs resulting from our product candidates, may severely harm our reputation and business. Given that regulatory review is an interactive and continuous process, we maintain a policy of limiting announcements and comments upon the specific details of regulatory review of our product candidates, subject to our obligations under the securities laws, until definitive action is taken. Certain of our technologies are relatively new and are in-licensed from third parties, so our capabilities using them are unproven and subject to additional risks. We license technologies from third parties. These technologies include but are not limited to phage display technologies licensed to us in connection with our bacterial cell expression technology licensing program. However, our experience with some of these technologies remains relatively limited and, to varying degrees, we 24 Table of Contents are still dependent on the licensing parties for training and technical support for these technologies. In addition, our use of these technologies is limited by certain contractual provisions in the licenses relating to them and, although we have obtained numerous licenses, intellectual property rights in the area of phage display are particularly complex. If the owners of the patent rights underlying the technologies we license do not properly maintain or enforce those patents, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce our licensed intellectual property. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we have licenses, or our licensors may fail to maintain existing patents. They may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or they may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Our licensors may also seek to terminate our license, which could cause us to lose the right to use the licensed intellectual property and adversely affect our ability to commercialize our technologies, products or services. Our present and future revenues rely significantly on sales of products marketed and sold by others. Currently, our revenues rely significantly upon sales of RAPTIVA® and LUCENTIS®, in which we have only royalty interests. RAPTIVA® was approved by the FDA on October 27, 2003, for the treatment of chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. Genentech and Merck Serono, Genentech’s international marketing partner for RAPTIVA®, are responsible for the marketing and sales effort in support of this product. In September of 2004, Merck Serono announced that RAPTIVA® had received approval for use in the European Union and the product was launched in several European Union countries in the fourth quarter of 2004. LUCENTIS® was approved by the FDA on June 30, 2006, for the treatment of age-related macular degeneration. Genentech and Novartis, Genentech’s international marketing partner for LUCENTIS®, are responsible for the marketing and sales effort in support of this product. We also receive revenues from sales of CIMZIA® in the U.S. and Switzerland, in which we only have a royalty interest, and royalties received therefrom through December 31, 2008 have been immaterial. CIMZIA® was approved by the FDA on April 22, 2008 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe Crohn’s disease in adults who have not responded to conventional therapies. In March of 2008, UCB announced that the CHMP of the EMEA had rejected UCB’s appeal following CHMP’s previously-announced refusal of UCB’s marketing authorization application for CIMZIA® in the treatment of Crohn’s disease. UCB is responsible for the marketing and sales effort in support of this product. We have no role in marketing and sales efforts, and Genentech, Merck Serono, Novartis and UCB do not have an express contractual obligation to us regarding the marketing or sales of RAPTIVA®, LUCENTIS® or CIMZIA®. Successful commercialization of RAPTIVA®, LUCENTIS® and CIMZIA® is subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • Genentech’s, Merck Serono’s, Novartis’ and UCB’s willingness and ability to implement their marketing and sales effort and achieve sales; • the strength of competition from other products being marketed or developed to treat psoriasis, age-related macular degeneration and Crohn’s disease; • the occurrence of adverse events which may give rise to safety concerns; • physicians’ and patients’ acceptance of RAPTIVA® as a treatment for psoriasis, LUCENTIS® as a treatment for age-related macular degeneration and CIMZIA® as a treatment for Crohn’s disease; • manufacturer’s ability to provide manufacturing capacity to meet demand for the products; • pricing and reimbursement issues; and • expiration of patents and royalties. For example, in February of 2009, the EMEA announced that it has recommended suspension of the marketing authorization of RAPTIVA® in the European Union and EMD Serono has announced that, in consultation with Health Canada, it will suspend marketing of RAPTIVA® in Canada. Merck Serono has stated 25 Table of Contents that it will work closely with the European health authorities to undertake all necessary measures to comply with the EMEA recommendation. Also in February of 2009, the FDA issued a public health advisory concerning three confirmed reports, and one possible report, of PML in patients using RAPTIVA®. Genentech has stated that, based on the medical information available for these cases, it believes that RAPTIVA® increases the risk of PML and that prolonged exposure to RAPTIVA® or older age may further increase this risk. Genentech has also stated that it is working with the FDA to determine appropriate next steps, which may include significant restrictions in the use of, or suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval for, RAPTIVA®. We expect sales of RAPTIVA® to decline significantly as a result of these events. According to Genentech, United States sales of RAPTIVA® during 2008 were $108 million, compared with $107 million and $90 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. According to Merck Serono, sales of RAPTIVA® outside of the U.S. during 2008 were approximately $134 million, compared with $106 million and $70 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. According to Genentech, U.S. sales of LUCENTIS® were $875 million during 2008 compared with $815 million and $380 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. According to Novartis, sales of LUCENTIS® outside the United States were $886 million in 2008 compared with $393 million and $27 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. According to UCB, worldwide sales of CIMZIA® were approximately $13 million during 2008. Given our current reliance on RAPTIVA® and LUCENTIS® as principal sources of revenues, any material adverse developments with respect to the commercialization of RAPTIVA® or LUCENTIS® may cause our revenues to decrease and may cause us to incur additional losses in the future. We do not know whether there will be, or will continue to be, a viable market for the products in which we have an ownership or royalty interest. Although RAPTIVA® was approved in the United States in October of 2003 and in the European Union in 2004 and LUCENTIS® was approved in the United States in June of 2006, in the European Union in January of 2007 and in Japan in January of 2009, their acceptance in the marketplace may not continue. Although CIMZIA® was approved in the United States in April of 2008 and in Switzerland in September of 2007, it may not be accepted in the marketplace. Furthermore, even if other products in which we have an interest receive approval in the future, they may not be accepted in the marketplace. In addition, we or our collaborators or licensees may experience difficulties in launching new products, many of which are novel and based on technologies that are unfamiliar to the healthcare community. We have no assurance that healthcare providers and patients will accept such products, if developed. For example, physicians and/or patients may not accept a product for a particular indication because it has been biologically derived (and not discovered and developed by more traditional means) or if no biologically derived products are currently in widespread use in that indication. Similarly, physicians may not accept a product, such as RAPTIVA®, LUCENTIS® or CIMZIA®, if they believe other products to be more effective or are more comfortable prescribing other products. Safety concerns may also arise in the course of on-going clinical trials or patient treatment as a result of adverse events or reactions. For example, in February of 2009, the EMEA announced that it has recommended suspension of the marketing authorization of RAPTIVA® in the European Union and EMD Serono has announced that, in consultation with Health Canada, it will suspend marketing of RAPTIVA® in Canada. Merck Serono has stated that it will work closely with the European health authorities to undertake all necessary measures to comply with the EMEA recommendation. Also in February of 2009, the FDA issued a public health advisory concerning three confirmed reports, and one possible report, of PML in patients using RAPTIVA®. Genentech has stated that, based on the medical information available for these cases, it believes that RAPTIVA increases the risk of PML and that prolonged exposure to RAPTIVA® or older age may further increase this risk. Genentech has also stated that it is working with the FDA to determine appropriate next steps, which may include significant restrictions in the use of, or suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval for, RAPTIVA® and that it will likely see a reduction in demand for RAPTIVA® in the future. We expect demand for RAPTIVA® to decline significantly as a result of these events. 26 Table of Contents Furthermore, government agencies, as well as private organizations involved in healthcare, from time to time publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers and patients. Such guidelines or recommendations can be very influential and may adversely affect the usage of any products we may develop directly (for example, by recommending a decreased dosage of a product in conjunction with a concomitant therapy or a government entity withdrawing its recommendation to screen blood donations for certain viruses) or indirectly (for example, by recommending a competitive product over our product). Consequently, we do not know if physicians or patients will adopt or use our products for their approved indications. We or our third party collaborators or licensees may not have adequate manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet market demand. Genentech is responsible for manufacturing or arranging for the manufacturing of commercial quantities of RAPTIVA® and LUCENTIS®. UCB is responsible for manufacturing or arranging for the manufacturing of commercial quantities of CIMZIA®. Should Genentech or UCB have difficulty in providing manufacturing capacity to produce these products in sufficient quantities, we do not know whether they will be able to meet market demand. If not, we will not realize revenues from the sales of these products. If any of our product candidates are approved, because we have never commercially introduced any pharmaceutical products, we do not know whether the capacity of our existing manufacturing facilities can be increased to produce sufficient quantities of our products to meet market demand. Also, if we or our third party collaborators or licensees need additional manufacturing facilities to meet market demand, we cannot predict that we will successfully obtain those facilities because we do not know whether they will be available on acceptable terms. In addition, any manufacturing facilities acquired or used to meet market demand must meet the FDA’s quality assurance guidelines. Our agreements with third parties, many of which are significant to our business, expose us to numerous risks. Our financial resources and our marketing experience and expertise are limited. Consequently, our ability to successfully develop products depends, to a large extent, upon securing the financial resources and/or marketing capabilities of third parties. • In April of 1996, we entered into an agreement with Genentech whereby we agreed to co-develop Genentech’s humanized monoclonal antibody product RAPTIVA®. In April of 1999, March of 2003, and January of 2005, the companies amended the agreement. In October of 2003, RAPTIVA® was approved by the FDA for the treatment of adults with chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy and, in September of 2004, Merck Serono announced the product’s approval in the European Union. In January of 2005, we entered into a restructuring of our collaboration agreement with Genentech which ended our existing cost and profit sharing arrangement related to RAPTIVA® in the United States and entitles us to a royalty interest on worldwide net sales. • In March of 2004, we announced we had agreed to collaborate with Chiron Corporation (now Novartis) for the development and commercialization of antibody products for the treatment of cancer. In April of 2005, we announced the initiation of clinical testing of the first product candidate out of the collaboration, HCD122, an anti-CD40 antibody, in patients with advanced CLL. In October of 2005, we announced the initiation of the second clinical trial of HCD122 in patients with multiple myeloma. In November of 2008, we announced the restructuring of this product development collaboration, which involves six development programs including the ongoing HCD122 program. In exchange for cash and debt reduction on our existing loan facility with Novartis, Novartis will have control over the HCD122 program and the additional ongoing program, as well as the right to expand the development of these programs into additional indications outside of oncology. We may, in the future, receive milestones of up to $14.0 million and double-digit royalty rates for two ongoing product programs, including HCD122. The agreement also provides us with options to develop or receive royalties on four additional programs. 27 Table of Contents • In March of 2005, we entered into a contract with NIAID to produce three monoclonal antibodies designed to protect United States citizens against the harmful effects of botulinum neurotoxin used in bioterrorism. In July of 2006, we entered into an additional contract with NIAID for the development of an appropriate formulation for human administration of these three antibodies in a single injection. In September of 2008, we announced that we were awarded an additional contract with NIAID to support our on-going development of drug candidates toward clinical trials in the treatment of botulism poisoning. • We have licensed our bacterial cell expression technology, an enabling technology used to discover and screen, as well as develop and manufacture, recombinant antibodies and other proteins for commercial purposes, to over 50 companies. As of December 31, 2008, we were aware of two antibody products manufactured using this technology that have received FDA approval, Genentech’s LUCENTIS® (ranibizumab injection) for treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration and UCB’s CIMZIA® (certolizumab pegol) for treatment of Crohn’s disease. Because our collaborators and licensees are independent third parties, they may be subject to different risks than we are and have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources they will apply related to their agreements with us. If these collaborators and licensees do not successfully develop and market these products, we may not have the capabilities, resources or rights to do so on our own. We do not know whether our collaborators or licensees will successfully develop and market any of the products that are or may become the subject of one of our collaboration or licensing arrangements. In particular, each of these arrangements provides for funding solely by our collaborators or licensees. Furthermore, our contracts with NIAID contain numerous standard terms and conditions provided for in the applicable federal acquisition regulations and customary in many government contracts. Uncertainty exists as to whether we will be able to comply with these terms and conditions in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, given our relative lack of experience in programs under contract with government agencies, we are uncertain as to the extent of NIAID’s demands and the flexibility that will be granted to us in meeting those demands. Even when we have a collaborative relationship, other circumstances may prevent it from resulting in successful development of marketable products. • In September of 2004, we entered into a collaboration arrangement with Aphton for the treatment of gastrointestinal and other gastrin-sensitive cancers using anti-gastrin monoclonal antibodies. In January of 2006, Aphton announced that its common stock had been delisted from NASDAQ. In May of 2006, Aphton filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11, Title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. • In September of 2005, we signed a letter agreement with Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Cubist”) to develop production processes and to manufacture a novel two-antibody biologic in quantities sufficient to conduct Phase 3 clinical trials. In July of 2006, Cubist announced that it had decided to cease investment in this product candidate because of stringent FDA requirements for regulatory approval, and as a result we have terminated our letter agreement with Cubist. • In September of 2006, we entered into an agreement with Taligen Therapeutics, Inc. (“Taligen”) which formalized an earlier letter agreement, which was signed in May of 2006, for the development and cGMP manufacture of a novel antibody fragment for the potential treatment of inflammatory diseases. In May of 2007, we and Taligen entered into a letter agreement which provides that we will not produce a cGMP batch at clinical scale pursuant to the terms of the agreement entered into in September of 2006. In addition, the letter agreement provides that we will conduct and complete the technical transfer of the process to Avecia Biologics Limited or its designated affiliate (“Avecia”). The letter agreement also provides that, subject to payment by Taligen of approximately $1.7 million, we will grant to Avecia a non-exclusive, worldwide, paid-up, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, perpetual license under our-owned project innovations. We have received $0.6 million as the first installment under the payment terms of the letter agreement and are entitled to receive two additional 28 Table of Contents payments totaling approximately $1.1 million upon fulfillment of certain obligations. We have not received any further payments from Taligen and do not know whether we will receive the remaining $1.1 million. This amount has not been recognized as revenue and is not included as an accounts receivable asset as of December 31, 2008. Although we continue to evaluate additional strategic alliances and potential partnerships, we do not know whether or when any such alliances or partnerships will be entered into. Products and technologies of other companies may render some or all of our products and product candidates noncompetitive or obsolete. Developments by others may render our products, product candidates, or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive. Technologies developed and utilized by the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are continuously and substantially changing. Competition in the areas of genetically engineered DNA-based and antibody-based technologies is intense and expected to increase in the future as a number of established biotechnology firms and large chemical and pharmaceutical companies advance in these fields. Many of these competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, including that they may have: • significantly greater financial resources, • larger research and development and marketing staffs, • larger production facilities, • entered into arrangements with, or acquired, biotechnology companies to enhance their capabilities, or • extensive experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials. These factors may enable others to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own or those of our collaborators. In addition, a significant amount of research in biotechnology is being carried out in universities and other non-profit research organizations. These entities are becoming increasingly interested in the commercial value of their work and may become more aggressive in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements. Furthermore, many companies and universities tend not to announce or disclose important discoveries or development programs until their patent position is secure or, for other reasons, later; as a result, we may not be able to track development of competitive products, particularly at the early stages. Positive or negative developments in connection with a potentially competing product may have an adverse impact on our ability to raise additional funding on acceptable terms. For example, if another product is perceived to have a competitive advantage, or another product’s failure is perceived to increase the likelihood that our product will fail, then investors may choose not to invest in us on terms we would accept or at all. The examples below pertain to competitive events in the market which we review quarterly and are not intended to be representative of all existing competitive events. Without limiting the foregoing, we are aware that: XOMA 052 XOMA has initiated clinical testing of XOMA 052, a potent anti-inflammatory monoclonal antibody targeting IL-1 beta, in Type 2 diabetes patients. It is possible that other companies may be developing other products based on the same therapeutic target as XOMA 052 and that these products may prove more effective than XOMA 052. We are aware that: • Amgen has been developing AMG 108, a fully human monoclonal antibody that targets inhibition of the action of IL-1. On April 28, 2008, Amgen discussed results from its recently completed Phase 2 study in rheumatoid arthritis. AMG 108 showed statistically significant improvement in the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and was well tolerated. Amgen announced it is focusing on other opportunities for the antibody. 29 Table of Contents • In 2008, Biovitrum AB obtained a worldwide exclusive license to Amgen Inc.’s Kineret® (anakinra) for its current approved indication. Kineret® is an IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) currently marketed to treat rheumatoid arthritis and has been evaluated over the years in multiple IL-1 mediated diseases, including Type 2 diabetes and other indications we are considering for XOMA 052. • Novartis has been developing ACZ885 or canakinumab, a fully human anti-IL-1beta monoclonal antibody targeting IL-1 beta, and reported positive results in Phase 1 proof of concept clinical trials in rheumatoid arthritis and in Muckle-Wells Syndrome in June of 2006. In July of 2007, they reported advancing ACZ885 into Phase 3 clinical trials for Muckle-Wells Syndrome and in December of 2007, they entered Phase 2 testing of ACZ885 in patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus. • In February of 2008, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Regeneron”) announced it had received marketing approval from the FDA for ARCALYST™ (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use, an interleukin-1 blocker or IL-1 Trap, for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes, including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome and Muckle-Wells Syndrome in adults and children 12 and older. In September of 2007, Regeneron also announced that treatment with rilonacept demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in patient pain scores in a single-blind, placebo run-in-controlled study of 10 patients with chronic active gout. In November of 2007, Regeneron announced it had initiated a Phase 2 safety and efficacy trial of rilonacept in the prevention of gout flares induced by the initiation of uric acid-lowering drug therapy used to control the disease. In September of 2008, Regeneron announced that the recently completed Phase 2 study of rilonacept demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in gout flares versus the placebo. XOMA 3AB • In May of 2006, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services awarded Cangene Corporation a five-year, $362 million contract under Project Bioshield. The contract requires Cangene to manufacture and supply 200,000 doses of an equine heptavalent botulism anti-toxin to treat individuals who have been exposed to the toxins that cause botulism. • Emergent BioSolutions, Inc. is currently in development of a botulism immunoglobulin candidate that may compete with our anti-botulinum neurotoxin monoclonal antibodies. • We are aware of additional companies that are pursuing biodefense-related antibody products. PharmAthene and Human Genome Sciences, Inc. are developing anti-anthrax antibodies. Cangene and Emergent BioSolutions, Inc. are developing anti-anthrax immune globulin products. These products may compete with our efforts in the areas of other monoclonal antibody-based biodefense products, and the manufacture of antibodies to supply strategic national stockpiles. RAPTIVA® • In April of 2004, Amgen Inc. and its partner Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, a division of Wyeth, announced that their rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis drug, Enbrel®, had been approved by the FDA for the same psoriasis indication as RAPTIVA® and, in September of 2004, they announced that the product received approval in the European Union in this same indication. • On January 18, 2008, Abbott Labs announced that the FDA had approved Humira® (adalimumab) as a treatment for adult patients with moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis. Abbott Labs had previously announced in December of 2007 that Humira® (adalimumab) had received marketing authorization from the European Commission for use as a treatment for moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. • In September of 2006, Centocor, Inc. (“Centocor”), a unit of Johnson & Johnson, announced that its rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn’s disease drug, Remicade® (infliximab) had been approved by the FDA for the treatment of adult patients with chronic severe (i.e. extensive and/or disabling) plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy and when other systemic therapies are medically less 30 Table of Contents appropriate. This drug had already been approved to treat plaque psoriasis in the European Union, psoriatic arthritis in the United States and, in combination with methotrexate, in the European Union. • In June of 2008, Centocor announced that an advisory panel to the FDA has unanimously recommended approval of ustekinumab (CNTO 1275), a fully human monoclonal antibody that targets the cytokines interleukin-12 (IL-12) and interleukin-23 (IL-23) for the treatment of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. In November of 2008, the CHMP adopted a positive opinion for ustekinumab for the treatment of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed to respond to other systemic therapies, and in December of 2008 the Canadian Health Authority approved the use of ustekinumab for the treatment of chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy. • Astellas Pharma US, Inc. purchased the worldwide rights to Amevive® , which has been approved in the United States and Canada to treat the same psoriasis indication as RAPTIVA®, from Biogen Idec Inc. (“Biogen”), in March of 2006. • In February of 2009, the EMEA announced that it has recommended suspension of the marketing authorization of RAPTIVA® in the European Union, EMD Serono announced that, in consultation with Health Canada, it will suspend marketing of RAPTIVA® in Canada and the FDA issued a public health advisory concerning three confirmed reports, and one possible report, of PML in patients using RAPTIVA®. Genentech has stated that it expects RAPTIVA® to lose market share to competitors due to cases of PML in RAPTIVA® patients. • Other companies are developing monoclonal antibody or other products for treatment of inflammatory skin disorders. LUCENTIS® In addition to LUCENTIS®, there are two other FDA-approved therapies to treat macular degeneration: Pfizer’s and OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Macugen® and Novartis’ and QLT Inc.’s Visudyne®. LUCENTIS® also competes with Genentech’s cancer drug Avastin®. CIMZIA® In addition to CIMZIA®, there are two other FDA-approved anti-TNF therapies to treat moderate-to-severe active Crohn’s disease in adults: Johnson & Johnson’s Remicade® (infliximab) and Abbott Laboratories’ Humira® (adalimumab). Manufacturing risks and inefficiencies may adversely affect our ability to manufacture products for ourselves or others. To the extent we continue to provide manufacturing services for our own benefit or to third parties, we are subject to manufacturing risks. Additionally, unanticipated fluctuations in customer requirements have led and may continue to lead to manufacturing inefficiencies. We must utilize our manufacturing operations in compliance with regulatory requirements, in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, while maintaining acceptable product quality and manufacturing costs. Additional resources and changes in our manufacturing processes may be required for each new product, product modification or customer or to meet changing regulatory or third party requirements, and this work may not be successfully or efficiently completed. In addition, to the extent we continue to provide manufacturing services, our fixed costs, such as facility costs, would be expected to increase, as would necessary capital investment in equipment and facilities. Manufacturing and quality problems may arise in the future to the extent we continue to perform these services for our own benefit or for third parties. Consequently, our development goals or milestones may not be achieved in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, to the extent we continue to make investments to improve our manufacturing operations, our efforts may not yield the improvements that we expect. 31 Table of Contents Because many of the companies we do business with are also in the biotechnology sector, the volatility of that sector can affect us indirectly as well as directly. As a biotechnology company that collaborates with other biotech companies, the same factors that affect us directly can also adversely impact us indirectly by affecting the ability of our collaborators, partners and others we do business with to meet their obligations to us and reduce our ability to realize the value of the consideration provided to us by these other companies. For example, in connection with our licensing transactions relating to our bacterial cell expression technology, we have in the past and may in the future agree to accept equity securities of the licensee in payment of license fees. The future value of these or any other shares we receive is subject both to market risks affecting our ability to realize the value of these shares and more generally to the business and other risks to which the issuer of these shares may be subject. As we do more business internationally, we will be subject to additional political, economic and regulatory uncertainties. We may not be able to successfully operate in any foreign market. We believe that, because the pharmaceutical industry is global in nature, international activities will be a significant part of our future business activities and that, when and if we are able to generate income, a substantial portion of that income will be derived from product sales and other activities outside the United States. Foreign regulatory agencies often establish standards different from those in the United States, and an inability to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis could put us at a competitive disadvantage or make it uneconomical to proceed with a product or product candidate’s development. International operations and sales may be limited or disrupted by: • imposition of government controls, • export license requirements, • political or economic instability, • trade restrictions, • changes in tariffs, • restrictions on repatriating profits, • exchange rate fluctuations, • withholding and other taxation, and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. If we and our partners are unable to protect our intellectual property, in particular our patent protection for our principal products, product candidates and processes, and prevent its use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed, and we may not realize our profit potential. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret, and trademark laws to protect our proprietary technology and prevent others from duplicating our products or product candidates. However, these means may afford only limited protection and may not: • prevent our competitors from duplicating our products; • prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology, or • permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Because of the length of time and the expense associated with bringing new products to the marketplace, we and our partners hold and are in the process of applying for a number of patents in the United States and abroad 32 Table of Contents to protect our product candidates and important processes and also have obtained or have the right to obtain exclusive licenses to certain patents and applications filed by others. However, the mere issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or its enforceability. The United States Federal Courts or equivalent national courts or patent offices elsewhere may invalidate our patents or find them unenforceable. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products, or services, and our competitors could commercialize our technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share that would harm our business and operating results. Specifically, the patent position of biotechnology companies generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The legal standards governing the validity of biotechnology patents are in transition, and current defenses as to issued biotechnology patents may not be adequate in the future. Accordingly, there is uncertainty as to: • whether any pending or future patent applications held by us will result in an issued patent, or that if patents are issued to us, that such patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or competitive technologies, • whether competitors will be able to design around our patents or develop and obtain patent protection for technologies, designs or methods that are more effective than those covered by our patents and patent applications, or • the extent to which our product candidates could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to costly litigation, result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and/or prevent us from using technology that is essential to our business. We have established an extensive portfolio of patents and applications, both United States and foreign, related to our BPI-related product candidates, including novel compositions, their manufacture, formulation, assay and use. We have also established a portfolio of patents, both United States and foreign, related to our bacterial cell expression technology, including claims to novel promoter sequences, secretion signal sequences, compositions and methods for expression and secretion of recombinant proteins from bacteria, including immunoglobulin gene products. Most of the more important European patents in our bacterial cell expression patent portfolio expired in July of 2008. If certain patents issued to others are upheld or if certain patent applications filed by others issue and are upheld, we may require licenses from others in order to develop and commercialize certain potential products incorporating our technology or we may become involved in litigation to determine the proprietary rights of others. These licenses, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, and any such litigation may be costly and may have other adverse effects on our business, such as inhibiting our ability to compete in the marketplace and absorbing significant management time. Due to the uncertainties regarding biotechnology patents, we also have relied and will continue to rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advancement to develop and maintain our competitive position. All of our employees have signed confidentiality agreements under which they have agreed not to use or disclose any of our proprietary information. Research and development contracts and relationships between us and our scientific consultants and potential customers provide access to aspects of our know-how that are protected generally under confidentiality agreements. These confidentiality agreements may be breached or may not be enforced by a court. To the extent proprietary information is divulged to competitors or to the public generally, such disclosure may adversely affect our ability to develop or commercialize our products by giving others a competitive advantage or by undermining our patent position. Litigation regarding intellectual property can be costly and expose us to risks of counterclaims against us. We may be required to engage in litigation or other proceedings to protect our intellectual property. The cost to us of this litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also divert management’s attention and resources. In addition, if this litigation is resolved against us, our patents may be 33 Table of Contents declared invalid, and we could be held liable for significant damages. In addition, we may be subject to a claim that we are infringing another party’s patent. If such claim is resolved against us, we or our collaborators may be enjoined from developing, manufacturing, selling or importing products, processes or services unless we obtain a license from the other party. Such license may not be available on reasonable terms, thus preventing us from using these products, processes or services and adversely affecting our revenue. Even if we or our third party collaborators or licensees bring products to market, we may be unable to effectively price our products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products, which would prevent our products from becoming profitable. If we or our third party collaborators or licensees succeed in bringing our product candidates to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. In both the United States and elsewhere, sales of medical products and treatments are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement to the patient from third-party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and services. Our business is affected by the efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare through various means. In the United States, there have been and will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement government controls on pricing. In addition, the emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and will continue to increase the pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or the effect these proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business. Healthcare reform measures and other statutory or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to extensive regulation, and from time to time legislative bodies and governmental agencies consider changes to such regulations that could have significant impact on industry participants. For example, in light of certain highly-publicized safety issues regarding certain drugs that had received marketing approval, the U.S. Congress is considering various proposals regarding drug safety, including some which would require additional safety studies and monitoring and could make drug development more costly. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to safety or other aspects of drug development may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are also affected by the efforts of governments, third-party payors and others to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare to consumers. In the United States and various foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system, such as proposals relating to the reimportation of drugs into the U.S. from other countries (where they are then sold at a lower price) and government control of prescription drug pricing. The pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our share price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic collaborations or licenses. We are exposed to an increased risk of product liability claims. The testing, marketing and sales of medical products entails an inherent risk of allegations of product liability. In the event of one or more large, unforeseen awards of damages against us, our product liability insurance may not provide adequate coverage. A significant product liability claim for which we were not covered by insurance would have to be paid from cash or other assets. To the extent we have sufficient insurance coverage, such a claim would result in higher subsequent insurance rates. In addition, product liability claims can have various other ramifications including loss of future sales opportunities, increased costs associated with replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and reputation, which could also adversely affect our business and operating results. 34 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, could delay or prevent achieving our objectives. Our research, product development and business efforts could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key members of our scientific or management staff, particularly our executive officers: Steven B. Engle, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; Fred Kurland, our Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Patrick J. Scannon, M.D., Ph.D., our Executive Vice President and Chief Biotechnology Officer; and Christopher J. Margolin, our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. We currently have no key person insurance on any of our employees. We may not realize the expected benefits of our initiatives to reduce costs across our operations. We are pursuing and may continue to pursue a number of initiatives to reduce costs across our operations, including workforce reductions. In January of 2009, we implemented a workforce reduction of approximately 42% in order to improve our cost structure. We expect an annualized reduction of approximately $27 million in cash expenditures when changes are completed in the second quarter of 2009 and to record a charge in the first quarter of 2009 of approximately $3 million for severance and other costs related to the workforce reduction. We anticipate that we will incur some level of restructuring charges through the remainder of 2009 as we continue to implement these cost reduction initiatives. We may not realize some or all of the expected benefits of our current and future initiatives to reduce costs. In addition to restructuring or other charges, we may experience disruptions in our operations as a result of these initiatives. Because we are a relatively small biopharmaceutical company with limited resources, we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success in developing marketable products and achieving a competitive position will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and management personnel, particularly in areas requiring specific technical, scientific or medical expertise. We had approximately 335 employees as of March 6, 2009, and due to a workforce reduction, we expect to have approximately 200 employees as of March 17, 2009. We anticipate that we will require additional experienced executive, accounting, research and development, legal, administrative and other personnel in the future. There is intense competition for the services of these personnel, especially in California. Moreover, we expect that the high cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters and manufacturing facilities are located, may impair our ability to attract and retain employees in the future. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel and retaining and motivating existing personnel, our operations may suffer and we may be unable to implement our current initiatives or grow effectively. Calamities, power shortages or power interruptions at our Berkeley headquarters and manufacturing facility could disrupt our business and adversely affect our operations, and could disrupt the businesses of our customers. Our principal operations are located in Northern California, including our corporate headquarters and manufacturing facility in Berkeley, California. In addition, many of our collaborators and licensees are located in California. All of these locations are in areas of seismic activity near active earthquake faults. Any earthquake, terrorist attack, fire, power shortage or other calamity affecting our facilities or our customers’ facilities may disrupt our business and could have material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be subject to increased risks because we are a Bermuda company. Alleged abuses by certain companies that have changed their legal domicile from jurisdictions within the United States to Bermuda have created an environment where, notwithstanding that we changed our legal 35 Table of Contents domicile in a transaction that was approved by our shareholders and fully taxable to our company under United States law, we may be exposed to various prejudicial actions, including: • “blacklisting” of our common shares by certain pension funds, • legislation restricting certain types of transactions, and • punitive tax legislation. We do not know whether any of these things will happen, but if implemented one or more of them may have an adverse impact on our future operations or our share price. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained against us because we are a foreign entity. We are a Bermuda company. All or a substantial portion of our assets, including substantially all of our intellectual property, may be located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders and others to enforce in United States courts judgments obtained against us. We have irrevocably agreed that we may be served with process with respect to actions based on offers and sales of securities made hereby in the United States by serving Christopher J. Margolin, c/o XOMA Ltd., 2910 Seventh Street, Berkeley, California 94710, our United States agent appointed for that purpose. Uncertainty exists as to whether Bermuda courts would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws or entertain original actions brought in Bermuda against us or such persons predicated upon the United States securities laws. There is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for such enforcement, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of United States courts. Certain remedies available under the United States federal securities laws may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that nation’s policy. Our shareholder rights agreement or bye-laws may prevent transactions that could be beneficial to our shareholders and may insulate our management from removal. In February of 2003, we adopted a new shareholder rights agreement (to replace the shareholder rights agreement that had expired), which could make it considerably more difficult or costly for a person or group to acquire control of us in a transaction that our Board of Directors opposes. Our bye-laws: • require certain procedures to be followed and time periods to be met for any shareholder to propose matters to be considered at annual meetings of shareholders, including nominating directors for election at those meetings; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 preference shares without shareholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights, of those shares as the Board of Directors may determine; and • contain provisions, similar to those contained in the Delaware General Corporation Law that may make business combinations with interested shareholders more difficult. These provisions of our shareholders rights agreement and our bye-laws, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of common shares, could limit the ability of shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests, and could make it considerably more difficult for a potential acquirer to replace management. 36 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 