Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our units, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on the Partnership, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. As discussed below, macadamia nut trees are subject to damage or destruction from diseases, pests, floods, droughts, windstorms, hurricanes, volcanic activity and other natural causes. Partnership tree replacements for all orchards from all causes were 0.3% in 2010, 0.4% in 2009, and 0.1% in 2008. Both crop and tree insurance are in place to help protect the Partnership against significant and catastrophic losses. Dependence Upon Single Nut Purchaser. Since 2010, the Partnership has relied upon a single customer, Mauna Loa, to purchase all of the nuts that it produces under various nut purchase agreements, which require the Partnership to sell and Mauna Loa to buy all of the Partnership’s production of macadamia nuts at various prices. Any disruption of that relationship could significantly adversely affect the Partnership. The Partnership relies on Mauna Loa’s timely performance and payment under the nut purchase agreements for all of its revenues from the sale of nuts. If the buyer breached its obligation to pay for the macadamia nuts delivered, the Partnership would suffer substantial financial difficulty since its major source of revenue will have ceased. The Partnership would need to seek another buyer for all or some of the nuts. In the short run, it is unlikely that the Partnership would be able to find another buyer for a large quantity of nuts to replace Mauna Loa since there is a limited number of buyers for nuts in Hawaii. It is possible that the Partnership would not be able to find any customer to replace Mauna Loa or that if it was able to find purchasers for some or all of the nuts that such sales would not be able to be made at the same terms or price or for amounts that would cover the costs of the Partnership’s production of such nuts. If Mauna Loa were late in making payments to the Partnership, it could stop the delivery of 8 macadamia nuts to it. However, if the wet in shell macadamia nuts are not husked and processed within a limited amount of time they will deteriorate and have no further commercial value to the Partnership. Accordingly, any cessation of shipments is only a short term response. Since the Partnership does not have the facilities to process its nuts, the loss of this customer could result in its inability to preserve commercial value in its nut production until alternatives, if any, were found. Nut Purchase Agreements. The Partnership has several nut purchase agreements with Mauna Loa. One nut purchase contract covers all of its production, other than the IASCO orchards, during 2011 and provides for a fixed price. There are three agreements requiring the purchase of nuts from the IASCO Orchards and they expire in 2029, 2078 and 2080 and provide for market determined prices. For the orchards other than the IASCO Orchards, commencing in 2012, approximately one third of the production is covered by a one year agreement, one third by a two year agreement and one third by a three year agreement all at a fixed price. Fixed price contracts can be disadvantageous because the Partnership may not be able to pass on unexpected cost increases as they arise but they provide protection against adverse decline in market prices. A market price mechanism subjects the Partnership to the risk of a decline in world macadamia nut prices, which may or may not result in a price which covers the Partnership’s cost of production. The limited terms of the agreements for non IASCO orchards subject the Partnership to the risk that if the agreements are not renewed, it will not have a buyer for a portion of its nuts and to the risk that any negotiated renewal could result in less advantageous terms to the Partnership. The Partnership’s ability to renew or obtain waivers under its credit facilities is highly dependent upon the continued existence of its nut purchase agreements and their timely performance by Mauna Loa. Accordingly, the failure to maintain nut purchase agreements with Mauna Loa for its production in the future, would significantly affect the Partnership’s ability to secure the necessary funds to finance its current working capital needs. For further information see “BUSINESS OF THE PARTNERSHIP Owned-Orchard Segment Nut Purchase Contracts.” Loan Agreement Restrictions. The Partnership relies on external loan financing, currently being provided by a Credit Agreement with American Ag Credit Capital Markets through a revolving loan and a term note. This loan contains various terms and conditions, including financial ratios, covenants and is secured by all of the real and personal property of the Partnership. The term loan matures on July 1, 2020. The revolving loan matures on July 13, 2012. This Credit Agreement prohibits distributions to partners without the prior consent of the lender. On multiple occasions during the last several years and as recently as the end of 2010, the Partnership has failed to comply with various covenants or financial ratios under its loan agreements, but has been able to obtain waivers or modifications of the agreement to avoid a default. If the Partnership is unable to meet the terms and conditions of its lending arrangements or is unable to obtain waivers or modifications of such lending arrangements, it could be in default of its loan agreements and the lender would be able to accelerate the obligations and realize on the collateral securing the indebtedness. There is no assurance that the Partnership will be able to comply with its loan facilities or obtain waivers or modifications in the future to avoid a default. For further information see “BUSINESS OF THE PARTNERSHIP Loan Agreement.” Diseases and Pests. Macadamia trees are susceptible to various diseases and pests which can affect the health of the trees and resultant nut production. There are several types of fungal diseases, which can affect flower and nut development. One of these is Phytophthora capsici, which affects the macadamia flowers and developing nuts, and another, Botrytis cinerea, causes senescence of the macadamia blossom before pollination is completed. These types of fungal disease are generally controllable with fungicides. Historically, these fungi have infested the reproductive plant parts at orchards located in Keaau and Mauna Kea during periods of persistent inclement weather. Tree losses may occur due to a problem known as “Macadamia Quick Decline” (“MQD”). Research at the University of Hawaii indicates that this affliction is due to Phytophthora capsici which is associated with high moisture and poor drainage conditions. Both the Keaau and Mauna Kea Orchards are areas with high moisture conditions, and may be more susceptible to the MQD problem. Afflicted trees in these regions are replaced with cultivars that are intolerant to MQD. The Partnership’s Keaau orchards experienced tree replacement of 0.7% in 2010, 0.9% in 2009 and 0.2% in 2008. 9 Macadamia trees and production may also be affected by insects and other pests. The Southern Green Stink Bug disfigures the mature kernel and contributes to a historical loss of nuts of 1.2%. Two natural enemies, a wasp and a fly, effectively keep nut losses at acceptable levels. An insect known as the Koa Seed Worm (“KSW”) causes fully sized nuts to fall that have not completed kernel development. The affect of the KSW contribute to an average loss of nuts of 4.0%. The Tropical Nut Borer Beetle (“TNB”) bores through the mature macadamia shell and feeds on the kernel. Nut damage caused by the TNB is not recorded as a defect by the current processor. However, field surveys indicate that nut losses attributed to TNB was less than 1% in 2010. Damages caused by each insect may fluctuate when unfavorable environmental conditions affect the natural enemy population. Natural enemies are relied upon to manage insects that contribute to nut loss. Without these natural enemies, greater losses are possible. Pesticides may be available to manage these economic insect pests when treatment costs and nut loss justify its use, and when its use does not disrupt the natural enemy population. Honey bees are placed in the orchards to supplement other insect pollinators during the flower season. In late 2008, the Hawaii Department of Agriculture identified the Varroa mite on feral honey bees near the port of Hilo, Hawaii. This mite is an ectoparasite that attaches to the body of honey bees and weakens it which can result in destroying bee hives and colonies. The apiaries that place hives in the macadamia nut orchards must manage this pest with miticide to maintain healthy bee colonies and avoid the development of pest resistance to the miticide. Rainstorms and Floods. The Partnership’s orchards are located in areas on the island of Hawaii that are susceptible to heavy rainstorms. In November 2000, the Ka’u region was affected by flooding. This flooding resulted in some nut loss and expected 2000 harvesting being deferred to 2001. Since the flood in 2000 heavy rain in the Ka’u region has not produced flooding of any consequence. Windstorms. Some of the Partnership’s orchards are located in areas on the island of Hawaii that are susceptible to windstorms. Twenty-five major windstorms have occurred on the island of Hawaii since 1961, and four of those caused material losses to Partnership orchards. Most of the Partnership’s orchards are surrounded by windbreak trees, which provide limited protection. Younger trees that have not developed extensive root systems are particularly vulnerable to windstorms. Insurance. The Partnership obtains tree insurance each year under a federally subsidized program. The tree insurance for 2011 provides coverage up to a maximum of approximately $14.9 million against catastrophic loss of trees due to wind, fire or volcanic activity. Crop insurance was purchased for the 2010-2011 crop year and provides coverage up to a maximum of approximately $12.4 million against loss of nuts due to wind, fire, volcanic activity, earthquake, adverse weather, wildlife damage and failure of irrigation water supplies. Volcanoes. The Partnership’s orchards are located on the island of Hawaii, where there are two active volcanoes. To date, no lava flows from either volcano have affected or threatened the orchards. Rainfall. The productivity of orchards depends in large part on moisture conditions. Inadequate rainfall can reduce nut yields significantly, while excessive rain without adequate drainage can foster disease and hamper harvesting operations. While rainfall at the orchards located in the Keaau and Mauna Kea areas has generally been adequate, the orchards located in the Ka’u area generally receive less rainfall and, as a result, a portion of the Ka’u orchards is presently irrigated. Irrigation can mitigate the effects of a drought, but it cannot completely protect a macadamia nut crop from the effect of a drought. Recorded rainfall at each of the three locations of the Partnership’s orchards for the past five years is shown below: 10 Year Ka’u Keaau Mauna Kea 2006 70.9” 138.7” 178.3” 2007 37.8” 126.7” 158.3” 2008 44.7” 136.2” 125.4” 2009 43.0” 132.8” 147.0” 2010 17.1” 65.8” 96.3” During 2010, the Ka’u, Keaau and Mauna Kea areas recorded 43%, 52% and 69%, respectively, of the normal average annual rainfall in their area of the island. Water Supply for Irrigation. With the May 2000 acquisition of the farming business, the Partnership acquired an irrigation well (the “Sisal Well”), which supplies water to the Partnership’s orchards in Ka’u which were purchased in June 1986 and 1989. The Sisal Well is situated on land owned by Mauna Kea Agribusiness Company, Inc. (“MKACI”). On May 1, 2000, the Partnership entered into a license agreement with MKACI, which allows the Partnership necessary access to maintain and operate the Sisal Well, as well as the use of roads to access, maintain and operate the Partnership’s macadamia orchards. Annual rent for the license agreement is One Dollar. The license agreement terminates on June 30, 2045 or earlier if the May 1, 2000 lease between Partnership and KACI is terminated by mutual consent. If the amount of water provided by the Sisal Well becomes insufficient to irrigate the above named orchards, the Partnership may consider increasing the capacity of the Sisal Well, drilling an alternative well into the historical source which provides water to the Sisal Well or obtaining water from other sources. On a historical basis, the quantity of water available from the Sisal Well has been generally sufficient to irrigate these orchards in accordance with prudent farming practices. The irrigated portion of the Ka’u II Orchards is expected to need greater quantities of water as the orchards mature. The Partnership anticipates that the amount of water available from the Sisal well will be generally sufficient, assuming average levels of rainfall, to irrigate the irrigated orchards in accordance with prudent farming practices for the next several years. If no irrigation water is available to the irrigated orchards, then, based on historical average rainfall levels, diminished yields of macadamia nut production can be expected. In August 2010 the company purchased the macadamia nut orchards, land and assets used in connection with macadamia nut farming operation from IASCO. Included in the assets is an irrigation well (the “Palima Well”) that supplies water for the IASCO orchards, orchards owned by New Hawaii Macadamia Nut Co. (“NHMNC”), and trees owned by ML Macadamia Orchards, L.P. on leased land from the State of Hawaii. Under a prior agreement with IASCO, NHMNC received a portion of the water pumped out of the Palima Well and ML Macadamia Orchards, L.P., as the new owner of this well, is obligated to continue this service. The well provides supplemental irrigation and is generally sufficient, assuming average levels of rainfall, to sustain nut production at historical norms. Without irrigation, diminished yields are expected. Employees. Our farming operations require a large number of workers, many on a seasonal basis. The labor market on the island of Hawaii is very competitive and most of our employees are unionized under contracts which expire in May 2011. In previous years, we have obtained the services of foreign workers, which we have not continued. In the event that we are not able to obtain and retain both permanent and seasonal workers to conduct our farming operations, or in the event that we are not able to maintain satisfactory relationships with our unionized workers, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Key Personnel. Certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, technical and support personnel. We cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in those 11 positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. Environmental. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate our properties and our farming operations and could make us liable for costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property that we currently own, lease or that we previously owned or leased or upon which we currently or previously conducted farming operations. These laws could impose liabilities without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to use or sell certain real property, use it as collateral or result in fines or clean up costs. Future environmental laws could impact our farming operations or increase our cost of goods. Significant influence over our affairs may be exercised by substantial Class “A” unit holders. As of March 7, 2011, the Class “A” unit holders holding more than 5% of the units are Fred and Mary Wilkie Ebrahimi (approximately 39.6% beneficial ownership), Barry W. Blank Living Trust (approximately 7.8% beneficial ownership) and Leap Tide Capital Management, Inc. (approximately 6.3% beneficial ownership). Fred and Mary Wilkie Ebrahimi or the collaboration of the principal shareholders would have the ability to control or block approval of any transactions, including modifications to the partnership agreement that may be sought without their support. Also, the significant concentration of shareholding may deter persons desiring to make bids to acquire the company, since they may not be able to do so without the cooperation of these principal shareholders. Effective October 1, 2009 Bradford C. Nelson was elected as a director of the Partnership. Mr. Nelson has been Chief Financial Officer of Seemorgh Investments, Inc., a company owned by Mr. Fred Ebrahimi, since January 2007 and has served as an officer and director of a group of companies in the United States of America, Europe and Asia owned by the Ebrahimi family since 2002. Holders of Class “A” units of the Partnership have limited voting rights. Our unit holders have limited voting rights on matters affecting the Partnership’s business, which may have a negative effect on the price at which the Partnership’s units trade. In particular, the unit holders did not elect the directors of the general partner. Furthermore, if unit holders are not satisfied with the performance of the directors they may find it difficult to remove any or all of the directors as the Partnership Agreement requires a vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding units to remove the General Partner. Tax risks to Class “A” unit holders. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in the Partnership’s units depends largely on the treatment of the Partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as the Partnership not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Partnership were to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then the Partnership’s cash available for distribution to unit holders could materially decline. The tax liability of unit holders could exceed their distributions or proceeds from sales of Class “A” units. Because the unit holders will generally be treated as partners to whom the Partnership will allocate taxable income, which can differ in amount than the cash distributed, the unit holders will be required to pay any federal income tax and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of the Partnership’s income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of the Partnership’s Class “A” units could be more or less than expected. If a unit holder disposes of his units, the unit holder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unit holder’s tax basis. Because distributions in excess of a unit holder’s allocable share of the Partnership’s net taxable income decrease the unit holder’s tax basis in the unit holder’s units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income, if the units sold are at a price greater than the unit holder’s tax basis, even if the price received is less than the unit holder’s original cost. 12 The book and tax treatment of the units have changed over the years and at this time for tax purposes the unit holder will experience higher earnings or lower loss compared to the income determined under GAAP. Furthermore, given the Partnership’s current financing agreement, unit holders should not expect to receive any distributions from their units and, thus, will have to bear tax liability on any income allocable to them. As a result of investing in the Partnership’s Class “A” units, a unit holder may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in the states where the Partnership owns property and conducts business. Ownership of the Partnership’s Class “A” units raises issues for tax-exempt entities and other investors. Available Information. The Partnership files annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the Commission. These filings are available free of charge through the Partnership’s Internet website at www.mlmacadamia.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Partnership electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Commission. The Partnership’s corporate governance guidelines, board committee charters and code of conduct are also available on the website, free of charge. Any unit holder, who so requests may obtain a printed copy of these documents from the Partnership, by contacting the Partnership at 808-969-8057, or in writing at 26-238 Hawaii Belt Road, Hilo, Hawaii 96720. 