Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company does not provide forecasts of its future financial performance. However, from time to time, information provided by the Company or statements made by its employees may contain “forward looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts (including, but not limited to statements contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to liquidity and capital resources) may constitute forward looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The Company disclaims any obligation, except as specifically required by law and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in the Company’s expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward looking statements. The Company’s actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and may in the future vary significantly from those stated in any forward looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, without limitation, the risks, uncertainties and other information discussed below and within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the accuracy of the Company’s internal estimates of revenue and operating expense levels. The following discussion of the Company’s risk factors should be read in conjunction with the financial statements contained herein and related notes thereto. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. A Weak Global Economy and Softening in the Computer Software Market May Result in Decreased Revenues or Lower Revenue Growth Rates The profitability of the Company’s business depends on the overall demand for computer software and services, particularly in the financial services markets and other markets in which it competes. Tighter credit and negative financial news resulting from the recent worldwide recession may continue to have an adverse affect on the market for computer software and result in significant fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies. Because the Company’s sales are primarily to major corporate customers, poor economic conditions may continue to soften the demand for computer software and services which may result in decreased revenues, lower revenue growth rates and reduced profitability. In addition, a weak global economy may result in longer sales cycles, reduced, deferred or cancelled orders, or greater than anticipated uncollectible accounts receivables. In a weakened economy, the Company cannot be assured that it will be able to effectively promote future growth in its software and services revenues or maintain profitability. The Company’s Dependence on its Principal Products and its Failure to Develop Enhanced or New Products May Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations In the year ended September 30, 2011, the Monarch Report Analytics platform accounted for approximately 91% of the Company’s total revenue. The Company is primarily dependent on its Monarch Report Analytics platform products. As a result, any factor adversely affecting sales of any of these products could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of new and enhanced versions of these products and development of new versions of these and other products and subsequent customer acceptance of such new and enhanced products. In addition, competitive pressures or other factors may result in significant price erosion that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations The Company’s future operating results could vary substantially from quarter-to-quarter because of uncertainties and/or risks associated with such matters as current economic conditions, technological change, competition, delays in the introduction of new products or product enhancements and general market trends. In addition, as the Company focuses on increasing enterprise sales, the timing of significant orders may cause - 8 - fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Historically, the Company has operated with minimal backlog of orders because its software products are generally shipped as orders are received. As a result, net sales in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Further, any increases in sales under the Company’s subscription sales model could result in decreased revenues over the short term. Because the Company’s staffing and operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of the Company’s costs are fixed in the short-term, small variations in the timing of revenues can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter-to-quarter. Because of these factors, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. The Company can give no assurance that it will not experience such variations in operating results in the future or that such variations will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Dependence on New Product Introductions and New Product Delays or Defects Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business Growth in the Company’s business depends in substantial part on the continuing introduction of new products. The length of product life cycles depends in part on end-user demand for new or additional functionality in the Company’s products and its ability to update its products to meet such demands. If the Company fails to accurately anticipate the demand for, or encounters any significant delays in developing or introducing, new products or additional functionality in its products, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Product life cycles can also be affected by suppliers of operating systems introducing new or changed functionality within their products. The failure of the Company to anticipate the introduction of additional functionality in products developed by such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company’s competitors may introduce products with more features and lower prices than the Company’s products. Such increase in competition could adversely affect the life cycles of the Company’s products, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Software products, whether developed internally or licensed from third parties, may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by the Company and by current and potential end-users, errors will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. Any failure by the Company to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Market Price of the Company’s Stock Has Been and May Continue to Be Volatile As seen recently with the turmoil in the financial markets, and is frequently the case with the stocks of high technology companies, the market price of the Company’s common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Factors such as quarterly fluctuations in results of operations, increased competition, the introduction of new products by the Company or its competitors, expenses or other difficulties associated with assimilating companies acquired by the Company, changes in the mix of sales channels, the timing of significant customer orders, and macroeconomic conditions generally, may have a significant impact on the market price of the stock of the Company. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings from the levels anticipated by securities analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock in any given period. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market price for many high technology companies and which, on occasion, have appeared to be unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Finally, to maintain its stock listing with NASDAQ, the Company must be in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, including but not limited to, minimum bid price requirements. If it is not able to maintain compliance with these rules, and if the Company’s common stock does not qualify for, or is subsequently delisted from, the NASDAQ Capital Market, investors may have difficulty converting their investment into cash efficiently. The price of the Company’s common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock would be adversely affected. - 9 - A Significant Percentage of the Company’s Total Revenue is Subject to Risks Associated with International Sales In the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, international sales accounted for approximately 23% and 25%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenue. The Company anticipates that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of its total revenue. A significant portion of the Company’s total revenue will therefore be subject to risks associated with international sales, including further deterioration of international economic conditions, unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs, currency exchange rates and other barriers, political and economic instability, possible effects of war and acts of terrorism, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors or representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, difficulties in protecting the Company’s intellectual property overseas, seasonality of sales and potentially adverse foreign tax consequences. Past and Future Acquisitions may be Difficult to Integrate, Disrupt the Company’s Business, Dilute Stockholder Value or Divert Management Attention Historically, the Company has acquired certain technology or businesses to supplement and expand its product offerings. In the future, the Company could acquire additional products, technologies or businesses, or enter into joint venture arrangements, for the purpose of complementing or expanding its business and to address the need to develop new products. Acquisitions involve numerous risks including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which the Company has no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Achieving and maintaining the anticipated benefits of an acquisition will depend in part upon whether the integration of the companies’ business is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner, and there can be no assurance that this will occur. The successful combination of companies in the high technology industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries. There may be Limitations on the Effectiveness of the Company’s Controls The Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and President and the Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that its internal controls will prevent all errors and intentional misrepresentations. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and no assurance can be given that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or intentional conduct may occur and not be detected. The Company may be Adversely Impacted by Rapid Technological Change The markets in which the Company competes have undergone, and can be expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change. The ability of the Company to grow will depend on its ability to successfully update and improve its existing products and market and license new products to meet the changing demands of the marketplace and that can compete successfully with the existing and new products of the Company’s competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully anticipate and satisfy the changing demands of the personal computer software marketplace, that the Company will be able to continue to enhance its product offerings, or that technological changes in hardware platforms or software operating systems, or the introduction of a new product by a competitor, will not render the Company’s products obsolete. - 10 - The Company Faces Significant Competition in the Software Industry The software market is highly competitive and characterized by continual change and improvement in technology. Several of the Company’s existing and potential competitors, including ASG Software Solutions, CA Technologies, BMC Software and others, have substantially greater financial, marketing and technological resources than the Company. No assurance can be given that the Company will have the resources required to compete successfully in the future. The Company’s Success is Dependent on Proprietary Software Technology The Company’s success is dependent upon proprietary software technology. The Company does not own patents on any such technology and relies principally on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect its rights to such proprietary technology. Despite such precautions, there can be no assurance that such steps will be adequate to deter misappropriation of such technology. The Company Relies on Software Licensed from Third Parties A majority of the Company’s products incorporate third-party proprietary technology which is generally licensed to the Company on an exclusive, worldwide basis. Failure by such third-parties to continue to develop technology for the Company and license such technology to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company May Not be Able to Hire and Retain Highly Skilled Employees, Which Could Affect its Ability to Compete Effectively Because its Business is Technology-Based Qualified personnel are in great demand throughout the software industry. The Company’s success depends, in large part, upon its ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly technical personnel and product development and professional services personnel, sales and marketing personnel and other senior personnel. The Company’s failure to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel that are integral to the Company’s product development, professional services and direct sales teams may limit the rate at which the Company can generate sales and develop new products or product enhancements. A change in key management could result in transition and attrition in the affected department. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Evolving Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result in Additional Expenses and Continuing Uncertainty Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations as well as the listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market, have created and are continuing to create uncertainty for public companies. The Company continually evaluates and monitors developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs incurred or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company has invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards. This investment has and may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If the Company’s efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against the Company and it may be harmed. - 11 - The Failure of Indirect Distribution Channels Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Operating Results The Company sells a significant portion of its products through distributors and resellers, none of which are under the direct control of the Company. The loss of major distributors or resellers of the Company’s products, or a significant decline in their sales, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company has taken steps to terminate its arrangement with Ingram Micro, Inc. effective in March 2012. Ingram accounted for 13%, 11% and 17% of the Company's total revenue for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract or retain qualified distributors or resellers or that any such distributors or resellers will be able to effectively sell the Company’s products, including the volume of products previously sold by Ingram Micro, Inc. The Company seeks to select and retain distributors and resellers on the basis of their business credentials and their ability to add value through expertise in specific vertical markets or application programming expertise. In addition, the Company may rely on resellers to provide post-sales service and support, and any deficiencies in such service and support could adversely affect the Company’s business. Failure to Maintain an Adequate Sales Returns Reserve Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Financial Position and Results of Operations Revenue from the Company’s sale of all software products (when separately sold) is generally recognized at the time of shipment. The Company estimates and maintains reserves for potential future product returns from distributors based on its experience and history with the Company’s various distributors and resellers as well as by monitoring inventory levels at such companies. While actual returns have historically been within the range estimated by management, future actual results could differ from the reserve for sales returns recorded, and this difference could have a material effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company’s Subscription Sales Model for its Enterprise Products Could Result in Decreased or Delayed Revenues and Cash Flows The Company sells its enterprise products through the sale of perpetual licenses and through a subscription pricing model. The subscription pricing model allows customers to use the Company’s products at a lower initial cost of software acquisition when compared to the more traditional perpetual license sale. Although the subscription sales model is designed to increase the number of enterprise solutions sold and also reduce dependency on short-term sales by building a recurring revenue stream, it introduces increased risks for the Company primarily associated with the timing of revenue recognition and reduced cash flows. The subscription model delays revenue recognition when compared to the typical perpetual license sale and also, as the Company allows termination of certain subscriptions with 90 days notice, could result in decreased revenue for solutions sold under the model if the Company experiences a high percentage of subscription cancellations following the first 12 months of the subscription. Further, as amounts due from customers are invoiced over the life of the subscription, there are delayed cash flows from subscription sales when compared to perpetual license sales. Catastrophic Events May Adversely Affect Our Business The Company is a highly automated business and relies on its network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and website for development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major storm, earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in the Company’s product development and loss of critical data and could affect its ability to sell and deliver products and services and other critical functions of its business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 