Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our units, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on the Partnership, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Macadamia nut trees are subject to damage or destruction from diseases, pests, floods, droughts, windstorms, hurricanes, volcanic activity and other natural causes. Partnership tree replacements for all orchards from all causes were 0.1% in 2008, 0.4% in 2007, and 0.5% in 2006. Both crop and tree insurance are in place to protect the Partnership against significant and catastrophic losses. Diseases and Pests. Macadamia trees are susceptible to various diseases and pests which can affect the health of the trees and resultant nut production. There are several types of fungal diseases, which can affect flower and nut development. One of these is Phytophthora capsici, which affects the macadamia flowers and developing nuts, and another Botrytis cinerea, causes senescence of the macadamia blossom before pollination is completed. These types of fungal disease are generally controllable with fungicides. Historically, these fungi have infested the reproductive plant parts at orchards located in Keaau and Mauna Kea during periods of persistent inclement weather. 7 Table of Contents Tree losses may occur due to a problem known as “Macadamia Quick Decline” (“MQD”). Research at the University of Hawaii indicates that this affliction is due to Phytophthora acapsici which is associated with high moisture and poor drainage conditions. Both the Keaau and Mauna Kea Orchards are areas with high moisture conditions, and may be more susceptible to the MQD problem. Afflicted trees in these regions are replaced with cultivars that are intolerant to MQD. The Partnership’s Keaau orchards experienced tree replacement of 0.2% in 2008, 1.1% in 2007, and 1.0% in 2006. Macadamia trees and production may also be affected by insects and other pests. The Southern Green Stink Bug disfigures the mature kernel and contributes to a historical loss of nuts of 1.2%. Two natural enemies, a wasp and a fly, effectively keep nut losses at acceptable levels. An insect known as the Koa Seed Worm (“KSW”) causes fully sized nuts to fall that have not completed kernel development. The affect of the KSW contribute to an average loss of nuts of 4.0%. The Tropical Nut Borer Beetle (“TNB”) bores through the mature macadamia shell and feeds on the kernel. Nut damage caused by the TNB resulted in about 1.0% loss in 2008. Damages caused by each insect may fluctuate when unfavorable environmental conditions affect the natural enemy population. Natural enemies are relied upon to manage insects that contribute to nut loss. Without these biocontrol agents, greater losses are possible. Pesticides are available to manage these economic insect pests when treatment costs and nut loss justify its use, and when its use does not disrupt the natural enemy population. Honey bees are placed in the orchards to supplement other insect pollinators during the flower season. In late 2008, the Hawaii Department of Agriculture identified the Varroa mite on feral honey bees near the port of Hilo, Hawaii. This mite is an ectoparasite that attaches to the body of honey bees and weakens it which can result in destroying bee hives and colonies. The apiaries that place hives in the macadamia nut orchards must manage this pest with miticide to maintain healthy bee colonies and avoid the development of pest resistance to the miticide. Rainstorms and Floods. The Partnership’s orchards are located in areas on the island of Hawaii that are susceptible to heavy rainstorms. In November 2000 the Ka’u region was affected by flooding. This flooding resulted in some nut loss and expected 2000 harvesting being deferred to 2001. Since the flood in 2000 heavy rain in the Ka’u region has not produced flooding of any consequence. Windstorms. Some of the Partnership’s orchards are located in areas on the island of Hawaii that are susceptible to windstorms. Twenty-five major windstorms have occurred on the island of Hawaii since 1961, and four of those caused material losses to Partnership orchards. Most of the Partnership’s orchards are surrounded by windbreak trees, which provide limited protection. Younger trees that have not developed extensive root systems are particularly vulnerable to windstorms. Insurance. The Partnership obtains tree insurance each year under a federally subsidized program. The tree insurance for 2009 provides coverage up to a maximum of approximately $12.5 million against catastrophic loss of trees due to wind, fire or volcanic activity. Crop insurance was purchased for the 2008-2009 crop year and provides coverage up to a maximum of approximately $11.7 million against loss of nuts due to wind, fire, volcanic activity, earthquake, adverse weather, wildlife damage and failure of irrigation water supplies. Volcanoes. The orchards are located on the island of Hawaii, where there are two active volcanoes. To date, no lava flows from either volcano have affected or threatened the orchards. 8 Table of Contents Rainfall. The productivity of orchards depends in large part on moisture conditions. Inadequate rainfall can reduce nut yields significantly, while excessive rain without adequate drainage can foster disease and hamper harvesting operations. While rainfall at the orchards located in the Keaau and Mauna Kea areas has generally been adequate, the orchards located in the Ka’u area generally receive less rainfall and, as a result, a portion of the Ka’u orchards is presently irrigated. Irrigation can mitigate the effects of a drought, but it cannot completely protect a macadamia nut crop from the effect of a drought. Recorded rainfall at each of the three locations of the Partnership’s orchards for the past five years is shown below: Year Ka’u Keaau Mauna Kea 2004 54.9” 142.7” 151.5” 2005 34.7” 133.8” 171.8” 2006 70.9” 138.7” 178.3” 2007 37.8” 126.7” 158.3” 2008 44.7” 136.2” 125.4” During 2008 the Ka’u, Keaau and Mauna Kea areas recorded 100%, 101% and 85%, respectively, of the normal average annual rainfall in their area of the island. Water Supply for Irrigation. With the May 2000 acquisition, the Partnership acquired an irrigation well (the “Sisal Well”), which supplies water to the Partnership’s orchards in Ka’u which were purchased in June 1986 and 1989. The Sisal Well is situated on land owned by Mauna Kea Agribusiness Company, Inc. (“MKACI”). On May 1, 2000 the Partnership entered into a license agreement with MKACI, which allows the Partnership necessary access to maintain and operate the Sisal Well, as well as the use of roads to access, maintain and operate the Partnership’s macadamia orchards. Annual rent for the license agreement is One Dollar. The license agreement terminates on the earlier of the termination of the May 1, 2000 lease between Partnership and KACI, or June 30, 2045. Prior to the May 2000 acquisition, the Partnership and KACI were parties to a water agreement to which KACI agreed to supply water to those portions of the June 1986 Orchards and October 1986 Orchards located at Ka’u and which had been irrigated historically. If the amount of water provided by the Sisal Well becomes insufficient to irrigate the above named orchards, the Partnership may consider increasing the capacity of the Sisal Well, drilling an alternative well into the historical source which provides water to the Sisal Well or obtaining water from other sources. On a historical basis, the quantity of water available from the Sisal Well has been generally sufficient to irrigate these orchards in accordance with prudent farming practices. The irrigated portion of the Ka’u II Orchards is expected to need greater quantities of water as the orchards mature. The Partnership anticipates that the amount of water available from the Sisal well will be generally sufficient, assuming average levels of rainfall, to irrigate the irrigated orchards in accordance with prudent farming practices for the next several years. If no irrigation water is available to the Irrigated Orchards, then, based on historical average rainfall levels, diminished yields of macadamia nut production can be expected. Employees. Our farming operations require a large number of workers, many on a seasonal basis. The labor market on the island of Hawaii is very competitive and most of our employees are unionized under contracts which expire in June 2009. In previous years, we have obtained the services of foreign workers, which we have not continued. In the event that we are not able to obtain and retain both permanent and seasonal workers to conduct our farming operations, or in the event that we are not able to maintain satisfactory relationships with our unionized workers, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Key Personnel. Certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel who are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, technical and support personnel. We cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the 9 Table of Contents requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in those positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. Environmental. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate our properties and our farming operations and could make us liable for costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property that we currently own, lease or that we previously owned or leased or upon which we currently or previously conducted farming operations. These laws could impose liabilities without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to use or sell certain real property, use it as collateral or result in fines or clean up costs. Future environmental laws could impact our farming operations or increase our cost of goods. Market and customers. A decline in worldwide macadamia nut prices may adversely affect the price the Partnership may be able to obtain under future nut purchase contracts. There are a limited number of customers available to purchase the Partnership’s nut production. As of March 23, 2009, the Partnership has nut purchase contracts calling for the purchase of approximately 21.0 to 27.0 million field pounds of its production during 2009 (not including the Hamakua contract which is expected to be terminated in June 2009). Accordingly, the Partnership must find buyers for the production in 2009 which exceeds that amount. If the Partnership is not able to obtain nut purchase contracts for our production or our customers are unable to perform under their contracts or if their purchase of product should change from Hawaii-based to foreign sourced kernel, it would have a material adverse impact on our business as there are virtually no replacement customers for the Partnership’s production. If the market for the Partnership’s inventory were to decline the Partnership would have to sell at a price lower than the current market price. If no buyers were available the inventory could become unsalable and have to be discarded. Nut Purchase Agreements. The Partnership had four contracts in 2008. The terms of the contracts varied from two to six years, contained fixed and market determined prices and 30-day payment terms. The Partnership relies upon the financial ability of the buyers of the Partnership’s nuts to abide by the payment terms of the nut purchase agreements. If any or all of the buyers were unable to pay for the macadamia nuts delivered by the Partnership to them it could result in the Partnership’s available cash resources being depleted. If any or all buyers were late in payment the Partnership would stop the delivery of macadamia nuts to the buyer. The Partnership would need to negotiate a nut purchase agreement with another buyer which might not be at the same terms or price. It is also possible that the Partnership might not be able to find a buyer for the nuts. In 2008 Hamakua refused to accept delivery of macadamia nuts from the Partnership as required by the nut purchase agreement. The Partnership and Mauna Loa agreed to an addendum to their nut purchase agreement where Mauna Loa agreed to purchase an additional 9.0 million to 12.0 million field pounds of macadamia nuts during the period July 21, 2008 through June 30, 2009. The Partnership and Mauna Loa agreed to an addendum to their nut purchase agreement where Mauna Loa agreed to purchase an additional 9.0 to 15.0 million field pounds of macadamia nuts during the period July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010. The Partnership and Island Princess terminated their nut purchase agreement on October 31, 2008 by mutual agreement and subject to certain conditions. The Partnership has agreed to terminate the Hamakua contract in June 2009 and does not expect future purchases under it. The Partnership’s ability to renew its credit agreements is highly dependent upon the existence of its nut purchase agreements with Mauna Loa. Accordingly, the cancellation of the nut purchase agreement with Mauna Loa in the future would significantly affect the Partnership’s ability to secure the necessary funds to finance its current working capital needs. Most of the Partnership’s nut purchase agreements are fixed price contracts. Fixed price contracts can be disadvantageous because the Partnership may not be able to pass on unexpected cost increases as they arise. 10 Table of Contents Loan Agreement Restrictions. The Partnership relies on external loan financing, currently being provided by a Credit Agreement with American Ag Credit Capital Markets through a revolving line of credit and a term note. This loan contains various terms and conditions, including financial ratios, covenants and is secured by all of the real personal property of the Partnership and fee property assets. The term loan matures in May 2010 and the revolving line of credit matures on June 30, 2009, although a commitment to extend this line of credit for one year was obtained from the lender on March 25, 2009. See “Description of Business” - “Loan Agreement.” This Credit Agreement prohibits distributions to partners. On multiple occasions during the last several years, the Partnership has failed to comply with various covenants or financial ratios under its loan agreements, but has been able to obtain waivers or modifications of the agreement to avoid a default. If the Partnership is unable to meet the terms and conditions of its lending arrangements or is unable to obtain waivers or modifications of such lending arrangements, it could be in default of its loan agreements and in which event the lenders would be able to accelerate the obligations and realize on the collateral securing the indebtedness. There is no assurance that the Partnership will be able to comply with or obtain waivers of covenants and conditions in the future. Furthermore, Partners will not receive distributions while they are prohibited by the Partnership’s borrowing arrangements. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments. None Available Information. The Partnership files annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the Commission. These filings are available free of charge through the Partnership’s Internet website at www.mlmacadamia.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Partnership electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Commission. The Partnership’s corporate governance guidelines, board committee charters and code of conduct are also available on the website, free of charge. Any unit holder, who so requests may obtain a printed copy of these documents from the Partnership, by contacting the Partnership at 808-969-8057, or in writing at 26-238 Hawaii Belt Road, Hilo, Hawaii 96720. ITEM 