Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 2 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Datawatch Corporation (the “Company” or “Datawatch”), founded in 1985, is a leading vendor in the Enterprise Information Management market space. By providing solutions that build on a Service Oriented Architecture (“SOA”) framework and Monarch report mining technologies, Datawatch allows organizations to access, archive, enhance, analyze and deliver information from wherever it resides inside or outside the enterprise to solve business problems. The ability to maximize an organization’s investment in existing systems, databases, and content management archives allows Datawatch to rapidly implement business intelligence, performance management, report mining, Extract, Transform, Load (“ETL”) and business service management solutions with very high return on investment. Datawatch products are used in more than 20,000 companies, institutions and government agencies worldwide. The Company offers its enterprise products through the sale of perpetual licenses as well as a subscription pricing model that allows customers to begin using the Company’s products at a lower initial cost of software acquisition. Subscription terms typically run 90 days or 24 months and automatically renew unless terminated with 90 days notice. The subscription arrangement includes software, maintenance and unspecified future upgrades including major version upgrades. During fiscal 2006, sales under the subscription model increased by over 36% as general industry knowledge and acceptance of the model grew substantially in the fiscal year. The Company is a Delaware corporation with executive offices located at 271 Mill Road, Quorum Office Park, Chelmsford, MA 01824 and the Company’s telephone number is (978) 441-2200. Periodic reports are made available to the public, free of charge, on the Company’s website, www.datawatch.com and through the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with the SEC. PRODUCTS Monarch - Datawatch is best known for its popular desktop report mining and business intelligence application called Monarch. More than 450,000 copies of Monarch have been sold, with localized versions in English, French, German and Spanish. Monarch transforms structured text files (reports, statements, etc.) into a live database that users can sort, filter, summarize, graph and export to other applications such as Microsoft Corporation’s Excel or Access. Monarch Professional Edition lets users extract and work with data in PDF and HTML files, databases, spreadsheets and Open Data Base Connectivity (“ODBC”) sources as well as reports. The Monarch product line represented approximately 56% of total revenues for the fiscal year 2006. Monarch Data Pump - Monarch Data Pump (“MDP”) provides powerful information delivery and data ETL capabilities in one automated solution, without programming. Combining Datawatch’s Monarch Report Mining/Data Mining engine with the Microsoft.NET framework, MDP delivers a highly scalable and easily administered enterprise solution to acquire, combine, and monitor customized data, and deliver that data in a wide variety of formats, on an automatic, scheduled basis. Monarch|RMS - Monarch|RMS (Report Mining Server) is a web-based report mining and analysis solution that integrates with any existing Computer Output to Laser Disk/Enterprise Record Management (“COLD/ERM”), document or content management archiving solution. Monarch|RMS opens up the corporate data locked in stored, static reports, enabling dynamic business-driven analysis of information in users’ web browsers or favorite productivity tools with no programming. Datawatch|BDS - Datawatch|BDS (Business Document Server) is a high speed, high volume document archive system, storing text as well as images, intelligent data streams and unstructured content, complete with file compression. Datawatch|BDS is capable of enabling thousands of end users to access and retrieve stored documents 3 in a matter of seconds via the network or web. Datawatch|BDS also offers advanced business benefits, including optional automatic email notification to end users of newly archived documents (“e-Notify”), with rules-based options for email content, as well as optional web-enabled transformation of business documents into customized data for easy analysis. Datawatch|ES – Datawatch|ES is a web-enabled business information portal, providing complete report management, business intelligence and content management, and the ability to analyze data within reports, all using just a web browser. Datawatch|ES allows organizations to quickly and easily deliver business intelligence and decision support, derived from existing reporting systems and other database sources, with no new programming or report writing. Datawatch|ES automatically archives report data and binary documents in an enterprise report and document warehouse and provides users a unified point of entry to view, analyze and share information over the Internet. Datawatch|MailManager – Datawatch|MailManager is a highly scalable e-mail management solution that provides complete lifecycle, compliance, and storage management for Microsoft Exchange environments. It is a compliance solution built specifically for the corporate enterprise, able to support even the most stringent regulatory requirements. Datawatch|MailManager automates the e-mail management lifecycle. It captures internal, outgoing and incoming email correspondence, indexing it and managing its retention based on an organization’s internal policies. In the case of audit or legal discovery, related e-mail can be instantly and accurately retrieved for rapid response. Visual|Insight – Visual|Insight is a performance management solution that provides web based scorecarding, knowledge management and Key Performance Indicator (KPI) reporting. Built on the Datawatch|Researcher .NET platform, Visual|Insight not only allows for performance management, but can actually facilitate performance improvement. Highly customizable, Visual|Insight can access data from any and all organizational databases, as well as having the ability to take advantage of existing trusted data sources such as reports, for ease and speed of installation and a quick return on investment. Datawatch|Researcher – Datawatch|Researcher is the tool kit for building performance management and workflow capabilities into Visual|Insight, Datawatch|ES and Visual|QSM. Datawatch|Researcher is a .NET based content and data aggregation platform that searches inter-related data, documents, and communications scattered over multiple and disparate repositories including databases, document and content management systems, email repositories, the Internet and more. It then merges and analyzes the results for uses in balanced scorecards, KPI reporting, problem management and business process management. It also can turn the results into comprehensive actionable case records for easier compliance, auditing, accounting, and billing processes. Visual|QSM - Visual|QSM is a fully internet-enabled IT support solution that can scale from a basic help desk system to a full business management solution that incorporates workflow and network management capabilities and provides web access to multiple databases while enabling customers to interact via a standard browser. Visual|QSM, a market leader in Europe, also provides advanced service level management capabilities, integrated change management features, business process automation tools and one of the industry’s easiest to learn and use interfaces. The Visual|QSM product line represented approximately 21% of total revenues for fiscal year 2006. Visual|Help Desk - Visual|Help Desk (“Visual|HD”), leverages the IBM Lotus Domino platform to provide a 100% web-based help desk and call center solution. Cost effective and easy to deploy, Visual|HD is an enterprise-wide support solution that supports an organization’s existing IT infrastructure. Visual|HD has the additional ability to utilize XML-based Web Services as well as the ability to integrate directly with IBM enterprise applications. VorteXML - VorteXML software quickly and easily converts any structured text output generated from any system into valid XML for web services and more using any DTD or XDR schema without programming. VorteXML dramatically speeds up and reduces the cost of enabling current applications for web services, implementing enterprise XML solutions, putting legacy output on the web (including bill presentment), and more. The VorteXML solution suite is comprised of two powerful software products that work together: VorteXML 4 Designer, a desktop tool that provides users a visual interface that allows users to extract, transform and map data from existing text documents into XML without programming; and VorteXML Server, a scalable, high-volume server that automates the extraction and conversion of text documents into XML. The Company also receives license royalties for its iMergence iStore product primarily from a provider of services to the financial services industry. iMergence iStore is a report management solution which manages computer-generated reports, mines the data contained in them, and allows users to interactively merge and transform them into new reports. PRICING The Company’s desktop products are sold under single and multi-user licenses. A single user license for Monarch Standard Edition is priced at $659. Multi-user licenses for Monarch Standard Edition are typically priced from $340 to $550 per user, depending upon the number of users. A single user license for Monarch Professional Edition is priced at $799. Multi-user licenses for Monarch Professional Edition are typically priced from $450 to $685 per user, depending upon the number of users. Monarch Data Pump is typically priced at $7,999 per server. A single user license for VorteXML Designer is priced at $499 and VorteXML Server is typically priced at $7,999 per server. The Company’s enterprise report management and business service center products are primarily sold under server-based licenses with named-user and concurrent-user client licenses. An entry-level Monarch|RMS system is priced at $15,000, with the majority of such sales priced in the $25,000 to $50,000 range depending on the number of software modules and user licenses sold. Entry-level Datawatch|BDS systems are priced at approximately $55,000. The majority of our sales of Datawatch|BDS systems are priced in the range of $100,000 to $250,000. Entry-level Datawatch|ES and Visual|Insight systems are priced at approximately $30,000 and $40,000, respectively. The majority of sales for these products are priced in the range of $60,000 to $200,000. Entry-level Datawatch|MailManager systems are priced at approximately $12,000 with the majority of such sales priced in the range of $18,000 to $250,000. An entry-level Visual|QSM system is priced at approximately $20,000 with the majority of such sales priced in the range of $35,000 to $200,000. An entry-level Visual|HD system sells for less than $10,000, with the majority of such sales priced in the $10,000 to $60,000 range. Maintenance agreements, training and implementation services are sold separately. The Company also sells its Enterprise Software using a subscription model. Subscription terms typically range from 90 days to 24 months and automatically renew unless terminated with 90 days notice. The subscription arrangement includes software, maintenance and unspecified future upgrades including major version upgrades. The subscription pricing does not include professional services. Such professional services are invoiced separately. Prices for Datawatch|BDS subscriptions typically range from approximately $4,500 to $11,500 per month. Prices for Datawatch|ES and Visual|Insight subscriptions typically range from approximately $2,000 to $9,000 per month. Prices for Datawatch|MailManager subscriptions typically range from approximately $850 to $11,500 per month. Visual|QSM subscriptions typically range from approximately $1,500 to $9,000 per month, and Visual|HD subscriptions typically range from $500 to $2,500 per month. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Datawatch markets its products through a variety of channels in order to gain broad market exposure and to satisfy the needs of its customers. Datawatch believes that some customers prefer to purchase products through service-oriented resellers, while others buy on the basis of price, purchase convenience, and/or immediate delivery. The Company is engaged in active direct sales of its products to end-users, including repeat and add-on sales to existing customers and sales to new customers. Datawatch utilizes direct mail, the Internet, telemarketing and direct personal selling to generate its sales. Datawatch uses a variety of marketing programs to create demand for its products. These programs include 5 advertising, cooperative advertising with reseller partners, direct mail, exhibitor participation in industry shows, executive participation in press briefings, Internet-based marketing and on-going communication with the trade press. The Company offers certain of its resellers the ability to return obsolete versions of its products and slow-moving products for credit. Based on its historical experience relative to products sold to these distributors, the Company believes that its exposure to such returns is minimal. It has provided a provision for such estimated returns in the financial statements. Datawatch warrants the physical disk media and printed documentation for its products to be free of defects in material and workmanship for a period of 30 to 90 days from the date of purchase depending on the product. Datawatch also offers a 30 day or 60 day money-back guarantee on certain of its products sold directly to end-users. Under the guarantee, customers may return purchased products within the 30 day or 60 day period for a full refund if they are not completely satisfied. To date, the Company has not experienced any significant product returns under its money-back guarantee. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, one distributor, Ingram Micro Inc., represented approximately 15%, 19% and 20%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenue. During fiscal 2006, another distributor, Tech Data, represented approximately 13% of the Company’s total revenue. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s total revenue in fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004. Datawatch’s revenues from outside of the U.S. are primarily the result of sales through the direct sales force of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Datawatch International Limited and its subsidiaries (“Datawatch International”) and through international resellers. Such international sales (which are primarily in the UK), not including export sales from domestic operations, represented approximately 32%, 36% and 39% of the Company’s total revenue for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. See Note 10 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company believes that timely development of new products and enhancements to its existing products is essential to maintain strong positions in its markets. Datawatch intends to continue to invest significant amounts in research and product development to ensure that its products meet the current and future demands of its markets as well as to take advantage of evolving technology trends. Datawatch’s product development efforts are conducted through in-house software development engineers and by external developers. External developers are compensated either through royalty or commission payments based on product sales levels achieved or under contracts based on services provided. Datawatch has established long-term relationships with several development engineering firms, providing flexibility, stability and reliability in its development process. Datawatch’s product managers work closely with developers, whether independent or in-house, to define product specifications. The initial concept for a product originates from this cooperative effort. The developer is generally responsible for coding the development project. Datawatch’s product managers maintain close technical control over the products, giving the Company the freedom to designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. The product managers and their staff work in parallel with the developers to produce printed documentation, on-line help files, tutorials and installation software. In some cases, Datawatch may choose to subcontract a portion of this work on a project basis to third-party suppliers under contracts. Datawatch personnel also perform extensive quality assurance testing for all products and coordinate external beta test programs. An existing agreement between Datawatch and Math Strategies grants the Company exclusive worldwide rights to use and distribute certain intellectual property owned by Math Strategies and incorporated by the Company in its Monarch, Monarch Data Pump, VorteXML and certain other products. In February 2006, the Company extended its exclusive worldwide distribution rights with Math Strategies for the technology used in the development of Monarch products until April 30, 2015. In addition, an amendment to the purchase option contract 6 with Math Strategies, originally signed on April 29, 2004, gives Datawatch the option to purchase the intellectual property rights to the software source code and any existing patents at any time before April 30, 2015. This option, if exercised, would provide the Company with increased flexibility to utilize the purchased technology in the future. Other Datawatch products have been developed through in-house software development or by independent software engineers hired under contract. Datawatch maintains source code and full product control for these products, which include Datawatch|BDS, Datawatch|ES, Visual|QSM, and Visual|HD products. Datawatch|ES, Visual|QSM, and Visual|HD are trademarks of Datawatch Corporation. Visual|Help Desk is a registered trademark of Auxilor, Inc. (“Auxilor”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Datawatch Corporation. During fiscal 2004, the Company acquired Mergence Technologies Corporation which has a branch software development and testing office in the Philippines. Mergence, which was renamed Datawatch Technologies Corporation (“DTC”) coincident with the acquisition, developed the iMergence iStore and Datawatch|Researcher products at its facilities in the United States and the Philippines prior to the acquisition. The Company has integrated the Philippines development branch as an alternative development facility for its other enterprise products. iMergence is a registered trademark of Datawatch Technologies Corporation. Research and development expense was $2,093,707, $2,031,280 and $1,451,533 for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. BACKLOG The Company’s software products are generally shipped within three business days of receipt of an order. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that backlog for its products is a meaningful indicator of future business. The Company does maintain a backlog of services related to its Datawatch|BDS, Datawatch|ES, Visual|QSM, and Visual|HD business. While this services backlog will provide future revenue to the Company, the Company believes that it is not a meaningful indicator of future business. COMPETITION The software industry is highly competitive and is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. Datawatch competes with a number of companies including Hyperion, Actuate Corporation, Mobius Management Systems, Inc. and others that have substantially greater financial, marketing and technological resources than the Company. Competition in the industry is likely to intensify as current competitors expand their product lines and as new competitors enter the market. PRODUCT PROTECTION In addition to having certain patents pending on its software technologies, Datawatch relies on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements, and technical measures to protect its rights in its products. Despite these precautions, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of Datawatch’s products or to obtain and use information that Datawatch regards as proprietary. Datawatch believes that, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the software industry, the legal protections for its products are less significant than the knowledge, ability and experience of its employees and developers, the frequency of product enhancements and the timeliness and quality of its support services. Datawatch believes that none of its products, trademarks, patents, and other proprietary rights infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, but there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against it or its developers in the future. PRODUCTION Production of Datawatch’s products involves the duplication of compact disks and the printing of user manuals, packaging and other related materials. High volume compact disk duplication is performed by 7 non-affiliated subcontractors, while low volume compact disk duplication is performed in-house. Printing work is also performed by non-affiliated subcontractors. To date, Datawatch has not experienced any material difficulties or delays in production of its software and related documentation and believes that, if necessary, alternative production sources could be secured at a commercially reasonable cost. EMPLOYEES As of December 27, 2006, Datawatch had 131 full-time and 5 contract, temporary or part-time employees, including 38 engaged in marketing, sales, and customer service; 41 engaged in product consulting, training and technical support; 38 engaged in product management, development and quality assurance; 17 providing general, administrative, accounting, and IT functions; and 2 engaged in software production and warehousing. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company does not provide forecasts of its future financial performance. However, from time to time, information provided by the Company or statements made by its employees may contain “forward looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts (including, but not limited to statements contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to liquidity and capital resources) may constitute forward looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward looking-statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The Company disclaims any obligation, except as specifically required by law and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in the Company’s expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and may in the future vary significantly from those stated in any forward looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, without limitation, the risks, uncertainties and other information discussed below and within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the accuracy of the Company’s internal estimates of revenue and operating expense levels. The following discussion of the Company’s risk factors should be read in conjunction with the financial statements contained herein and related notes thereto. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Subscription Sales Model Risk During fiscal 2004, the Company introduced a subscription sales model for the sale of its enterprise products. This pricing model allows customers to begin using the Company’s products at a lower initial cost of software acquisition when compared to the more traditional perpetual license sale. While the subscription sales model is designed to increase the number of enterprise solutions sold and also reduce dependency on short-term sales by building a recurring revenue stream, it introduces increased risks for the Company primarily associated with the timing of revenue recognition and reduced cash flows. The subscription model delays revenue recognition when compared to the typical perpetual license sale and also, as the Company allows termination of certain subscriptions with 90 days notice, could result in decreased revenue for solutions sold under the model if the Company experiences a high percentage of subscription cancellations during the first two years of the subscription. Further, as amounts due from customers are invoiced over the life of the subscription, there are delayed cash flows from subscription sales when compared to perpetual license sales. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results The Company’s future operating results could vary substantially from quarter-to-quarter because of uncertainties and/or risks associated with such things as technological change, competition, and delays in the introduction of products or product enhancements and general market trends. Historically, the Company has operated with little backlog of orders because its software products are generally shipped as orders are received. 8 As a result, net sales in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Further, the Company’s introduction of the subscription sales model could result in decreased revenues over the short term. Because the Company’s staffing and operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of the Company’s costs are fixed in the short-term, small variations in the timing of revenues can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter-to-quarter. Because of these factors, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience such variations in operating results in the future or that such variations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Weakening of World Wide Economic Conditions and the Computer Software Market May Result in Lower Revenue Growth Rates or Decreased Revenues The revenue growth and profitability of the Company’s business depends on the overall demand for computer software and services, particularly in the markets in which it competes. Because the Company’s sales are primarily to major corporate customers, its business also depends on general economic and business conditions. A softening of demand for computer software and services caused by a weakening of the economy in the United States or abroad, may result in lower revenue growth rates, decreased revenues and reduced profitability. In addition, terrorist attacks against the United States, and the United States military response to these attacks have added to economic and political uncertainty which may adversely affect worldwide demand for computer software and services and result in significant fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies. In a weakened economy, the Company cannot be assured that it will be able to effectively promote future growth in its software and services revenues or maintain profitability. Dependence on Principal Products In the year ended September 30, 2006, Monarch, Visual|QSM and Visual|HD, Datawatch|ES and Datawatch|BDS accounted for approximately 58%, 22%, 15% and 5%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenue. The Company is wholly dependent on the Monarch, Datawatch|ES, Visual|QSM, Visual|HD, Datawatch|Researcher and Datawatch|BDS products, the latter of which was introduced during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 through the Company’s acquisition of certain assets of the Integrated Document Archiving and Retrieval Systems (“IDARS”) business of ClearStory Systems, Inc. As a result, any factor adversely affecting sales of any of these products could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of its new and enhanced versions of these products and development of new versions of these and other products and subsequent acceptance of such new and enhanced products. In addition, competitive pressures or other factors may result in significant price erosion that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. International Sales In the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, international sales, including export sales from domestic operations, accounted for approximately 32%, 38% and 41%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenue. The Company anticipates that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of its total revenue. A significant portion of the Company’s total revenue will therefore be subject to risks associated with international sales, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs, exchange rates and other barriers, political and economic instability, possible effects of war and acts of terrorism, difficulties in account receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors or representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, difficulties in protecting the Company’s intellectual property overseas, seasonality of sales and potentially adverse tax consequences. Acquisition Strategy As evidenced by the May 2006 acquisition of the IDARS business from ClearStory Systems, Inc., the August 2004 acquisition of Mergence Technologies Corporation and the October 2002 acquisition of Auxilor Inc., the Company continues to address the need to develop new products, in part, through the acquisition of other 9 companies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which the Company has no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Achieving and maintaining the anticipated benefits of an acquisition will depend in part upon whether the integration of the companies’ business is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner, and there can be no assurance that this will occur. The successful combination of companies in the high technology industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries. Compliance with Financial Covenants and other Provisions of the Credit Agreement The Company currently has a secured credit agreement with a bank (the “Bank”), which includes certain cash financial covenants that the Company must meet on a monthly basis. At June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, the Company did not meet these covenants, but sought and received waivers from the Bank with respect to these covenants and modifications to the credit agreement intended to make future defaults less likely. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will not violate these financial covenants in the future or that, if it does, the Bank will grant any further waivers or modifications. This may result in the Company not being able to borrow any additional amounts under the credit agreement, the Company may have to pay back the entire principal amount outstanding plus accrued interest, or, or if the Company were unable to repay the outstanding amount, the Bank may seek to sell the Company’s assets, any of which may have a material impact on the Company. Dependence on New Introductions; New Product Delays Growth in the Company’s business depends in substantial part on the continuing introduction of new products. The length of product life cycles depends in part on end-user demand for new or additional functionality in the Company’s products. If the Company fails to accurately anticipate the demand for, or encounters any significant delays in developing or introducing, new products or additional functionality on its products, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Product life cycles can also be affected by the introduction by suppliers of operating systems of comparable functionality within their products. The failure of the Company to anticipate the introduction of additional functionality in products developed by such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company’s competitors may introduce products with more features and lower prices than the Company’s products. Such increase in competition could adversely affect the life cycles of the Company’s products, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Software products may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by the Company and by current and potential end-users, errors will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. Any failure by the Company to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Rapid Technological Change The markets in which the Company competes have undergone, and can be expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change. The ability of the Company to grow will depend on its ability to successfully update and improve its existing products and market and license new products to meet the changing demands of the marketplace and that can compete successfully with the existing and new products of the Company’s competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully anticipate and satisfy the changing demands of the personal computer software marketplace, that the Company will be able to continue to enhance its product offerings, or that technological changes in hardware platforms or software operating systems, or the introduction of a new product by a competitor, will not render the Company’s products obsolete. 10 Competition in the PC Software Industry The software market for personal computers is highly competitive and characterized by continual change and improvement in technology. Several of the Company’s existing and potential competitors, including BMC Software, Actuate Corporation, Hyperion, Mobius Management Systems, Inc., and others, have substantially greater financial, marketing and technological resources than the Company. No assurance can be given that the Company will have the resources required to compete successfully in the future. Dependence on Proprietary Software Technology The Company’s success is dependent upon proprietary software technology. Although the Company does not own all patents on any such technology, it does hold exclusive licenses to such technology and relies principally on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect its rights to such proprietary technology. Despite such precautions, there can be no assurance that such steps will be adequate to deter misappropriation of such technology. Reliance on Software License Agreements Substantially all of the Company’s products incorporate third-party proprietary technology which is generally licensed to the Company on an exclusive, worldwide basis. Failure by such third-parties to continue to develop technology for the Company and license such technology to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Dependence on the Ability to Hire and Retain Skilled Personnel Qualified personnel are in great demand throughout the software industry. The Company’s success depends, in large part, upon its ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly, technical personnel and product development and professional services personnel, sales and marketing personnel and other senior personnel. The Company’s failure to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel that are integral to the Company’s product development, professional services and direct sales teams may limit the rate at which the Company can generate sales and develop new products or product enhancements. A change in key management could result in transition and attrition in the affected department. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Indirect Distribution Channels The Company sells a significant portion of its products through resellers, none of which are under the direct control of the Company. The loss of major resellers of the Company’s products, or a significant decline in their sales, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract or retain additional qualified resellers or that any such resellers will be able to effectively sell the Company’s products. The Company seeks to select and retain resellers on the basis of their business credentials and their ability to add value through expertise in specific vertical markets or application programming expertise. In addition, the Company relies on resellers to provide post-sales service and support, and any deficiencies in such service and support could adversely affect the Company’s business. Volatility of Stock Price As is frequently the case with the stocks of high technology companies, the market price of the Company’s common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Factors such as quarterly fluctuations in results of operations, increased competition, the introduction of new products by the Company or its competitors, expenses or other difficulties associated with assimilating companies acquired by the Company, changes in the mix of sales channels, the timing of significant customer orders, and macroeconomic conditions generally, may have a significant impact on the market price of the stock of the Company. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings from the levels anticipated by securities analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock in any given period. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market price for many high technology companies and which, on occasion, have appeared to be unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. 11 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 