Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We do not provide forecasts of our future financial performance. However, from time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees may contain “forward looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts (including, but not limited to statements contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to liquidity and capital resources) may constitute forward looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation, except as specifically required by law and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and may in the future vary significantly from those stated in any forward looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, without limitation, the risks, uncertainties and other information discussed below and within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the accuracy of our internal estimates of revenue and operating expense levels. The following discussion of our risk factors should be read in conjunction with the financial statements contained herein and related notes thereto. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. A Weak Global Economy and Softening in the Computer Software Market May Result in Decreased Revenues or Lower Revenue Growth Rates The growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for computer software and services, particularly in the financial services markets and other markets in which we compete. Tighter credit and negative financial news resulting from the recent worldwide recession and, in the U.S., from the Congressional deadlock over the federal debt ceiling and government spending restrictions resulting from the federal budget sequester, may continue to have an adverse effect on capital spending by corporations, including the demand for computer software. Because our sales are primarily to major corporate customers, poor economic conditions may soften the demand for computer software and services which may result in decreased revenues, lower revenue growth rates and reduced profitability. In addition, a weak global economy may result in longer sales cycles, reduced, deferred or cancelled orders, or greater than anticipated uncollectible accounts receivables. In a weakened economy, we cannot be assured that we will be able to effectively promote future growth in our software and services revenues or operate profitability. 10 Our Dependence on our Principal Products and our Failure to Develop Enhanced or New Products May Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations In the year ended September 30, 2013, our Visual Data Discovery products accounted for approximately 97% of our total revenue. We are primarily dependent on our Visual Data Discovery products. As a result, any factor adversely affecting sales of any of these products could have a material adverse effect on us. Our future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of new and enhanced versions of these products and development of new versions of these and other products and subsequent customer acceptance of such new and enhanced products. In particular, we are dependent upon our ability to successfully market and sell the visual data discovery products that we acquired in connection with our purchase of Panopticon in August 2013. In addition, competitive pressures or other factors may result in significant price erosion that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations Our future operating results could vary substantially from quarter-to-quarter because of uncertainties and/or risks associated with such matters as current economic conditions, technological change, competition, delays in the introduction of new products or product enhancements, and market acceptance of those new products and product enhancements, and general market trends. In addition, as we focus on increasing enterprise sales to large customers, the timing of significant orders may cause fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Large enterprise sales arrangements often involve multiple elements and may require more complex accounting than the sales transactions we have entered into in the past, which also makes projecting future operating results more difficult. Historically, we have operated with minimal backlog of orders because our software products are generally shipped as orders are received. As a result, net sales in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Further, any increases in sales under our subscription sales model or cloud offering could result in decreased revenues over the short term. Because our staffing and operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of our costs are fixed in the short-term, small variations in the timing of revenues can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter-to-quarter. In addition, at September 30, 2013, we had approximately $16,020,000 of unrecognized compensation costs related to RSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.33 years, which costs will have a negative effect on our profitability on a GAAP reporting basis. Because of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We can give no assurance that we will not experience such variations in operating results in the future or that such variations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Sales Cycle for our Enterprise Products is Long and Unpredictable, Particularly with Respect to Large Customers, and our Sales Efforts Require Considerable Time and Expense Our operating results may fluctuate, in part, because of the resource intensive nature of our sales efforts, the length and variability of the sales cycle of our enterprise software licensing offerings and the short-term difficulty in adjusting our operating expenses. Our operating results depend in part on sales to large customers and conversions of users that have downloaded the desktop version of our Datawatch Modeler software into enterprise customers. The length of our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to delivery of and payment for the software license, varies substantially from customer to customer. It is difficult to predict exactly when, or even if, we will make a sale with a potential customer or if a user that has licensed desktop versions of our Datawatch Modeler software will upgrade to a larger server license. As a result, large individual sales may, in some cases, occur in quarters subsequent to those we anticipate, or not at all. The loss or delay of one or more large transactions in a quarter could impact our operating results for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenue from that transaction is delayed. As a result of these factors, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenues accurately in any quarter. Because a substantial portion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, our operating results will suffer if revenues fall below our expectations in a particular quarter, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 11 The Market for our Data Visualization Products is Emerging and May Not Grow Because the market for our visual data discovery products is still emerging, it is difficult to predict customer adoption and renewal rates, customer demand for our enterprise software licenses, the size and growth rate of this market, the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. Any expansion in our market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with such software licenses. If the market for our enterprise software licenses does not achieve widespread adoption or there is a reduction in demand for software in this market caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders, early terminations, reduced renewal rates or decreased revenues, any of which would adversely affect our business operations and financial results. Dependence on New Product Introductions and New Product Delays or Defects Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business The market for visual data discovery products is evolving rapidly. Growth in our business depends in substantial part on the continuing introduction of new products, such as the products we acquired when we purchased Panopticon, to address the emerging needs of this market. The length of product life cycles depends in part on end-user demand for new or additional functionality in our products and our ability to update our products to meet such demands. If we fail to accurately anticipate the demand for, or encounter any significant delays in developing or introducing, new products or additional functionality in our products, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Our product life cycles can also be affected if suppliers of software systems with which we interact introduce new or changed functionality within their products. Our failure to anticipate the introduction of additional functionality in products developed by such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our competitors may introduce products with more features and lower prices than our products. Such increase in competition could adversely affect the life cycles of our products, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. Software products, whether developed internally or licensed from third parties, may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by us and by current and potential end-users, errors will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Market Price of our Stock Has Been and May Continue to Be Volatile As has recently been the case with the stocks of high technology companies, the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. In addition, insiders presently hold a significant percentage of our stock, and our shares are thinly traded in the public market. We issued 1,866,716 shares of our common stock in connection with the closing of our acquisition of Panopticon, and approximately 60% of those shares remain subject to lock-up restrictions until February 28, 2014 unless we waive the restrictions before then, with approximately 40% of such shares having been released from the lock-up restrictions on December 12, 2013. We may issue up to an additional 216,994 shares or our common stock in connection with the Panopticon acquisition in November 2014 that were held back at closing for a period of 15 months to secure indemnification obligations of the Panopticon sellers under the share purchase agreement. The sale of a substantial number of our shares by the former stockholders of Panopticon or our other stockholders within a short period of time following the expiration or waiver of the six-month restricted transfer period could cause our stock price to decline, making it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our common stock or to acquire other businesses using our common stock as consideration. In addition, factors such as quarterly fluctuations in results of operations, increased competition, the introduction of new products by us or our competitors, expenses or other difficulties associated with assimilating companies acquired by us, changes in the mix of sales channels, the timing of significant customer orders, and macroeconomic conditions generally, may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. Even though we do not presently provide forecasts of our future financial performance, any shortfall in revenue or earnings from the levels anticipated by securities analysts or investors could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the market price of our common stock in any given period. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market price for many high technology companies and which, on occasion, have appeared to be unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Finally, to maintain our stock listing with NASDAQ, we must be in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. If we are not able to maintain compliance with these rules, and if our common stock does not qualify for, or is subsequently delisted from, the NASDAQ Capital Market, investors may have difficulty converting their investment into cash efficiently. The price of our common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock would be adversely affected. 12 A Significant Percentage of our Total Revenue is Subject to Risks Associated with International Sales In the years ended September 30, 2013, 2012 and 2011, international sales accounted for approximately 13%, 15% and 23%, respectively, of our total revenue. We have recently expanded our presence in Europe and in Asia-Pacific, including the opening of an office in Singapore, and we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant, and perhaps increasing, percentage of our total revenue. A significant portion of our total revenue will therefore be subject to risks associated with international sales, including deterioration of international economic conditions, unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs, currency exchange rates and other barriers, political and economic instability, possible effects of war and acts of terrorism, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors or representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas, seasonality of sales and potentially adverse foreign tax consequences. Our Recent Acquisition of Panopticon, or any Future Acquisitions, may be Difficult to Integrate, Disrupt our Business, Dilute Stockholder Value or Divert Management Attention Integrating the operations of Panopticon successfully or otherwise realizing the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Panopticon, including additional revenue opportunities, involves a number of challenges. The failure to meet these integration challenges could seriously harm our results of operations, and the market price of our common stock may decline as a result. Realizing the benefits of the acquisition will depend in part on the integration of technology, operations, personnel and sales activity of the two companies. These integration activities are complex and time-consuming, and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs, including: ·challenges in combining product offerings, including integration of the underlying technology, and sales and marketing activities; ·our inability to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated in the transaction, which would prevent us from achieving the positive earnings gains expected as a result of the transaction; ·diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters; ·difficulties in consolidating and rationalizing information technology platforms and administrative infrastructures; ·complexities in managing a larger and more geographically dispersed company than before the completion of transaction; ·difficulties in the assimilation of Panopticon personnel and the integration of two business cultures; ·challenges in demonstrating to our customers and to customers of Panopticon that the transaction will not result in adverse changes in product and technology offerings, customer service standards or business focus; and ·possible cash flow interruption or loss of revenue as a result of change of ownership transitional matters. 13 We may not successfully integrate the operations of Panopticon in a timely manner, and we may not realize the anticipated net reductions in costs and expenses and other benefits and synergies of the acquisition of Panopticon to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. In addition to the integration risks discussed above, our ability to realize the benefits and synergies of the acquisition of Panopticon could be adversely impacted by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations. As a privately-held, non-U.S. company, Panopticon has not had to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for internal control and other procedures. Bringing Panopticon’s systems into compliance with those requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional expense. In addition, the integration process may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business after completion of the transaction. If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. In the future, we could acquire additional products, technologies or businesses, or enter into joint venture arrangements, for the purpose of complementing or expanding our business and to address the need to develop new products. Any such acquisitions are likely to involve similar risks to those relating to our acquisition of Panopticon. There may be Limitations on the Effectiveness of our Controls Our management does not expect that our internal controls will prevent all errors. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, if any, within our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and no assurance can be given that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or intentional conduct may occur and not be detected. We Face Significant Competition in the Software Industry Our acquisition of Panopticon, and the integration of its visual data discovery capabilities with our existing product line, brings us into closer competition with other companies in the Big Data and business analytics market. This market is highly competitive and includes companies such as Tableau Software, TIBCO Spotfire (a subsidiary of TIBCO Software Inc.) and Qlik Technologies, Inc, as well as larger technology companies such as IBM, SAP, MicroStrategy, SAS and Oracle. Many of the competitors in this market have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do. No assurance can be given that the combined business will have the resources required to compete successfully in the future. In addition, many of these competitors have strong relationships with current and potential customers and extensive knowledge of the business analytics industry. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. If we are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, the business, results of operations and financial condition of the combined business would be harmed. Our Success is Dependent on Proprietary Software Technology Our success is dependent upon proprietary software technology. We do not own patents on any such technology and we rely principally on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our rights to such proprietary technology. Despite such precautions, there can be no assurance that such steps will be adequate to deter misappropriation of such technology. 14 We May Not be Able to Hire and Retain Highly Skilled Employees, Which Could Affect our Ability to Compete Effectively Because our Business is Technology-Based Qualified personnel are in great demand throughout the software industry. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly technical personnel and product development and professional services personnel, sales and marketing personnel and other senior personnel. Our failure to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel that are integral to our product development, professional services and sales and marketing teams may limit the rate at which we can generate sales and develop new products or product enhancements. We have hired a number of key executives during the past three years, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and key executives in sales and marketing functions. In addition, a number of key employees have joined us as a result of our acquisition of Panopticon, including Willem de Geer, the managing director of Panopticon. A loss of these personnel or other changes in key management could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Evolving Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result in Additional Expenses and Continuing Uncertainty Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations as well as the listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market, have created and are continuing to create uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs incurred or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we have invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards. This investment has and may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. The Failure of Indirect Distribution Channels Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Operating Results We sell a significant portion of our products through distributors, value-added resellers, OEMs and other business partners, none of which are under our direct control. The loss of major distributors or resellers of our products, or a significant decline in their sales, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We have consolidated our use of indirect distribution channels with a single distributor, Lifeboat Distribution, which accounted for approximately 20%, 17% and 15% of our total revenue for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively, Ingram Micro, Inc. accounted for less than 10% of our total revenue. In 2011, Ingram Micro, Inc. accounted for approximately 13%, respectively, of our total revenue. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified distributors or resellers or that Lifeboat Distribution or any other distributors or resellers will be able to effectively sell our products. We seek to select and retain distributors and resellers on the basis of their business credentials and their ability to add value through expertise in specific vertical markets or application programming expertise. In addition, we may rely on resellers to provide post-sales service and support, and any deficiencies in such service and support could adversely affect our business. 15 Failure to Maintain an Adequate Sales Returns Reserve Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Financial Position and Results of Operations Revenue from the sale of all our software products (when separately sold) is generally recognized at the time of shipment. We estimate and maintain reserves for potential future product returns from distributors based on our experience and history with our various distributors and resellers as well as by monitoring inventory levels at such companies. While actual returns have historically been within the range estimated by management, future actual results could differ from the reserve for sales returns recorded, and this difference could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our Subscription Sales Model for our Enterprise Products Could Result in Decreased or Delayed Revenues and Cash Flows We sell our enterprise products through the sale of perpetual licenses and through a subscription pricing model. The subscription pricing model allows customers to use our products at a lower initial cost of software acquisition when compared to the more traditional perpetual license sale. Although the subscription sales model is designed to increase the number of enterprise solutions sold and also reduce dependency on short-term sales by building a recurring revenue stream, it introduces increased risks for us primarily associated with the timing of revenue recognition and reduced cash flows. The subscription model delays revenue recognition when compared to the typical perpetual license sale and also, as we allow termination of certain subscriptions with 90 days notice, it could result in decreased revenue for solutions sold under the model if we experience a high percentage of subscription cancellations following the first 12 months of the subscription. Further, as amounts due from customers are invoiced over the life of the subscription, there are delayed cash flows from subscription sales when compared to perpetual license sales. If our Security Measures are Breached or Other Unauthorized Access to Customer Data is Otherwise Obtained, our Software May be Perceived as not being Secure, Customers May Reduce the Use of or Stop Using our Software, and we May Incur Significant Liabilities Our software involves the storage and transmission of customer data, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. While we have taken steps to protect the confidential information that we have access to, including confidential information we may obtain through our customer support services or customer usage of our products, we do not have the ability to monitor or review the content that our customers store, and therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of that content. Therefore, if customers use our software for the transmission or storage of personally identifiable information and our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers and increase engagement by existing customers, cause existing customers to elect to not renew their subscriptions, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. We May Require Additional Capital to Grow our Business, and Our Financing Arrangements Expose us to Interest Rate and Default Risk Our business may require additional capital to operate and expand. We have historically relied upon cash generated from operations and bank credit lines to satisfy our capital needs and finance growth. If we determine in the future to make significant investments in our business, including by acquiring assets or businesses from third parties, we may attempt to raise additional funds by securing additional debt financing or selling equity securities in either the public or the private markets. As the financial markets change and new regulations come into effect, the cost of acquiring financing and the methods of financing may change. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our security holders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the value of shares of our common stock could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios or restrict our ability to make acquisitions. Our inability to do any of the foregoing could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital, or capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms to fund our needs. Our current credit facilities contain various financial and other covenants that may limit our ability to borrow or limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities or conditions and may also expose us to a risk of default if we fail to comply with such covenants. These financing instruments involve variable rate debt, thus exposing us to risk of fluctuations in interest rates. Such fluctuations in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our business. 16 Catastrophic Events May Adversely Affect Our Business Our company is a highly automated business which relies on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and website for development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major storm, earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and services and other critical functions of our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 