ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to significant risks. We urge you to consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K and our other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. ROYAL HAWAIIAN ORCHARDS® products were launched in November 2012 and have a limited retail distribution history. Our future ability to grow our revenues depends upon continued sell-in and sell-through sales of these new products. Prior to November 2012, we had never pursued the sale of macadamia nut products to customers or the sale of nuts in kernel form to others for incorporation into their products. Any adverse developments with respect to the sale of ROYAL HAWAIIAN ORCHARDS® macadamia products could significantly reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability and future growth. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to commercialize our macadamia products or that our products will be accepted in retail markets. Specifically, the following factors, among others, could affect continued market acceptance, revenues and profitability of ROYAL HAWAIIAN ORCHARDS® snack products: ● the introduction of competitive products into the healthy snack market; ● the level and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; ● any unfavorable publicity regarding nut products or similar products; ● litigation or threats of litigation with respect to these products; ● the price of the product relative to other competing products; ● price increases resulting from rising commodity costs; ● regulatory developments affecting the manufacture, marketing or use of these products; and ● the inability to gain significant customers. There is no assurance that this effort will be successful or that we will receive a return on our investment. 5 Table Of Contents We have historically depended on a single nut purchaser. From 1986 through 2006 and from 2010 through 2012, we relied upon a single customer, Mauna Loa, to purchase all of the nuts that we produced under various nut purchase agreements, which required us to sell and Mauna Loa to buy all of our production of macadamia nuts at various prices. At December 31, 2012 and 2013, we and Mauna Loa did not extend ML Contract A and ML Contract B, respectively, and we retained part of our 2013 and 2014 crops previously covered by such contracts to support our own branded product development and marketing efforts. We entered into the 2014 Short-Term Agreement to sell 4.0 million pounds of WIS nuts to Mauna Loa from July 14, 2014 to October 31, 2014, representing approximately 46% of the crop that we had planned to retain, for $1.00 per adjusted WIS pound. Although we reduced the volume sold to Mauna Loa, Mauna Loa remains a significant customer, and any disruption of the Mauna Loa relationship could significantly adversely affect us if we are not able to find alternative purchasers of our nut production at comparable prices. We rely on Mauna Loa’s timely performance and payment under the nut purchase agreements. If Mauna Loa were to breach its obligation to pay for the macadamia nuts delivered, we would suffer substantial financial difficulty due to the loss of one of our major sources of revenue and cash flow, and we would need to seek another buyer for some or all of the nuts. Although we believe we could find other buyers for our nuts based on current market conditions, there could be delays or disruption in sales depending upon the available processing capacity and purchasing commitments of various buyers. If Mauna Loa were late in making payments to us, we could stop the delivery of macadamia nuts. However, if the WIS macadamia nuts are not husked and dried within a limited amount of time, they will deteriorate and have no commercial value. Accordingly, any cessation of shipments is only a short-term response. In order to preserve commercial value in our nut production if Mauna Loa were not making payments, we would need to process the nuts ordinarily purchased and processed by Mauna Loa. Although we have a drying facility, we may not have the extra capacity to dry the nuts that were to be purchased by Mauna Loa, and there can be no assurance that other Hawaiian processors could process the extra volume before the nuts deteriorate. We are subject to risks relating to fixed-price and market-price nut purchase agreements. There are three long-term agreements requiring Mauna Loa to purchase the nuts from the IASCO orchards. They expire in 2029, 2078 and 2080 and provide for market-determined prices. For the orchards other than the IASCO orchards, there was one fixed price nut purchase contract with Mauna Loa, ML Contract C, representing approximately 31% of our total production for 2014 that expired December 31, 2014. Although fixed-price contracts provide protection against adverse declines in market prices, fixed-price contracts can be disadvantageous because we may not be able to pass on unexpected cost increases as they arise or may find that the spot price for nuts materially exceeds this fixed price. On the other hand, a market-price mechanism subjects us to the risk of a decline in world macadamia nut prices, which may or may not result in a price that covers our cost of production. We may not be able to find buyers for our nuts that were previously sold to Mauna Loa pursuant to nut purchase agreements that have expired. Our ML Contract A with Mauna Loa expired on December 31, 2012, ML Contract B expired on December 31, 2013 and ML Contract C expired on December 31, 2014. Production that we no longer sell to Mauna Loa (estimated to be 18.5 million pounds of WIS nuts in 2015) will be utilized to make our branded products for retail distribution or processed and sold. We believe that given the current market prices for macadamia nuts, we will be able to sell or find replacement buyers for the nut production that is no longer subject to a nut purchase contract. However, there is no assurance that we can find new buyers or that such new customers will be creditworthy and able to pay for nuts delivered. If there is not sufficient demand for our branded products and we are unable to secure buyers for the nuts from the expired contracts, sales will decrease and our results of operation and financial condition will be adversely impacted. At this time, we do not have the capacity to dry all of our nuts or the ability to process any of our nut production, which could limit our ability to contract for timely processing of nuts at an acceptable quality and cost and could require us to sell a portion of our nuts in Hawaii at prices below those that could be obtained outside of Hawaii. Macadamia nuts are harvested wet-in-shell and will rapidly deteriorate if they are not promptly dried. Once the nuts are husked and dried, they can be shipped to customers or processors that are not on the island of Hawaii. We completed construction of the first phase of our drying facility in November 2014, which has the capacity to dry 12 million WIS pounds. The second phase is scheduled to be completed in 2015. This will give us the flexibility to consider processors and purchasers for our nuts both on and off of the island of Hawaii. If the construction of the second phase of the drying facility is not completed in a timely manner, we will need to continue to have a processor on the island of Hawaii process or purchase some of our nuts. Our current inability to dry all of our nuts, which could require us to continue to utilize third party processors in Hawaii to process or buy nuts, could have a material adverse impact on the prices that we may be able to obtain for our nuts compared to the price we could obtain if we were able to ship the nuts outside of Hawaii, and we might not be able to sell our nuts at all. Such limitation could also reduce the amount of nuts available for our branded products. Either event would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and results of operations. In addition, we will be contracting with other third parties to process our nuts, but there is no assurance that we will be able to contract for the timely processing of nuts at an acceptable quality and cost. Processing nuts outside of Hawaii could also subject the Partnership to risks of damage or loss of nuts in transit. 6 Table Of Contents A disruption at any of our production facilities would significantly decrease production, which could increase our cost of sales and reduce our net sales and income from operations. We plan to dry our nuts at our new drying plant and process and manufacture into products at third-party processor and manufacturing facilities. A temporary or extended interruption in operations at any of these facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage from fire, flood or earthquake, infrastructure failures such as power or water shortages, raw material shortage or any other reason, whether or not covered by insurance, could interrupt our process and manufacturing operations, disrupt communications with our customers and suppliers and cause us to lose sales and write off inventory. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of these facilities would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and package our products on our own and may cause us to seek additional third-party arrangements, thereby increasing production costs or in the case of our drying facility, prevent us from having sufficient nuts for our branded products business. These third parties may not be as efficient as we and our current processors and manufacturers are and may not have the capabilities to process and package some of our products, which could adversely affect sales or operating income. Further, current and potential customers might not purchase our products if they perceive our lack of alternate manufacturing facilities to be a risk to their continuing source of products. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers to manufacture all of our products, and the loss of a manufacturer or the inability of a manufacturer to fulfill our orders could adversely affect our ability to make timely deliveries of product. We currently rely on and may continue to rely on two manufacturers to produce all of our branded products. If either manufacturer were unable or unwilling to produce sufficient quantities of our products in a timely manner or renew contracts with us, we would have to identify and qualify new manufacturers, and we may be unable to do so. Due to industry and customer requirements that manufacturers of food products be certified and/or audited for compliance with food safety standards, the number of qualified manufacturers is constrained. As we expand our operations, we may have to seek new manufacturers and suppliers or enter into new arrangements with existing ones. However, only a limited number of manufacturers may have the ability to produce a high volume of our products, and it could take a significant period of time to locate and qualify such alternative production sources. In addition, we may encounter difficulties or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those that we currently enjoy. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify and qualify new manufacturers in a timely manner or that such manufacturers could allocate sufficient capacity to meet our requirements, which could materially adversely affect our ability to make timely deliveries of product. In addition, there can be no assurance that the capacity of our current manufacturers will be sufficient to fulfill our orders, and any supply shortfall could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Currently, some of our products are produced by a single third-party source that maintains only one facility. The risks of interruption described above are exacerbated with respect to such single-source, single-facility manufacturer. Our manufacturers are required to comply with quality and food production standards. The failure of our manufacturers to maintain the quality of our products could adversely affect our reputation in the market place and result in product recalls and product liability claims. Our manufacturers are required to maintain the quality of our products and to comply with our product specifications and requirements for certain certifications for food safety from third-party organizations. In addition, our manufacturers are required to comply with all federal, state and local laws with respect to food safety. However, there can be no assurance that our manufacturers will continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or in compliance with applicable laws and standards, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify instances in which our manufacturers fail to comply with such standards or applicable laws. We would have the same issue with new suppliers. The failure of any manufacturer to produce products that conform to applicable standards could materially and adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and result in product recalls, product liability claims and severe economic loss. Any significant delays of shipments to or from our warehouses could adversely affect our sales. Shipments to and from our warehouses could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including weather conditions, strikes, and shipping delays. Any significant delay in the shipments of product would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could cause our sales and earnings to fluctuate during a particular period or periods. We have from time to time experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the production and delivery of product. Our farming operations face a competitive labor market in Hawaii. Our farming operations require a large number of workers, many on a seasonal basis. The labor market on the island of Hawaii is very competitive, and most of our employees are unionized under contracts that expire in May 2016. In the event that we are not able to obtain and retain both permanent and seasonal workers to conduct our farming operations, or in the event that we are not able to maintain satisfactory relationships with our unionized workers, the Partnership’s financial results could be negatively impacted. Our operations rely on certain key personnel who are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified management and technical and support personnel. We cannot guarantee success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in those positions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. 7 Table Of Contents Our farming operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, and any failure to comply could result in significant fines or clean-up costs. We use herbicides, fertilizers and pesticides, some of which may be considered hazardous or toxic substances. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate our properties and farming operations and could make us liable for costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property that we currently own or lease, that we previously owned or leased, or upon which we currently or previously conducted farming operations. These laws could impose liabilities without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to use, sell or collateralize certain real property and result in significant fines or clean-up costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future environmental laws could impact our farming operations or increase our cost of goods. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in production and thus sales from our orchards, our quarterly results fluctuate, and our annual performance has depended largely on results from two quarters. Our business is highly seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak production and consumer demand for nut products during the months of October, November and December. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenues occurred during our third and fourth quarters, and we generally experienced lower revenues during our first and second quarters together with losses. Weather conditions may delay harvesting from December into early January, which may result in a fiscal year with lower than normal revenues. With the launch of our branded products business, WIS revenue continues to be highly seasonal, while branded products revenue is more evenly distributed throughout the year. Our branded products require us to carry additional inventory, which increases our working capital needs and our reliance on generating additional income from sales or obtaining additional external financing. Although branded products revenues are more evenly distributed throughout the year, this change has required us to carry larger quantities of inventory, increasing our working capital needs. If we are unable to generate additional working capital from product sales or obtain external financing, we may not be able to build the inventory necessary to maintain a sufficient and consistent supply of our branded products to meet customer demands, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and brand image. The price at which we can sell our macadamia nuts may not always exceed our cost of goods sold. During 2014, under our nut sale contracts with Mauna Loa, we received between 60.3 and 80.6 cents per WIS pound. During 2014, our costs to farm and produce these macadamia nuts, including depreciation of the trees, varied between 58.1 cents and 72.4 cents per WIS pound (depending on the orchard) or an average of approximately 67 cents per WIS pound (exclusive of the Mauna Kea orchards sold in June 2014). As our fixed price contracts with Mauna Loa have expired and have not been renewed, we will no longer have our price set and therefore will be subject to the risk of market pricing for those nuts not used in our branded products business. Macadamia orchards are required to be cultivated and farmed in order to maintain the trees, even in years where the price at which the macadamia nuts could be sold do not cover the cost of goods sold in any specific orchard. In such event, we could suffer losses from certain orchards, and our financial performance could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that the prices of macadamia nuts in the future will exceed the costs. Additional regulation could increase our costs of production, and our business could be adversely affected. As an agricultural company, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including regulation of the manner in which we cultivate, fertilize and process our macadamia nuts. Furthermore, processing and selling our branded products subject us to additional regulations regarding the manufacturing, distribution, and labeling of our products. There may be changes to the legal or regulatory environment, and governmental agencies and jurisdictions where we operate may impose new manufacturing, importation, processing, packaging, storage, distribution, labeling or other restrictions, which could increase our costs and affect our financial performance. Many of our production costs are not within our control, and we may not be able to recover cost increases in the form of price increases from our customers. We purchase water, electricity and fuel, fertilizer, pesticides, equipment and other products to conduct our farming operations and produce macadamia nuts. Transportation costs, including fuel and labor, also represent a significant portion of the cost of our nuts. These costs could fluctuate significantly over time due to factors that may be beyond our control. Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted if there are material increases in the costs we incur that are not offset by price increases for the products sold. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims. The production and sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. This risk increases as we move from primarily a farming operation into the marketing and sale of branded products. Although we believe we have implemented practices and procedures in our operations to promote high-quality and safe food products, we cannot assure you that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness or injury in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. 8 Table Of Contents We rely upon external financing which is secured by a pledge of all of our real and personal property. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our loan agreements, we could lose our assets. We rely on external financing, currently being provided by an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with American AgCredit, PCA (“AgCredit”), through a revolving credit facility and two term notes. This agreement contains various terms and conditions, including financial ratios and covenants, and is secured by all of the real and personal property of the Partnership. The first term loan matures on July 1, 2020. The second term loan matures on March 27, 2021. The revolving credit facility matures on March 27, 2017. This Amended and Restated Credit Agreement prohibits distributions to partners, other than tax distributions, without the prior consent of the lender. On multiple occasions during the last several years and as recently as the end of 2014, the Partnership has failed to comply with various covenants or financial ratios under its loan agreements but has been able to obtain waivers or modifications of the agreement to avoid a default. If we are unable to meet the terms and conditions of our loan agreements or to obtain waivers or modifications of such loan agreements, we could be in default under our loan agreements, and the lender would be able to accelerate the obligations and foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness. There is no assurance that we will be able to comply with our loan facilities or obtain waivers or modifications in the future to avoid a default. We could lose the production from certain orchards due to early lease termination privileges held by the lessor. We lease approximately 1,596 tree acres of land for our orchard operations. One of these leases, approximately 266 tree acres, has produced an average of 1.1 million WIS pounds over the past five years and terminates in 2019. Another of these leases terminates in 2034 but allows the lessor to purchase the trees from the Partnership at fair market value in 2019. This lease accounts for approximately 327 tree acres that have produced an average of 1.5 million WIS pounds over the past five years. We believe that this lessor may exercise his rights to take back these orchards in 2019. If that were to happen, we would lose approximately 593 tree acres or 12% of our production, which loss could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are involved in lawsuits regarding our performance under two of our leases, and we may not be successful. From time to time, we have disagreements with persons who lease orchards to us regarding our performance under the applicable lease agreement. At this time, a lessor who owns the approximately 266 and 327 tree acres subject to the leases described above, which produced approximately 1 million field pounds and 931,000 field pounds in 2014, respectively, has commenced litigation in Hawaii, claiming that we have breached the leases, thereby allowing the lessor to terminate the leases. We have denied these allegations and filed cross-claims against the lessor in this suit, and we intend to vigorously defend this claim. Prior to the date of the lessor’s suit, we had filed a suit in California against the lessor asserting damages for breach of contract and other claims. See Item 3-Legal Proceedings, below. If the lessor is successful in pursuing this claim, we would lose both of these leases and the acreage and nut production associated therewith, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Diseases and pests can adversely affect nut production. Macadamia trees are susceptible to various diseases and pests that can affect the health of the trees and resultant nut production. There are several types of fungal diseases that can affect flower and nut development. One of these is Phytophthora capsici, which affects the macadamia flowers and developing nuts, and another, Botrytis cinerea, causes senescence of the macadamia blossom before pollination is completed. These types of fungal disease are generally controllable with fungicides. Historically, these fungi have infested the reproductive plant parts at orchards located in Keaau during periods of persistent inclement weather. Tree losses may occur due to a problem known as Macadamia Quick Decline (“MQD”). Research at the University of Hawaii indicates that this affliction is due to Phytophthora capsici, which is associated with high moisture and poor drainage conditions. The Keaau Orchards are areas with high moisture conditions and may be more susceptible to the MQD problem. Afflicted trees in these regions are replaced with cultivars that are intolerant to MQD. The Partnership’s Keaau orchards experienced tree replacement of 1.4% in 2014 and 3.0% in 2013. Macadamia trees and production may also be affected by insects and other pests. The Southern Green Stink Bug disfigures the mature kernel and contributes to nut loss. The five-year historical nut loss due to the stink bug is 2.3%. Two natural enemies, a wasp and a fly, effectively keep nut losses at acceptable levels. An insect known as the Koa Seed Worm (“KSW”) causes full-sized nuts to fall that have not completed kernel development. The five-year average nut loss due to the KSW is 5.4%. The Tropical Nut Borer Beetle (“TNB”) bores through the mature macadamia shell and feeds on the kernel. Nut damage caused by the TNB is not recorded as a defect by Mauna Loa. However, field surveys in 2014 indicate that nut losses attributed to TNB is estimated to be around 1%. Damages caused by each insect may fluctuate when unfavorable environmental conditions affect the natural enemy population. In March 2005 a new insect pest, the Macadamia Felted Coccid (“MFC”), or Eriococcus ironsidei, was detected on macadamia trees in the South Kona area on the island of Hawaii. The insect is originally from Australia, and it has the potential to become a serious problem on macadamia nut trees and cause leaf die-back, floret drop and in severe cases possible tree death. Surveys show that this pest is well distributed throughout the Partnership’s Ka’u orchards. Climatic conditions, particularly extremely dry weather, are conducive for increased pest activity. Due to good rainfall for most of 2014, tree damage from MFC is less than in previous years. We continue to work with other growers and the State of Hawaii to control this pest, but there is no assurance we will be successful, and if the insect infestation worsens, we could lose some of our macadamia nut trees. The MFC has not been detected in the orchards at the wetter locations of Keaau. 9 Table Of Contents As indicated above, natural enemies are relied upon to manage insects that contribute to nut loss. Without these natural enemies, greater losses are possible. Pesticides may be available to manage these economic insect pests when treatment costs and nut loss justify their use, and when their use does not disrupt the natural enemy population. Honey bees are placed in the orchards to supplement other insect pollinators during the flower season. In late 2008, the Hawaii Department of Agriculture identified the Varroa mite on feral honey bees near the port of Hilo, Hawaii. This mite is an ectoparasite that attaches to the body of honey bees and weakens them, and can result in the destruction of bee hives and colonies. The apiaries that place hives in the macadamia nut orchards must manage this pest with miticide in order to maintain healthy bee colonies and avoid the development of pest resistance to the miticide. Increases in these diseases and pests or our inability to successfully control these diseases and pests could result in decreases in production, including loss of trees in affected orchards, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our orchards are susceptible to natural hazards such as wildfires, rainstorms, floods and windstorms, which may adversely affect nut production. Our orchards are located in areas on the island of Hawaii that are susceptible to natural hazards, including drought, wildfires, heavy rains, floods, and windstorms. Our orchards located in the Ka’u region are susceptible to wildfires due to recent drought conditions. In June and July 2012, a wildfire caused widespread damage to agricultural crops in the Ka’u region. The fire resulted in damage to irrigation pipes and approximately 24 tree acres of our macadamia nut orchards. Our orchards are also located in areas that are susceptible to heavy rainstorms. In November 2000, the Ka’u region was affected by flooding, resulting in some nut loss. Since the flood in 2000, heavy rain in the Ka’u region has not produced flooding of any consequence, but heavy rain and flooding continue to be potential risks that can affect our nut production. On August 7, 2014, tropical storm Iselle made landfall on the island of Hawaii with high winds and heavy rain resulting in some tree loss as well as increases in immature nut drop and mature nut loss due to storm run-off. In January 2015, another windstorm swept through the Ka’u region and caused a 1% loss of canopy to our orchards. Twenty-seven major windstorms have occurred on the island of Hawaii since 1961, and six of those caused material losses to our orchards. Most of our orchards are surrounded by windbreak trees, which provide limited protection. Younger trees that have not developed extensive root systems are particularly vulnerable to windstorms. The occurrence of any natural disaster affecting a material portion of our orchards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Our insurance may not be sufficient to reimburse us for crop losses. We obtain tree insurance each year under a federally subsidized program. The tree insurance for 2015 provides coverage up to a maximum of approximately $14.8 million against catastrophic loss of trees due to wind, fire or volcanic activity. Crop insurance was purchased for the 2014-2015 crop season and provides coverage for up to a maximum of approximately $14.0 million against loss of nuts due to wind, fire, volcanic activity, earthquake, adverse weather, wildlife damage and failure of irrigation water supplies. There is no assurance that such insurance will cover all losses incurred by the Partnership or that such insurance will be available or purchased in the same amount in future periods. Our orchards are subject to risks from active volcanoes. Our orchards are located on the island of Hawaii, where there are two active volcanoes. To date, no lava flows from either volcano have affected or threatened the orchards, but the risk remains. The amount and timing of rainfall can materially impact nut production. The productivity of orchards depends in large part on moisture conditions. Inadequate rainfall can reduce nut yields significantly, whereas excessive rain without adequate drainage can foster disease and hamper harvesting operations. Although rainfall at the orchards located in the Keaau area has generally been adequate, the orchards located in the Ka’u area generally receive less rainfall and, as a result, a portion of the Ka’u orchards is presently irrigated. Irrigation can mitigate some of the effects of a drought, but it cannot completely protect a macadamia nut crop from the effect of a drought. Also, the timing of rainfall relative to key development stages in the growing season can impact nut production. Excessive rains during the flowering season affects pollination and nut set at the Keaau orchards where flowering and the rainy season coincide. During 2014, the Ka’u and Keaau areas recorded 160% and 104%, respectively, of the 20-year average annual rainfall. However, the rainfall for June through September 2013 was 65% of the 20-year average, and the rainfall for November 2013 through January 2014, which are key development months, was 44% of the 20-year average, and negatively impacted nut set and nut retention for the 2014 crop. Regardless of the timing, lack of adequate rainfall for prolonged periods of time will also negatively affect nut production. We rely on irrigation water for our Ka’u orchards and orchards acquired from IASCO. If the capacities of those wells diminish or fail, we may not have an adequate water supply to irrigate our orchards, which could adversely affect our nut production. With the May 2000 acquisition of the farming business, we acquired an irrigation well (the “Sisal Well”), which supplies water to our orchards in the Ka’u region. Historically, the quantity of water available from the Sisal Well has been generally sufficient to irrigate these orchards in accordance with prudent farming practices. The irrigated portion of the Ka’u II Orchards is expected to need greater quantities of water as the orchards mature. We anticipate that the amount of water available from the Sisal well will be generally sufficient, assuming average levels of rainfall, to irrigate the irrigated orchards in accordance with prudent farming practices for the next several years. If the amount of water provided by the Sisal Well becomes insufficient to irrigate the above-named orchards, we may need to incur additional costs to increase the capacity of the Sisal Well, drill an alternative well into the historical source that provides water to the Sisal Well or obtain water from other sources in order to avoid diminished yields. 10 Table Of Contents Included in the assets we purchased from IASCO is an irrigation well (the “Palima Well”) that supplies water for the IASCO orchards, orchards owned by New Hawaii Macadamia Nut Co. (“NHMNC”), and trees owned by us on leased land from the State of Hawaii. Under a prior agreement with IASCO, NHMNC received a portion of the water pumped out of the Palima Well, and we, as the new owner of this well, are obligated to continue this service. The well provides supplemental irrigation and is generally sufficient, assuming average levels of rainfall, to sustain nut production at historical norms. If insufficient irrigation water is available to the irrigated orchards, then diminished yields of macadamia nut production can be expected, which could have a material adverse effect on nut production. Fluctuations in various food and supply costs as well as increased costs associated with product processing and transportation could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Both we and our manufacturers obtain some of the key ingredients used in our products from third-party suppliers. As with most food products, the availability and cost of raw materials used in our products can be significantly affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, growing decisions, government programs (including government programs and mandates relating to ethanol), weather conditions such as frosts, drought, and floods, and plant diseases, pests and other acts of nature. Because we do not control the production of raw materials, we are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production of raw materials based on conditions not within our control. Such conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, natural disasters, sustainability issues and boycotts of products or other catastrophic events. There can be no assurance that we or our manufacturers will be able to obtain alternative sources of raw materials at favorable prices, or at all, should there be shortages or other unfavorable conditions. In some instances, we enter into forward purchase commitments to secure the costs of projected commodity requirements needed to produce our finished goods. These commitments are stated at a firm price, or as a discount or premium from a future commodity price, and are placed with our manufacturers or directly with ingredient or packaging suppliers. There can be no assurance that our pricing commitments will result in the lowest available cost for the commodities used in our products. Our key raw material is macadamia nuts. We currently obtain the macadamia nuts for our products solely from our production in Hawaii. The inability to obtain macadamia nuts due to poor weather or for any reason could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, energy is required to process and produce our products. Transportation costs, including fuel and labor, also impact the cost of manufacturing our products. These costs fluctuate significantly over time due to factors that may be beyond our control. Our inability or our manufacturers’ inabilities to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products or energy at favorable prices, or at all, as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could cause an increase in our cost of sales and a corresponding decrease in gross margin, or cause our sales and earnings to fluctuate from period to period. Such fluctuations and decrease in gross margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. There is no assurance that we would be able to pass along any cost increases to our customers in the form of price increases. Our advertising is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act, which prohibits dissemination of false or misleading advertising. The National Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business Bureaus, Inc., which we refer to as NAD, administers a self-regulatory program of the advertising industry to ensure truth and accuracy in national advertising. NAD monitors national advertising and entertains inquiries and challenges from competing companies and consumers. Should our advertising be determined to be false or misleading, we may have to pay damages, withdraw our campaign and possibly face fines or sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. Adverse publicity or consumer concern regarding the safety and quality of food products or health concerns, whether with our products or for food products in the same food group as our products, may result in the loss of sales. We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety, quality and possible dietary benefits of our products. As a result, substantial negative publicity concerning one or more of our products or other foods similar to or in the same food group as our products could lead to a loss of consumer confidence in our products, removal of our products from retailers’ shelves and reduced prices and sales of our products. Product quality issues, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination, even when false or unfounded, could hurt the image of our brands and cause consumers to choose other products. Furthermore, any product recall, whether our own or by a third party within one of our categories or due to real or unfounded allegations, could damage our brand image and reputation. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we conduct operations in a market segment that suffers a loss in consumer confidence as to the safety and quality of food products, our business could be materially adversely affected. The food industry has recently been subject to negative publicity concerning the health implications of GMOs, obesity, trans fat, diacetyl, artificial growth hormones, arsenic in rice and bacterial contamination, such as salmonella and aflatoxin. Consumers may increasingly require that foods meet stricter standards than are required by applicable governmental agencies, thereby increasing the cost of manufacturing such foods and ingredients. Developments in any of these areas, including, but not limited to, a negative perception about our formulations, could cause our operating results to differ materially from expected results. Any of these events could harm our sales, increase our costs and hurt our operating results, perhaps significantly. 11 Table Of Contents We may experience increased competition for raw materials and from other producers of food products if the trend for non-GMO products continues, as well as increased regulation of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products contain only non-GMO ingredients. The food industry has been experiencing a significant trend in which an increasing number of consumers are requiring only non-GMO ingredients in their foods. Legislation could require companies to move to non-GMO labeling or ingredients. Such industry trends or legislation could result in changes to our labeling, advertising or packaging. As additional retailers require or consider requiring all of their products to be non-GMO, we may face increased competition for sources of raw materials that are non-GMO. Such industry pressure may be particularly problematic in the United States, where most farmers produce genetically modified foods, making it difficult to source non-GMO ingredients and raw materials. There is also a risk of contamination of non-GMO farms by neighboring GMO farms. Although the trend toward non-GMO products could be positive for our sales, an increase in competition and regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. As our business increases in size, we will need to locate and contract qualified co-packers with sufficient dedicated space for our non-GMO, gluten-free products, and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. We rely on a single co-packer for certain products. If demand for gluten-free products grows, we will need to increase our production through additional co-packers to ensure that we have sufficient supply to meet increasing demand. There is no assurance that we will be able to find available, qualified co-packers or that we will be able to negotiate contracts with them on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our business operations are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, exposing us to potential claims and compliance costs that could adversely affect our operations. Manufacturers and marketers of food products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the USDA, and other national, state and local authorities. For example, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the new Food Safety Modernization Act and their regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of foods. Under these acts, the FDA regulates manufacturing practices for foods through its current “good manufacturing practices” regulations, imposes ingredient specifications and requirements for many foods, inspects food facilities and issues recalls for tainted food products. Additionally, the USDA has adopted regulations with respect to a national organic labeling and certification program. Food manufacturing facilities and products are also subject to periodic inspection by federal, state and local authorities. State regulations are not always consistent with federal regulations or other state regulations. Any changes in laws and regulations applicable to food products could increase the cost of developing and distributing our products and otherwise increase the cost of conducting our business, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including future laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil liability, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any food products manufactured or marketed by us cause injury, illness or death. Regardless of whether such claims against us are valid, they may be expensive to defend and may generate negative publicity, both of which could materially adversely affect our operating results. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of bacterial contamination, foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents or residues introduced during production processes. Although we believe that we and our manufacturers are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if the consumption of our products causes or is alleged to have caused an illness in the future, we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding an illness, injury or death could materially adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers on a permanent basis as well as our corporate image and operating results. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this nature might not be covered by insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have. Although we have product liability insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be adequate, we cannot be sure that claims or liabilities will be asserted for which adequate insurance will be available or that such claims or liabilities will not exceed the available amount of insurance coverage. Our food products may also experience product tampering, contamination or spoilage or be mislabeled or otherwise damaged. Under certain circumstances, a product recall could be initiated, leading to a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and operating results. Recalls may be required to avoid seizures or civil or criminal litigation or due to market demands. Even if such a situation does not necessitate a recall, product liability claims could be asserted against us. A product liability judgment or a product recall involving us or a third party within one of our categories could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity and could impair the perception of our brand for an extended period of time. Even if we have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and brand image. 12 Table Of Contents The food industry has been subject to a growing number of claims, including class action lawsuits based on the nutritional content of food products and on disclosure and advertising practices. We may face these types of claims and proceedings and, even if we are successful in defending these claims, publicity about these matters may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. In addition, suits against our competitors can harm our business. These types of class action lawsuits can also make it more difficult for us to market our products by restricting our ability to differentiate the functional food aspects of our products from other products on the market. Furthermore, the defense of class action lawsuits can result in significant costs, which are oftentimes not covered by insurance, can be time-consuming and can divert the attention of management from other matters relating to our business. The food industry is highly competitive, and we compete with many companies that have greater resources than us. Numerous multinational, regional and local firms currently compete, or are capable of competing, with us. Our products compete with branded products as well as generic and private-label products of food retailers, wholesalers and cooperatives. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, ability to satisfy specific consumer needs (including gluten-free needs), brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. Some competitors may have different profit or strategic objectives than we do. Some competitors may invest in discounts or trade credit at a time when we are investing in new packaging and promotion, or vice versa. Competitors may develop new patentable technology that results in products which are able to compete successfully with our products. Substantial advertising and promotional expenditures are required to maintain or improve a brand’s market position or to introduce a new product, and participants in our industry are engaging with new media, including customer outreach through social media and web-based vehicles, which require additional staffing and financial resources. Our largest principal competitors are Kraft Foods, Dole, Blue Diamond Growers, Diamond Foods, Paramount Farms and Mauna Loa, each of which has substantially greater market presence, longer operating histories, better distribution, and greater financial, marketing, capital and other resources than us. Our ability to gain or maintain market share may be limited as a result of actions by competitors or by the limited advertising and promotional resources available to us. Successful new product introductions are important to growing our business, and there is no guarantee that customers will accept our products for their stores or set reasonable prices for our products. Even where customers accept our products, we still must expend resources to create consumer awareness and generate interest in our products. In addition, competitors may offer significant price reductions, and we cannot ensure that consumers will find our products suitably differentiated from products of our competitors. The food industry and retailers in the grocery industry use new products as a way of creating excitement and variety of choices to attract consumers. There is a risk that we will be unable to develop new product technologies to address consumer demands. Even if we identify new innovations, the cost may be prohibitive, the products’ taste may not meet customer standards, there may be high introductory costs, we may have limited financial resources available for new product launches, there may be regulatory restrictions on the production and advertising of our new products, and our new products may take away sales from our other products. In addition, underperformance on new product launches can damage overall brand credibility with customers. Our ability to develop, market and sell new products at an appropriate price may be hampered by the inability to get shelf space for our products at a reasonable cost or, once placed, to have an attractive price set for our products. Competitors, many of whom have greater resources than us, vie for the same shelf placement and may offer incentives to the retailers that we cannot match. In addition, unattractive shelf placement and pricing may put us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors. Furthermore, there is a trend among retailers in the grocery industry to reduce the overall number of products offered in their stores, further increasing competition for shelf space and making it more difficult for us to keep existing products on the shelf and introduce new products with these retailers. Even if we do obtain shelf placement, our products may fail to achieve the sales expectations set by our retailers, potentially causing these retailers to remove our products from the shelf. As companies face more pressure for shelf space within each category, the increase in the number and quality of private-label products continues to affect branded products. We may need to increase our marketing and advertising spending to obtain and keep shelf placement for our products, create consumer awareness, protect and grow our existing market share, or promote new products, any of which could impact our operating results. The inability to stay current with healthy snack food trends through new products could materially adversely affect our business performance. 13 Table Of Contents The consolidation of retail customers could adversely affect us. Retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. Consolidation also produces larger, more sophisticated retail customers that can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, more promotional programs or specifically tailored products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. Further retail consolidation and increasing retail power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. If we need to compete with other manufacturers or with retailer brands on the basis of price, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our branded products face competition from private label products that at times may be sold at lower price points. The impact of price gaps between our products and private-label products may result in share erosion and harm our business. A number of our competitors have broader product lines, substantially greater financial and other resources and/or lower fixed costs than we have. Our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products that are more attractive to customers or consumers than ours are. These competitors may also prove to be more successful in marketing and selling their products than we are, and may be better able to increase prices to reflect cost pressures. We may not compete successfully with these other companies or maintain or grow the distribution of our products. We cannot predict the pricing, commodity costs, or promotional activities of our competitors or whether they will have a negative effect on us. Many of our competitors engage in aggressive pricing and promotional activities. There are competitive pressures and other factors which could cause our products to lose market share, a decline in sales, or result in significant price or margin erosion, which would have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant influence over the Partnership’s affairs may be exercised by certain holders of Units. Two principal holders own over 662/3% of the Units, which would give them the ability, if they act together, to remove the Managing Partner and elect a new Managing Partner. As of February 13, 2015, the holders of Units holding more than 5% of our Units were Fred and Mary Wilkie Ebrahimi (with approximately 64.1% beneficial ownership) and Barry W. Blank (with approximately 7.8% beneficial ownership). The Ebrahimis have the ability to control or block approvals that may be sought from holders of Units, including mergers, sales of substantial assets and modifications to the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, as amended through November 1, 2013 (“Partnership Agreement”), which generally require approval by holders of a majority of the Units. Together, the Ebrahimis and Mr. Blank have the ability to change the Managing Partner (which requires the affirmative vote of limited partners owning 662/3% of the outstanding Units) and effectively to control the Partnership. Effective October 1, 2009, Bradford C. Nelson was elected as a director of the Partnership. Mr. Nelson is the President and owner of West Sedge, Inc., which provides finance and management services to businesses and family offices, including companies owned by the Ebrahimi family and companies owned by Mr. Fred Ebrahami. Effective December 2012, Barry W. Blank was elected as a director of the Managing Partner. There is no affiliation between the Ebrahimis and Mr. Blank. It is possible that the interests of the Ebrahimis or Mr. Blank could conflict with the interests of the other holders of Units. The significant holdings of Units by the principal holders may adversely impact the market price of our Units and deter bids to acquire the Partnership. The significant concentration of Unit holdings may deter persons desiring to make bids to acquire the Partnership because they may not be able to do so without the cooperation of the principal holders of Units. In addition, if the principal holders or other large holders of Units were to sell a large number of the Partnership’s Units, the market price of our Units could decline significantly. Furthermore, the perception in the public market that the principal holders or other large holders of Units might sell the Partnership’s Units could depress the market price of the Partnership’s Units, regardless of their actual plans. Holders of Units have limited voting rights. Holders of Units have limited voting rights on matters affecting the Partnership’s business, which may have a negative effect on the price at which the Units trade. In particular, the holders of Units do not elect the directors of the Managing Partner. Furthermore, if holders of Units are not satisfied with the performance of the directors, they may find it difficult to remove any or all of the directors because the Partnership Agreement requires a vote of at least 662/3% of the outstanding Units to remove the Managing Partner. No change of the Managing Partner can be effected unless the Ebrahimis vote their Units in favor of the change. Ownership of the Partnership’s Units is different from ownership of stock, and unlike stockholders, holders of our Units do not have the right to elect directors of our Managing Partner. Although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business, limited partnership interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation. The Units represent limited partnership interests. The rights of a unitholder differ substantially from rights of a stockholder in many important respects. In particular, management of the Partnership is (except for certain specific matters requiring approval of unitholders) vested in the Managing Partner. Although holders of 662/3% of the Units have the power to remove and replace the Managing Partner, unitholders do not have the power to vote upon the composition of the Managing Partner’s Board of Directors. Moreover, the right of unitholders to participate in governance of the Partnership through exercise of voting rights is limited to certain specified matters. 14 Table Of Contents Our Units are not listed on a national securities exchange, which may make it more difficult to buy and sell Units and subjects us to fewer regulations than exchange-traded companies are subject to. Our Units are currently traded on the OTCQX, which is an over-the-counter securities market, under the symbol “NNUTU.” The fact that our Units are not listed on a national securities exchange is likely to make trading such Units more difficult for broker-dealers, holders of Units and investors. In addition, it may limit the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our Units, which may have an adverse effect on the price of our Units. It may also make it more difficult for the Partnership to raise capital in the future. In addition, because our Units are traded on the OTCQX, we are subject to fewer rules and regulations than if the Units were traded on NASDAQ Stock Market or another national securities exchange. Any tax benefits of investment in our Units are not certain. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our Units depends largely on the treatment of the Partnership as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well on as the Partnership not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Partnership were to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then the Partnership’s cash available for distribution to holders of Units could materially decline. Our branded products line of business operates through a corporate subsidiary which may result in increased taxes. Our branded products line of business is conducted through Royal, a wholly-owned separate, taxable corporation, so that the Partnership will not be considered to be engaging in a substantial new line of business that would terminate its status as an Electing 1987 Partnership as defined by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Code”). The Partnership’s transactions with Royal may be subject to federal, state or local taxes, and any income or gain that the Partnership derives from those transactions would be included in the Partnership’s income or gain that flows through to a holder of Units. In addition, distributions that the Partnership receives from Royal will be taxable dividends to the extent of Royal’s earnings and profits. Conversely, losses that may be incurred by the Partnership as a result of transactions with Royal may be subject to deferral or disallowance, and tax losses in Royal may not be available to offset the taxable income of the Partnership. Because Royal is subject to federal and state income tax, Royal’s income available for distribution will be reduced by those taxes. Your tax liability from the ownership of Units may exceed your distributions from the Partnership. The tax liability of holders of Units with respect to their Units could exceed their distributions from the Partnership with respect to Units. Holders of Units will generally be treated as partners to whom the Partnership will allocate taxable income, which can differ in amount from the cash distributed to holders of Units. Unitholders will be required to include their allocable share of the Partnership’s income in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, in some cases, for state and local income tax purposes, and to pay any taxes due thereon, even if they have not received a cash distribution from the Partnership for their allocable share of Partnership income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of Units could be more or less than expected. A holder of Units who disposes of Units will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis of such Units. Because distributions in excess of a Units holder’s allocable share of the Partnership’s net taxable income decrease the tax basis of the holder’s Units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the Units disposed of will, in effect, become taxable income if the Units are sold at a price greater than the tax basis of the holder of Units, even if the price received is less than the holder’s original cost. You will bear the tax liability on any income allocable to you. The book and tax treatment of the Units has changed over the years, and at this time for tax purposes a holder of Units will experience higher earnings or lower loss compared to the income determined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Furthermore, given the restrictions on distributions under the Partnership’s current financing agreement, holders of Units should not expect to receive any distributions with respect to their Units and, thus, will bear the tax liability on any income allocable to them. You may become subject to state and local taxes with respect to the Partnership’s activities. A holder of Units may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in the states where the Partnership owns property or conducts business. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may contest our tax positions, which could change the after-tax value of your investment. The IRS may disagree with the tax positions that we take. We may need to undertake administrative or judicial proceedings to defend our tax positions. The holders of Units will indirectly bear the costs of any such contest. We may not prevail in a tax contest. The existence of a tax contest may adversely affect the market for Units. An adverse ruling by the IRS could change the after-tax value of your investment. 15 Table Of Contents The Partnership may lose its status as an Electing 1987 Partnership taxable as a partnership, which could result in a substantial reduction in the value of the Units. The Partnership would be taxable as a corporation but for its status as an Electing 1987 Partnership, which allows the Partnership to be taxed as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the Partnership were to lose its status as an Electing 1987 Partnership and otherwise not qualify to be treated as a partnership under the publicly traded partnership rules, the Partnership would be taxed as a corporation and subject to U.S. federal and state taxation at the Partnership level. Distributions to Units holders would be treated either as a taxable dividend of current and accumulated earnings and profits or, in the absence of earnings and profits, as a nontaxable return of capital or taxable capital gain. Thus, taxation as a corporation would likely result in a material reduction of cash flow and after-tax return to holders of Units, and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of the Units. The Partnership’s allocations of profits and losses may not be respected by the IRS, which could result in changes to income allocation requiring holders to amend their tax returns and pay interest and penalties on any additional tax resulting from such adjustments. The Partnership intends to allocate profits and losses in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Code. However, the IRS rules that govern the allocations of profits and losses, particularly with respect to allocations to be made to maintain the uniformity of Units, to account for differences between the book and tax capital accounts holders of Units, to account for the purchase of Units through the exercise of subscription rights, and to account for varying prices paid by holders of Units to purchase their Units, including through purchases of Units through the exercise of subscription rights, are complex and uncertain, and there is no assurance that the IRS will respect the allocation methods utilized by the Managing Partner. If there is an IRS challenge, the Partnership will likely incur administrative costs to defend the allocations. The cost of defending the allocations will increase the Partnership’s expenses and will likely reduce the cash available for distribution, and may reduce the value of the Units. In addition, if an adjustment is required, holders of Units may be required to amend their income tax returns for the year(s) in question and pay interest and penalties on any additional tax resulting from the adjustment. The IRS may challenge our treatment of each purchaser of our Units as having the same tax treatment without regard to the actual Units purchased, which could result in audit adjustments to holders of Units. In order to maintain the uniformity of our Units so that they can be publicly traded, and because we are unable to match transferors and transferees of Units, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform in all respects to Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge of these positions could adversely affect the amount or timing of tax benefits available to holders of Units and could adversely affect the value of our Units or result in audit adjustments to holders of Units. The IRS may challenge our allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Units, which could change the allocation of such items among owners of Units. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Units based upon the ownership of our Units on the first business day of each month. This allocation method might not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations and could be challenged by the IRS. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, the allocations of items of income, gain, loss and deductions among holders of Units may be changed. A holder of Units whose Units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of Units) may be considered as having disposed of those Units, may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Units during the period of the loan, and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. A holder of Units whose Units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned Units. In that case, such holder may no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner in the Partnership with respect to those Units during the period of such loan and the may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those Units may not be reportable by such holder and any cash distributions received by the holder as to those Units could be taxable as ordinary income. Holders of Units desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their Units. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face tax issues from owning Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. The investment in Units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (or “IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to such investors. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, is unrelated business taxable income and is taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons are reduced by withholding taxes, and non-U.S. persons are required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their shares of our taxable income. 16 Table Of Contents New potential accounting rules related to leases may adversely affect our financial statements and create difficulty in meeting loan covenants. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and International Accounting Standards Board have proposed a comprehensive set of changes in accounting for leases. The lease accounting model contemplated by the new standard is a “right of use” model that assumes that each lease creates an asset (the lessee’s right to use the leased asset) and a liability (the future rent payment obligations), which should be reflected on a lessee’s balance sheet to fairly represent the lease transaction and the lessee’s related financial obligations. All of our orchard leases are accounted for as operating leases, with no related assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. Changes in lease accounting rules or their interpretation, or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by us, could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Should this lease accounting standard be adopted, we may need to renegotiate certain contracts, such as debt agreements, to address the impact on debt covenants of reporting lease liabilities on the balance sheet. For instance, the balance sheet reporting may affect our net worth and we may not be able to meet the minimum tangible net worth requirement as originally provided for under our present debt agreements with AgCredit. We will also need to ensure our systems are capable of processing the required information to satisfy the proposed requirements. Unauthorized access to confidential information and data on our information technology systems and security and data breaches could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. As part of our operations, we rely on our computer systems to manage inventory, process transactions, communicate with our suppliers and other third parties, and on continued and unimpeded access to secure network connections to use our computer systems. We have physical, technical and procedural safeguards in place that are designed to protect information and protect against security and data breaches as well as fraudulent transactions and other activities. Despite these safeguards and our other security processes and protections, we cannot be assured that all of our systems and processes are free from vulnerability to security breaches (through cyberattacks, which are evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, physical breach or other means) or inadvertent data disclosure by third parties or by us. A significant data security breach, including misappropriation of customer, distributor or employee confidential information, could cause us to incur significant costs, which may include potential cost of investigations, legal, forensic and consulting fees and expenses, costs and diversion of management attention required for investigation, remediation and litigation, substantial repair or replacement costs. We could also experience data losses that would impair our ability to manage inventories or process transactions and a negative impact on our reputation and loss of confidence of our customers, distributors, suppliers and others, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 