Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company does not provide forecasts of its future financial performance. However, from time to time, information provided by the Company or statements made by its employees may contain “forward looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts (including, but not limited to statements contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to liquidity and capital resources) may constitute forward looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward looking-statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The Company disclaims any obligation, except as specifically required by law and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in the Company’s expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and may in the future vary significantly from those stated in any forward looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, without limitation, the risks, uncertainties and other information discussed below and within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the accuracy of the Company’s internal estimates of revenue and operating expense levels. The following discussion of the Company’s risk factors should be read in conjunction with the financial statements contained herein and related notes thereto. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results The Company’s future operating results could vary substantially from quarter-to-quarter because of uncertainties and/or risks associated with such things as technological change, competition, and delays in the introduction of products or product enhancements and general market trends. Historically, the Company has operated with little backlog of orders because its software products are generally shipped as orders are received. As a result, net sales in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Further, the Company’s increased sales under its subscription sales model could result in decreased revenues over the short term. Because the Company’s staffing and operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of the Company’s costs are fixed in the short-term, small variations in the timing of revenues can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter-to-quarter. Because of these factors, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience such variations in operating results in the future or that such variations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Weakening of World Wide Economic Conditions and the Computer Software Market May Result in Lower Revenue Growth Rates or Decreased Revenues The revenue growth and profitability of the Company’s business depends on the overall demand for computer software and services, particularly in the markets in which it competes. Because the Company’s sales are primarily to major corporate customers, its business also depends on general economic and business conditions. A softening of demand for computer software and services caused by a weakening of the economy in the United States or abroad, may result in lower revenue growth rates, decreased revenues and reduced profitability. In addition, terrorist attacks against the United States, and the United States military response to these attacks have added to economic and political uncertainty which may adversely affect worldwide demand for computer software and services and result in significant fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies. In a weakened economy, the Company cannot be assured that it will be able to effectively promote future growth in its software and services revenues or maintain profitability. - 8 - Dependence on Principal Products In the year ended September 30, 2007, Monarch, Visual|QSM, Datawatch|BDS and Datawatch|ES accounted for approximately 54%, 18%, 14% and 8%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenue. The Company is primarily dependent on its Monarch, Visual|QSM, Datawatch|BDS and Datawatch|ES products. As a result, any factor adversely affecting sales of any of these products could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of its new and enhanced versions of these products and development of new versions of these and other products and subsequent acceptance of such new and enhanced products. In addition, competitive pressures or other factors may result in significant price erosion that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Dependence on New Introductions; New Product Delays Growth in the Company’s business depends in substantial part on the continuing introduction of new products. The length of product life cycles depends in part on end-user demand for new or additional functionality in the Company’s products. If the Company fails to accurately anticipate the demand for, or encounters any significant delays in developing or introducing, new products or additional functionality on its products, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Product life cycles can also be affected by the introduction by suppliers of operating systems of comparable functionality within their products. The failure of the Company to anticipate the introduction of additional functionality in products developed by such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company’s competitors may introduce products with more features and lower prices than the Company’s products. Such increase in competition could adversely affect the life cycles of the Company’s products, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Software products may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by the Company and by current and potential end-users, errors will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. Any failure by the Company to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. International Sales In the years ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, international sales accounted for approximately 31%, 32% and 36%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenue. The Company anticipates that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of its total revenue. A significant portion of the Company’s total revenue will therefore be subject to risks associated with international sales, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs, exchange rates and other barriers, political and economic instability, possible effects of war and acts of terrorism, difficulties in account receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors or representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, difficulties in protecting the Company’s intellectual property overseas, seasonality of sales and potentially adverse tax consequences. Acquisition Strategy As evidenced by the May 2006 acquisition of the IDARS business from ClearStory Systems, Inc., the August 2004 acquisition of Mergence Technologies Corporation and the October 2002 acquisition of Auxilor Inc., the Company continues to address the need to develop new products, in part, through the acquisition of other companies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which the Company has no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Achieving and maintaining the anticipated benefits of an acquisition will depend in part upon whether the integration of the companies’ business is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner, and there - 9 - can be no assurance that this will occur. The successful combination of companies in the high technology industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries. Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls The Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and President and the Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls will prevent all errors and intentional misrepresentations. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and no assurance can be given that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or intentional conduct may occur and not be detected. Rapid Technological Change The markets in which the Company competes have undergone, and can be expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change. The ability of the Company to grow will depend on its ability to successfully update and improve its existing products and market and license new products to meet the changing demands of the marketplace and that can compete successfully with the existing and new products of the Company’s competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully anticipate and satisfy the changing demands of the personal computer software marketplace, that the Company will be able to continue to enhance its product offerings, or that technological changes in hardware platforms or software operating systems, or the introduction of a new product by a competitor, will not render the Company’s products obsolete. Competition in the PC Software Industry The software market for personal computers is highly competitive and characterized by continual change and improvement in technology. Several of the Company’s existing and potential competitors, including BMC Software, Actuate Corporation, Hyperion, ASG Software Solutions, and others, have substantially greater financial, marketing and technological resources than the Company. No assurance can be given that the Company will have the resources required to compete successfully in the future. Dependence on Proprietary Software Technology The Company’s success is dependent upon proprietary software technology. Although the Company does not own all patents on any such technology, it does hold exclusive licenses to such technology and relies principally on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect its rights to such proprietary technology. Despite such precautions, there can be no assurance that such steps will be adequate to deter misappropriation of such technology. Reliance on Software License Agreements A majority of the Company’s products incorporate third-party proprietary technology which is generally licensed to the Company on an exclusive, worldwide basis. Failure by such third-parties to continue to develop technology for the Company and license such technology to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. - 10 - Dependence on the Ability to Hire and Retain Skilled Personnel Qualified personnel are in great demand throughout the software industry. The Company’s success depends, in large part, upon its ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly, technical personnel and product development and professional services personnel, sales and marketing personnel and other senior personnel. The Company’s failure to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel that are integral to the Company’s product development, professional services and direct sales teams may limit the rate at which the Company can generate sales and develop new products or product enhancements. A change in key management could result in transition and attrition in the affected department. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Evolving Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result in Additional Expenses and Continuing Uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations as well as the listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market, are creating uncertainty for public companies. The Company continually evaluates and monitors developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs incurred or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company has invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards. This investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If the Company’s efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against the Company and it may be harmed. Indirect Distribution Channels The Company sells a significant portion of its products through distributors and resellers, none of which are under the direct control of the Company. The loss of major distributors or resellers of the Company’s products, or a significant decline in their sales, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract or retain additional qualified distributors or resellers or that any such distributors or resellers will be able to effectively sell the Company’s products. The Company seeks to select and retain distributors and resellers on the basis of their business credentials and their ability to add value through expertise in specific vertical markets or application programming expertise. In addition, the Company relies on distributors and resellers to provide post-sales service and support, and any deficiencies in such service and support could adversely affect the Company’s business. Subscription Sales Model Risk During fiscal 2004, the Company introduced a subscription sales model for the sale of its enterprise products. This pricing model allows customers to begin using the Company’s products at a lower initial cost of software acquisition when compared to the more traditional perpetual license sale. While the subscription sales model is designed to increase the number of enterprise solutions sold and also reduce dependency on short-term sales by building a recurring revenue stream, it introduces increased risks for the Company primarily associated with the timing of revenue recognition and reduced cash flows. The subscription model delays revenue recognition when compared to the typical perpetual license sale and also, as the Company allows termination of certain subscriptions with 90 days notice, could result in decreased revenue for solutions sold under the model if the Company experiences a high percentage of subscription cancellations during the first 12 months or 24 months of the subscription. Further, as amounts due from customers are invoiced over the life of the subscription, there are delayed cash flows from subscription sales when compared to perpetual license sales. - 11 - Volatility of Stock Price As is frequently the case with the stocks of high technology companies, the market price of the Company’s common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Factors such as quarterly fluctuations in results of operations, increased competition, the introduction of new products by the Company or its competitors, expenses or other difficulties associated with assimilating companies acquired by the Company, changes in the mix of sales channels, the timing of significant customer orders, and macroeconomic conditions generally, may have a significant impact on the market price of the stock of the Company. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings from the levels anticipated by securities analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock in any given period. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market price for many high technology companies and which, on occasion, have appeared to be unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Item 