Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our units, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Dependence Upon Single Nut Purchaser. From 1986 through 2006 and from 2010 through 2012, the Partnership has relied upon a single customer, Mauna Loa, to purchase all of the nuts that it produces under various nut purchase agreements, which require the Partnership to sell and Mauna Loa to buy all of the Partnership’s production of macadamia nuts at various prices. In 2013, Mauna Loa is still the only outside purchaser, although the Partnership intends to sell the nut production that was covered by the nut purchase agreement with Mauna Loa that expired in 2012 to Royal, its subsidiary; any disruption of that relationship could significantly adversely affect the Partnership if it was not able to find alternative purchasers at comparable prices for its nut production. See “BUSINESS OF THE PARTNERSHIP, Owned-Orchard Segment, Nut Purchase Contracts.” The Partnership relies on Mauna Loa’s timely performance and payment under the nut purchase agreements for all of its revenues from the sale of nuts. The Partnership believes that a material portion of the sales of macadamia nut products by Mauna Loa are to one large customer with multiple retail stores and therefore the Partnership believes that Mauna Loa also relies on that customer for such sales. If the buyer breached its obligation to pay for the macadamia nuts delivered, the Partnership would suffer substantial financial difficulty since its major source of revenue will have ceased. The Partnership would need to seek another buyer for all or some of the nuts. Although given current market conditions the Partnership believes it could find other buyers for its nuts, there could be delays or disruption in sales depending upon the available processing capacity and purchasing commitments of various buyers. 11 We are subject to risks relating to fixed price and market price nut purchase agreements. There are three long-term agreements requiring the purchase of nuts from the IASCO Orchards. They expire in 2029, 2078 and 2080 and provide for market determined prices. Effective January 1, 2012, three nut purchase contracts covered all of the Partnership’s production, other than the IASCO orchards, and provided for a fixed price. Approximately one third of the non-IASCO production is covered by a one year agreement, one third by a two year agreement and one third by a three year agreement, each at a fixed price. On December 31, 2012 the one year agreement expired. Fixed price contracts can be disadvantageous because the Partnership may not be able to pass on unexpected cost increases as they arise or may find that the spot price for nuts materially exceeds this fixed price, but they provide protection against adverse decline in market prices. On the other hand, a market price mechanism subjects the Partnership to the risk of a decline in world macadamia nut prices, which may or may not result in a price which covers the Partnership’s cost of production. For further information see “BUSINESS OF THE PARTNERSHIP, Owned-Orchard Segment Nut Purchase Contracts.” Our nut purchase agreements with Mauna Loa may not be renewed. The Partnership’s one year term nut purchase contract with Mauna Loa expired on December 31, 2012 and the Partnership has advised Mauna Loa that it will not be renewing the two year contract which will expire on December 31, 2013, as it was unable to obtain terms which were satisfactory to the Partnership. As a result, the Partnership will have to obtain replacement buyers for approximately 6.5 million pounds of wet-in-shell (“WIS”) nuts in 2013 and approximately 13 million WIS pounds in 2014. Additionally, if the Partnership does not renew the contract expiring on December 31, 2014, then the Partnership will have to obtain replacement buyers for approximately 19.5 million WIS pounds in 2015. The Partnership intends to sell the nuts to other buyers and/or engage third parties to process the nuts for the Partnership, for its sale after processing, including kernel sales and sales of finished products. The Partnership believes that given the current market prices for macadamia nuts it will be able to sell or find replacement buyers for any nut production that ceases to continue to be subject to a nut purchase contract. However, there is no assurance of the creditworthiness of new customers and their ability to pay for nuts delivered. Also, if the replacement buyers require shipment of nuts outside of Hawaii, the Partnership would incur transportation costs which could increase cost of sales, and adversely affect the Partnership’s profitability. Further, the Partnership estimates that selling to replacement buyers will delay cash collection by approximately two months, which may create the need for short term borrowings. If the Partnership is unable to secure buyers for the nuts from the expiring contracts, sales would decrease and adversely impact the Partnership’s results of operation and financial condition. Mauna Loa has alleged that the Partnership did not negotiate the renewal of the one year and two year nut purchase contracts in good faith, and that the Partnership had not provided forecasted delivery information in the same formats and details as previous years. In January 2013 management of the Partnership addressed these allegations with Hershey’s, Mauna Loa’s parent company. Management believes that these issues have been reasonably responded to. There is, however, a risk that Hershey’s could delay payments or retaliate in some form even though the Partnership is the sole major supplier of nuts to Mauna Loa and management believes that it would be self-destructive for them to do anything that would disrupt their supply. Risks of alternative processing options. Under the three short-term contracts, one of which expired on December 31, 2012, it is the Partnership’s position that Mauna Loa is obligated, at the Partnership’s option, to use commercially reasonable efforts to process the Partnership’s available production covered by such contract at a fee equal to Mauna Loa’s cost for a period of two years after a contract is not renewed. Mauna Loa has refused to process the Partnership’s nuts into kernel under this provision of the agreements. In order to mitigate any damages and to provide for the processing of nuts covered by the contract that expired on December 31, 2012, on July 11, 2012, the Partnership entered into a nut processing agreement with MacFarms, under which MacFarms will process between 1.5 and 7.0 million pounds of WIS nuts into kernel for the Partnership during 2013, as elected by the Partnership. This is only a short term solution for nut processing. The Partnership believes it will be able to extend the term of the MacFarms agreement or engage other third parties to process its nuts. However, there is no 12 assurance that the Partnership will be able to contract for the timely processing of nuts with an acceptable quality and cost. All of the Partnership’s production has historically only been sold to Hawaii processors as shipping the crop to processors outside of Hawaii has not been required nor cost effective. The local processors have the ability to purchase nuts from other local farmers and kernel from local and foreign processors to satisfy their requirements. Nuts that are not purchased by the local processors would need to be processed into kernel for future sale or sold to a foreign buyer. This was the case in 2007 and 2008 when the Partnership was not able to sell all of its production and had unsold nuts held in inventory and nuts it had processed into kernel, which the Partnership eventually sold or inventoried for future sale. We may experience initial operating losses and risk unfavorable reception of new products as we seek to build our branded business. The Partnership has commenced production through co-packers of two distinct macadamia product lines intended as national premier branded macadamia product lines targeted toward consumers in the U.S. mainland. The development of the retail product lines and their launch involved considerable costs and the Partnership expects that this new line of business will incur significant operating losses until the products generate sufficient revenue to cover the expenses, which is not expected to occur until at least the third year of establishing this new line of business. Furthermore, if the Partnership’s new products are not favorably received, or if the products do not receive preferred shelf space at retail, the desired sales volume would not be generated and the Partnership’s revenues, profitability and financial condition would be adversely affected. With the development of these new lines, the Partnership entered into several agreements. Most agreements including those with co-packers allow for mutual termination with limited exposure. The Partnership will be liable for continued lease payments for a 1,017 square foot office lease in California, should it decide to exit the product lines. However, the lease agreement provides for assignments and subletting, which may limit its exposure. The term of the lease is five years commencing on April 1, 2013 and should sufficiently meet the Partnership’s need for the next five years. We will depend upon co-packers. The Partnership will rely on co-packers to produce its products. If the co-packers do not complete the production timely and with acceptable quality or if the products are not delivered in a timely manner, the Partnership’s customers may cancel orders or refuse to take delivery of the products, which would adversely affect sales and profitability. Should co-packers not adequately perform or cease operations, management feels that it will be able to find suitable replacements, but cannot guarantee that it will be able to do so or that it will receive the same pricing. Our products may face competition from competitors with greater resources. As a branded consumer snack food marketer, the Partnership operates in a highly competitive environment. In general, competition is based on product quality, price, brand recognition and brand loyalty. The Partnership’s products will compete against food and snack products sold by many regional and national companies, some of which are substantially larger and have greater resources than we have. We will also compete for presence on the shelf space of retail grocers, convenience stores, drug stores, mass merchandisers and club stores. As these retailers consolidate, the number of customers and potential customers declines and the purchasing power and logistics requirements of the consolidated retailers increases. The Partnership’s competitors with greater resources than the Partnership may be in a better position than the Partnership is to meet these requirements. If the Partnership cannot develop and improve our distribution and service capabilities, then the Partnership might not be able to compete effectively and may not generate or attain an acceptable level of sales. Changes in currency exchange rates may impact financial results. Over the past 24 months, the U.S. dollar has weakened against the Australian dollar, the other major producer of high quality macadamia nuts, which has led to decreased competition in the U.S. markets and a price advantage when exporting macadamias from the U.S. As the company implements its vertical integration strategy over the next several years, there are no assurances that the recent improvements in currency exchange rates will not reverse. The Partnership may be exposed to losses from sales agreements or service contracts in foreign regions. 13 Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Because the Partnership experiences seasonal fluctuations in production from our orchards and thus sales, the Partnership’s quarterly results fluctuate and our annual performance depends largely on results from two quarters. The Partnership’s business is highly seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak production and consumer demand for nut products during the months of October, November and December. Typically, a substantial portion of the Partnership’s revenues are generated during our third and fourth quarters. The Partnership generally experiences lower revenues during our first and second quarters and may incur losses in these quarters. The price at which we can sell our macadamia nuts may not always exceed our cost of goods sold. During 2012, under its nut sale contracts with Mauna Loa, the Partnership received between 77.0 and 78.6 cents per contract pound (as such term is defined in the relevant contract). During 2012, costs of goods sold of the Partnership to farm and produce these macadamia nuts, including depreciation of the trees, varied between 39.8 cents and $1.13 per contract pound or an average of approximately 63 cents per contract pound. At this time, in some orchards the cost of goods sold exceeded the price at which the Partnership sold the nuts while in other orchards, the cost of goods sold was substantially lower than the price at which the Partnership sold the nuts. If contracts with Mauna Loa expire and are not renewed, the Partnership will no longer have its price set and therefore will be subject to the risk of market pricing. Macadamia orchards are required to be cultivated and farmed in order to maintain the trees even in years where the price at which the macadamia nuts could be sold do not cover the cost of goods sold in this specific orchard. In such event the Partnership could suffer losses from certain orchards and its financial performance could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that the prices of macadamia nuts in the future will exceed the costs. At this time, the Partnership does not have the ability to dry or process its nut production, which prevents the Partnership from being able to ship its nuts outside of Hawaii for processing. Macadamia nuts are harvested wet-in-shell and will rapidly deteriorate if they are not promptly dried. Once the nuts are husked and dried, they can be shipped to customers or processors who are not on the island of Hawaii. At this time the Partnership does not have the facilities to dry its nut production. However, as part of its vertical integration strategy, if further testing shows favorable economics and it elects to provide husking and drying facilities to enable it to sell its nuts outside of Hawaii, the Partnership would need to build drying and storage facilities and upgrade its husking facility over the next 1-3 years in stages that will allow it to dry nuts that are harvested. This would permit the Partnership the flexibility to consider purchasers for its nuts both on and off of the island of Hawaii. Limiting the Partnership’s ability to deal only with Hawaii processors to process or buy nuts could have a material adverse impact on the prices that the Partnership may be able to obtain for its nuts compared to the price it could obtain if it were able to ship the nuts outside of Hawaii. This could also subject it to the risk that there may be no financially responsible processors or buyers for its nuts in Hawaii, which is similar to what occurred in 2007 when the Partnership was not able to sell its entire production. At this time the Partnership is solely dependent upon MacFarms to process nuts that are not being sold to Mauna Loa. Additional regulation could increase our costs of production and the Partnership’s business could be adversely affected. As an agricultural company, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including regulation of the manner in which we cultivate and fertilize as well as process our macadamia nuts. Additionally, as a processor and marketer of our branded products we will be subject to additional regulation regarding the manufacturing, distribution, and labeling of our products. There may be changes to the legal or regulatory environment, and governmental agencies and jurisdictions where we operate may impose new manufacturing, importation, processing, packaging, storage, distribution, labeling or other restrictions, which could increase our costs and affect our financial performance. Increased costs associated with producing the Partnership’s product such as water, electricity, fertilizer and cultivation costs could increase our expenses and impact our financial performance. The Partnership purchases water, electricity and fuel, fertilizer, pesticides, equipment and other products in order to conduct our farming operations to produce macadamia nuts. Transportation costs, including fuel and labor, also represent a significant portion of the cost of our nuts. These costs fluctuate significantly 14 over time due to factors that may be out of our control, including increasing fuel prices, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, employee strikes, increased export and import restrictions and other factors. At this time, the Partnership is not able to pass on the increased costs of production or transportation to our sole customer. Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted if there are material increases in the costs incurred by us, which we cannot recover through sales of branded products. The Partnership is subject to the risk of product liability claims. The growing and sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. This risk increases as the Partnership moves from primarily a farming operation into the marketing and sale of branded products. While we believe we have implemented practices and procedures in our operations to promote high-quality and safe food products, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness or injury in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. We rely upon external financing and must comply with loan agreement restrictions. The Partnership relies on external loan financing, currently being provided by a Credit Agreement with American Ag Credit, PCA through a revolving credit facility and a term note. This loan contains various terms and conditions, including financial ratios, covenants and is secured by all of the real and personal property of the Partnership. The term loan matures on July 1, 2020. The revolving credit facility matures on May 1, 2014. This Credit Agreement prohibits distributions to partners without the prior consent of the lender. On multiple occasions during the last several years and as recently as the end of 2010, the Partnership has failed to comply with various covenants or financial ratios under its loan agreements, but has been able to obtain waivers or modifications of the agreement to avoid a default. If the Partnership is unable to meet the terms and conditions of its lending arrangements or is unable to obtain waivers or modifications of such lending arrangements, it could be in default under its loan agreements and the lender would be able to accelerate the obligations and realize on the collateral securing the indebtedness. There is no assurance that the Partnership will be able to comply with its loan facilities or obtain waivers or modifications in the future to avoid a default. For further information see “BUSINESS OF THE PARTNERSHIP, Loan Agreement.” If we fail to comply with Partnership leases, we could lose the production from certain orchards. The Partnership leases approximately 1,922 tree acres for its orchard operations. One of these leases, approximately 266 tree acres, has produced an average of 1.5 million WIS pounds over the past 5 years and terminates in 2019. Two of these leases terminate in 2034, but allow the lessor to purchase the trees from the Partnership at fair market value in the year 2019. The two leases account for 653 tree acres which have produced an average of 3 million WIS pounds over the past 5 years. The Partnership believes that this landlord may exercise his rights to take back these orchards in 2019. As such, the Partnership would lose approximately 919 tree acres or 17% of its production which could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership’s operations. From time to time the Partnership has disagreements with persons who lease orchards to it regarding the Partnership’s performance under the lease agreement. At this time a landlord who owns 356 tree acres that have been leased to the Partnership and produced approximately 900,000 field pounds in 2012, has commenced litigation claiming that the Partnership has breached the lease and therefore the landlord has a right to terminate the lease. The Partnership has denied these allegations and is defending this claim. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. If the lessor is successful in pursuing this claim, the Partnership would lose this acreage and its nut production. This 356 tree acre lease is included in the 653 tree acre leases mentioned above. Diseases and pests can adversely affect nut production. Macadamia trees are susceptible to various diseases and pests which can affect the health of the trees and resultant nut production. There are several types of fungal diseases, which can affect flower and nut development. One of these is Phytophthora capsici, which affects the macadamia flowers and developing nuts, and another, Botrytis cinerea, causes senescence of the macadamia blossom before pollination is completed. These types of fungal disease are generally controllable with fungicides. Historically, these fungi have infested the reproductive plant parts at orchards located in Keaau and Mauna Kea during periods of persistent inclement weather. 15 Tree losses may occur due to a problem known as “Macadamia Quick Decline” (“MQD”). Research at the University of Hawaii indicates that this affliction is due to Phytophthora capsici which is associated with high moisture and poor drainage conditions. Both the Keaau and Mauna Kea Orchards are areas with high moisture conditions, and may be more susceptible to the MQD problem. Afflicted trees in these regions are replaced with cultivars that are intolerant to MQD. The Partnership’s Keaau orchards experienced tree replacement of 2.2% in 2012, 1.4% in 2011, and 0.7% in 2010. Macadamia trees and production may also be affected by insects and other pests. The Southern Green Stink Bug disfigures the mature kernel and contributes to a historical loss of nuts of 1.5%. Two natural enemies, a wasp and a fly, effectively keep nut losses at acceptable levels. An insect known as the Koa Seed Worm (“KSW”) causes fully sized nuts to fall that have not completed kernel development. The affect of the KSW contribute to an average loss of nuts of 2.9%. The Tropical Nut Borer Beetle (“TNB”) bores through the mature macadamia shell and feeds on the kernel. Nut damage caused by the TNB is not recorded as a defect by Mauna Loa. However, field surveys indicate that nut losses attributed to TNB was less than 1% in 2012. Damages caused by each insect may fluctuate when unfavorable environmental conditions affect the natural enemy population. In March 2005 a new insect pest, the Macadamia Feltid Coccid (“MFC”), Eriococcus ironsidei, was detected on macadamia trees in the South Kona area on the island of Hawaii. The insect is originally from Australia and it has the potential to become a serious problem on macadamia nut trees and cause leaf die-back, floret drop and in severe cases possible tree death. Surveys show that this pest is well distributed throughout the Partnership’s Ka’u orchards. Climatic conditions, particularly extremely dry weather are conducive for increased pest activity. It has not been detected in the orchards at the wetter locations of Keaau and Mauna Kea. As we indicated above, natural enemies are relied upon to manage insects that contribute to nut loss. Without these natural enemies, greater losses are possible. Pesticides may be available to manage these economic insect pests when treatment costs and nut loss justify its use, and when its use does not disrupt the natural enemy population. Honey bees are placed in the orchards to supplement other insect pollinators during the flower season. In late 2008, the Hawaii Department of Agriculture identified the Varroa mite on feral honey bees near the port of Hilo, Hawaii. This mite is an ectoparasite that attaches to the body of honey bees and weakens it which can result in destroying bee hives and colonies. The apiaries that place hives in the macadamia nut orchards must manage this pest with miticide to maintain healthy bee colonies and avoid the development of pest resistance to the miticide. Fires may adversely affect nut production. The Partnership’s orchards, located in the Ka’u region, are susceptible to wildfires due to recent drought conditions. In June and July 2012, a wildfire caused widespread damage to agricultural crops in the Ka’u region. The fire resulted in damage to irrigation pipes and approximately 24 tree acres of the Partnership’s macadamia nut orchards. Rainstorms and floods may adversely affect nut production. The Partnership’s orchards are located in areas on the island of Hawaii that are susceptible to heavy rainstorms. In November 2000, the Ka’u region was affected by flooding. This flooding resulted in some nut loss and expected 2000 harvesting being deferred to 2001. Since the flood in 2000, heavy rain in the Ka’u region has not produced flooding of any consequence, however heavy rain and flooding continue to be potential risks that can affect the Partnership’s nut production. Windstorms may adversely affect nut production. Some of the Partnership’s orchards are located in areas on the island of Hawaii that are susceptible to windstorms. Twenty-five major windstorms have occurred on the island of Hawaii since 1961, and four of those caused material losses to Partnership orchards. Most of the Partnership’s orchards are surrounded by windbreak trees, which provide limited protection. Younger trees that have not developed extensive root systems are particularly vulnerable to windstorms. 16 Our insurance may not be sufficient to reimburse us for crop losses. The Partnership obtains tree insurance each year under a federally subsidized program. The tree insurance for 2013 provides coverage up to a maximum of approximately $16.6 million against catastrophic loss of trees due to wind, fire or volcanic activity. Crop insurance was purchased for the 2012-2013 crop year and provides coverage up to a maximum of approximately $14.4 million against loss of nuts due to wind, fire, volcanic activity, earthquake, adverse weather, wildlife damage and failure of irrigation water supplies. There is no assurance that such insurance will cover all losses incurred by the Partnership or that such insurance will be available or purchased in the same amount in future periods. Risk of active volcanoes. The Partnership’s orchards are located on the island of Hawaii, where there are two active volcanoes. To date, no lava flows from either volcano have affected or threatened the orchards. The amount of rainfall can materially impact nut production. The productivity of orchards depends in large part on moisture conditions. Inadequate rainfall can reduce nut yields significantly, while excessive rain without adequate drainage can foster disease and hamper harvesting operations. While rainfall at the orchards located in the Keaau and Mauna Kea areas has generally been adequate, the orchards located in the Ka’u area generally receive less rainfall and, as a result, a portion of the Ka’u orchards is presently irrigated. Our current irrigation capacity can mitigate the effects of a drought, but it cannot completely protect a macadamia nut crop from the effect of a drought. During 2012, the Ka’u, Keaau and Mauna Kea areas recorded 49%, 77% and 108%, respectively, of the normal average annual rainfall in their area of the island. We may not always have adequate water supply to irrigate our orchards. With the May 2000 acquisition of the farming business, the Partnership acquired an irrigation well (the “Sisal Well”), which supplies water to the Partnership’s orchards in Ka’u which were purchased in June 1986 and 1989. On May 1, 2000, the Partnership entered into a license agreement with Mauna Kea Agribusiness Company, Inc. (“MKACI”) which allows the Partnership necessary access to maintain and operate the Sisal Well, as well as the use of roads to access, maintain and operate the Partnership’s macadamia orchards. Annual rent for the license agreement is One Dollar. The license agreement terminates on June 30, 2045 or earlier if the May 1, 2000 lease between the Partnership and Olson Trust is terminated by mutual consent. On a historical basis, the quantity of water available from the Sisal Well has been generally sufficient to irrigate these orchards in accordance with prudent farming practices. The irrigated portion of the Ka’u II Orchards is expected to need greater quantities of water as the orchards mature. The Partnership anticipates that the amount of water available from the Sisal well will be generally sufficient, assuming average levels of rainfall, to irrigate the irrigated orchards in accordance with prudent farming practices for the next several years. If the amount of water provided by the Sisal Well becomes insufficient to irrigate the above named orchards, the Partnership may consider increasing the capacity of the Sisal Well, drilling an alternative well into the historical source which provides water to the Sisal Well or obtaining water from other sources. In August 2010 the Partnership purchased the macadamia nut orchards, land and assets used in connection with macadamia nut farming operation from IASCO. Included in the assets is an irrigation well (the “Palima Well”) that supplies water for the IASCO orchards, orchards owned by New Hawaii Macadamia Nut Co. (“NHMNC”), and trees owned by the Partnership on leased land from the State of Hawaii. Under a prior agreement with IASCO, NHMNC received a portion of the water pumped out of the Palima Well and the Partnership, as the new owner of this well, is obligated to continue this service. The well provides supplemental irrigation and is generally sufficient, assuming average levels of rainfall, to sustain nut production at historical norms. If insufficient irrigation water is available to the irrigated orchards, then, based on historical average rainfall levels, diminished yields of macadamia nut production can be expected. 17 Risks related to Hawaii Labor Market. The Partnership’s farming operations require a large number of workers, many on a seasonal basis. The labor market on the island of Hawaii is very competitive and most of the Partnership’s employees are unionized under contracts which expire in May 2013. In previous years, the Partnership has obtained the services of foreign workers, which it has discontinued. In the event that the Partnership is not able to obtain and retain both permanent and seasonal workers to conduct its farming operations, or in the event that the Partnership are not able to maintain satisfactory relationships with its unionized workers, the Partnership’s financial results could be negatively impacted. Risk of reliance on key personnel. Certain key personnel are critical to the Partnership’s business. The Partnership’s future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of key personnel. The Partnership’s future operating results also depend in significant part upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, technical and support personnel. The Partnership cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified individuals. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in those positions and it may become increasingly difficult for the Partnership to hire personnel over time. The Partnership’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by the Partnership’s inability to attract and retain skilled labor. Risk of environmental compliance. The Partnership uses herbicides, fertilizers and pesticides, some of which may be considered hazardous or toxic substances. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate the Partnership’s properties and its farming operations and could make the Partnership liable for costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property that it currently owns, leases or that the Partnership previously owned or leased or upon which the Partnership currently or previously conducted farming operations. These laws could impose liabilities without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to use or sell certain real property, use it as collateral or result in fines or clean up costs. Future environmental laws could impact the Partnership’s farming operations or increase its cost of goods. Significant influence over the Partnership’s affairs may be exercised by certain Class “A” unit holders. As of March 20, 2013 the Class “A” unit holders holding more than 5% of the units are Fred and Mary Wilkie Ebrahimi (approximately 51.5% beneficial ownership) and Barry W. Blank Living Trust (approximately 7.8% beneficial ownership). Fred and Mary Wilkie Ebrahimi or the principal unit holders, if they acted in concert, would have the ability to control or block approvals that may be sought from unit holders, including modifications to the Partnership Agreement. Also, the significant concentration of shareholding may deter persons desiring to make bids to acquire the Partnership, since they may not be able to do so without the cooperation of these principal shareholders. In addition, if the Ebrahimis or other large unit holders were to sell a large number of our units, the market price of our units could decline significantly. Furthermore, the perception in the public market that the Ebrahimis or other large unit holders might sell our units could depress the market price of our units, regardless of their actual plans. Effective October 1, 2009 Bradford C. Nelson was elected as a director of the Partnership. Mr. Nelson has been Chief Financial Officer of Seemorgh Investments, Inc., a company owned by Mr. Fred Ebrahimi, since January 2007 and has served as an officer and director of a group of companies in the United States of America, Europe and Asia owned by the Ebrahimi family since 2002. Effective December 2012 Barry W. Blank was elected as a director of the Partnership. Holders of Class “A” units of the Partnership have limited voting rights. Unit holders have limited voting rights on matters affecting the Partnership’s business, which may have a negative effect on the price at which the Partnership’s units trade. In particular, the unit holders do not elect the directors of the Managing Partner. Furthermore, if unit holders are not satisfied with the performance of the directors they may find it difficult to remove any or all of the directors as the Partnership Agreement requires a vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding units to remove the Managing Partner. 18 Tax risks to Class “A” unit holders. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in the Partnership’s units depends largely on the treatment of the Partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as the Partnership not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Partnership were to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then the Partnership’s cash available for distribution to unit holders could materially decline. The tax liability of unit holders could exceed their distributions or proceeds from sales of Class “A” units. Because the unit holders will generally be treated as partners to whom the Partnership will allocate taxable income, which can differ in amount than the cash distributed, the unit holders will be required to pay any federal income tax and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of the Partnership’s income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of the Partnership’s Class “A” units could be more or less than expected. If a unit holder disposes of his units, the unit holder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unit holder’s tax basis. Because distributions in excess of a unit holder’s allocable share of the Partnership’s net taxable income decrease the unit holder’s tax basis in the unit holder’s units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income, if the units sold are at a price greater than the unit holder’s tax basis, even if the price received is less than the unit holder’s original cost. The book and tax treatment of the units have changed over the years and at this time for tax purposes the unit holder may experience higher taxable income or lower loss compared to the income determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As a result of investing in the Partnership’s Class “A” units, a unit holder may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in the states where the Partnership owns property and conducts business. Ownership of the Partnership’s Class “A” units raises issues for tax-exempt entities and other investors. Operations through the Partnership’s corporate subsidiary may result in increased taxes. The Partnership’s branded products line of business is conducted through Royal Hawaiian Macadamia Nut, Inc., a wholly owned separate, taxable corporation so that the Partnership will not be considered to be engaging in a substantial new line of business that would terminate its status as an Electing 1987 Partnership. The Partnership’s transactions with Royal may be subject to federal, state or local taxes and any income or gain that the Partnership derives from those transactions would be included in the Partnership’s income or gain that flows through to the unit holder. In addition, any distribution that the Partnership receives from Royal will be taxable dividends to the extent of Royal’s earnings and profits. Conversely, losses that may be incurred by the Partnership as a result of transactions with Royal may be subject to deferral or disallowance and tax losses in Royal may not be available to offset the taxable income in the Partnership. Because Royal is subject to federal and state income tax, Royal’s income available for distribution will be reduced by those taxes. Available Information. The Partnership files annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the Commission. These filings are available free of charge through the Partnership’s Internet website at www.royalhawaiianorchards.com or www.mlmacadamia.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Partnership electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Commission. The Partnership’s corporate governance guidelines, board committee charters and code of conduct are also available on the website, free of charge. Any unit holder, who so requests may obtain a printed copy of these documents from the Partnership, by contacting the Partnership at 808-969-8057, or in writing at 688 Kinoole Street, Suite 121, Hilo, Hawaii 96720. 19 