ITEM 1A. Risk Factors WE CANNOT ACCURATELY FORECAST OUR COMMISSION REVENUES BECAUSE OUR COMMISSIONS DEPEND ON PREMIUM RATES CHARGED BY INSURANCE COMPANIES, WHICH HISTORICALLY HAVE VARIED AND, AS A RESULT, HAVE BEEN DIFFICULT TO PREDICT. We are primarily engaged in insurance agency, wholesale brokerage, and insurance programs business, and derive revenues principally from commissions paid by insurance companies. Commissions are based upon a percentage of premiums paid by customers for insurance products. The amount of such commissions is therefore highly dependent on premium rates charged by insurance companies. We do not determine insurance premiums. Premium rates are determined by insurance companies based on a fluctuating market. Historically, property and casualty premiums have been cyclical in nature and have varied widely based on market conditions. As traditional risk-bearing insurance companies continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to non-affiliated brokers or agents such as us, those insurance companies may seek to reduce further their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to those insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our profitability. Because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, we cannot accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, our budgets for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures may have to be adjusted to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations. THE GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN THE U.S. HAS DECLINED, INDICATING THAT THE U.S. ECONOMY IS IN A RECESSION. Global consumer confidence has recently eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, potential inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. These concerns have slowed economic growth and resulted in a recession in the United States. Recent economic conditions have had a negative impact on our results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2008, due to reduced customer demand which is expected to continue for the next several fiscal quarters. If these economic conditions continue or worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including further declines in values of insurable exposure units, further declines in insurance premium rates, and the financial insolvency, or reduced ability to pay, of certain of our customers. Any of these effects could decrease our net revenue and profitability. WE COULD INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES FROM OUR CASH AND INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS IF ONE OF THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT WE USE FAILS OR IS TAKEN OVER BY THE U.S. FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION (“FDIC”). Traditionally, we have maintained cash and investment balances, including restricted cash held in premium trust accounts, at various depository institutions in amounts that are significantly in excess of the FDIC insurance limits. While we have recently re-focused our investment and cash management strategy by moving more of our cash into non-interest bearing accounts (which are FDIC insured but not subject to any limits) and money market accounts (a portion of which recently became FDIC insured), we still maintain cash and investment balances in excess of the FDIC insurance limits. As the credit crisis persists, the financial strength of some depository institutions has diminished and this trend may continue. If one or more of the depository institutions in which we maintain significant cash balances were to fail, our ability to access these funds might be temporarily or permanently limited, and we could face material liquidity problems and potential material financial losses. OUR BUSINESS, AND THEREFORE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION, MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE CURRENT DISRUPTION IN THE U.S.-BASED CREDIT MARKETS AND BY THE INSTABILITY OF FINANCIAL SYSTEMS. The current disruption in the U.S.-based credit markets, the repricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets have created increasingly difficult conditions for financial institutions and certain insurance companies. These conditions include significant losses, greater volatility, significantly less liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency in certain markets. Most recently, such volatility has reached unprecedented levels and credit markets have been illiquid. These conditions have resulted in the failure of a number of financial institutions and unprecedented action by governmental authorities and central banks around the world, including investing in or lending money to financial institutions and insurance companies that are perceived to need additional capital. It is difficult to predict how long these conditions will persist and the extent to which our markets, products and business will be adversely affected. These unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. Although we are not currently 9 Table of Contents experiencing any limitation of access to our revolving credit facility (which matures in 2013) and are not aware of any issues impacting the ability or willingness of our lenders under such facility to honor their commitments to extend us credit, the failure of a lender could adversely affect our ability to borrow on that facility, which over time could negatively impact our ability to consummate significant acquisitions or make other significant capital expenditures. Continued adverse conditions in the credit markets in future years could adversely affect the availability and terms of future borrowings or renewals or refinancings. We also have a significant amount of trade accounts receivable from some of the insurance companies with which we place insurance. If those insurance companies were to experience liquidity problems or other financial difficulties, we could encounter delays or defaults in payments owed to us, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR BUSINESS, AND THEREFORE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION, MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ECONOMIC CONDITIONS THAT RESULT IN REDUCED INSURER CAPACITY Our results of operations are dependent upon the continued capacity of insurance carriers to underwrite risk and provide coverage, which depends in turn on insurance carriers’ ability to procure reinsurance, a matter over which we have no control. To the extent that reinsurance becomes less widely available, we may not be able to procure the amount or types of coverage desired by our customers and the coverage we are able to procure may be more expensive. INFLATION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS IN THE FUTURE. Given the current macroeconomic environment, it is possible that U.S. government actions, in the form of a monetary stimulus, a fiscal stimulus, or both, to the U.S. economy, may lead to inflationary conditions that would adversely affect our cost base, particularly resulting in an increase in our employee compensation benefits and our other operating expenses. This may harm our margins and profitability if we are unable to increase prices or cut costs enough to offset the effects of inflation in our cost base. WE ARE EXPOSED TO INTANGIBLE ASSET RISK; SPECIFICALLY, OUR GOODWILL MAY BECOME IMPAIRED IN THE FUTURE. As of the date of the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2008 fiscal year, we have $1,023,372 of goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”), we perform a goodwill impairment test at least on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We completed our most recent evaluation of impairment for goodwill as of November 30, 2008 and identified no impairment as a result of the evaluation. A further significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in the need to perform an impairment analysis under SFAS 142 in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write down of our goodwill is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge, which could result in material charges that are adverse to our operating results and financial position. See Notes 1 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 3 – “Goodwill” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES AND COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO UNCERTAINTY DUE TO INVESTIGATIONS BY GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITIES AND POTENTIAL RELATED PRIVATE LITIGATION. The business practices and compensation arrangements of the insurance intermediary industry, including our practices and arrangements, are subject to uncertainty due to investigations by various governmental authorities. The legislatures of various states may adopt new laws addressing contingent commission arrangements, including laws prohibiting such arrangements, and addressing disclosure of such arrangements to insureds. Various state departments of insurance may also adopt new regulations addressing these matters. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of the governmental inquiries and investigations into the insurance industry’s commission payment practices or the responses by the market and government regulators, any unfavorable resolution of these matters could adversely affect our results of operations, and if such resolution included a material decrease in our profit-sharing contingent commissions, it would be likely to have an adverse effect on our results of operations. OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR LIQUIDITY MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ERRORS AND OMISSIONS AND THE OUTCOME OF CERTAIN ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL CLAIMS, LAWSUITS AND PROCEEDINGS. We are subject to various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance in the ordinary course of business. Because we often assist clients with matters involving substantial amounts of money, including the placement of insurance and the handling of related claims, errors and omissions claims against us may arise which allege potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question. Claimants may seek large damage awards and these claims may involve potentially significant legal costs. Such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include claims for damages based on allegations that our employees or sub-agents improperly failed to procure 10 Table of Contents coverage, report claims on behalf of clients, provide insurance companies with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. We have established provisions against these potential matters which we believe to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to developments. While most of the errors and omissions claims made against us have, subject to our self-insured deductibles, been covered by our professional indemnity insurance, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if, in the future, our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. Our ability to obtain professional indemnity insurance in the amounts and with the deductibles we desire in the future may be adversely impacted by general developments in the market for such insurance or our own claims experience. In addition, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. WE DERIVE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR COMMISSION REVENUES FROM A LIMITED NUMBER OF INSURANCE COMPANIES, THE LOSS OF WHICH COULD RESULT IN ADDITIONAL EXPENSE AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 5.2% of our total revenues were derived from insurance policies underwritten by one insurance company. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 5.3% and 5.3%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from insurance policies underwritten by two separate insurance companies, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 5.3% and 4.9%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from insurance policies underwritten by the same two separate insurance companies. Should either of these insurance companies seek to terminate their arrangements with us, we believe that other insurance companies are available to underwrite the business, although some additional expense and loss of market share could possibly result. No other insurance company accounts for 5% or more of our total revenues. BECAUSE OUR BUSINESS IS HIGHLY CONCENTRATED IN CALIFORNIA, FLORIDA, MICHIGAN, NEW JERSEY, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, TEXAS AND WASHINGTON, ADVERSE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OR REGULATORY CHANGES IN THESE STATES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. A significant portion of our business is concentrated in California, Florida, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas and Washington. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and December 31, 2006, we derived $697.3 million or 72.2%, $653.0 million or 71.4% and $607.4 million, or 70.2%, of our commissions and fees, respectively, from our operations located in these states. We believe that these revenues are attributable predominately to clients in these states. We believe the regulatory environment for insurance intermediaries in these states currently is no more restrictive than in other states. The insurance business is a state-regulated industry, and therefore, state legislatures may enact laws that adversely affect the insurance industry. Because our business is concentrated in a few states, we face greater exposure to unfavorable changes in regulatory conditions in those states than insurance intermediaries whose operations are more diversified through a greater number of states. In addition, the occurrence of adverse economic conditions, natural or other disasters, or other circumstances specific to or otherwise significantly impacting these states could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. OUR GROWTH STRATEGY DEPENDS IN PART ON THE ACQUISITION OF OTHER INSURANCE INTERMEDIARIES, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS IN THE FUTURE AND WHICH, IF CONSUMMATED, MAY NOT BE ADVANTAGEOUS TO US. Our growth strategy includes the acquisition of insurance agencies, brokers and other intermediaries. Our ability to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, and expand into new markets will require us to continue to implement and improve our operations, financial, and management information systems. Integrated, acquired businesses may not achieve levels of revenue, profitability, or productivity comparable to our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. In addition, we compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with entities that have substantially greater resources than we do. Acquisitions also involve a number of special risks, such as: diversion of management’s attention; difficulties in the integration of acquired operations and retention of personnel; entry into unfamiliar markets; unanticipated problems or legal liabilities; and tax and accounting issues, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, our financial condition and cash flows. WE RECENTLY EXPANDED OUR OPERATIONS INTERNATIONALLY, WHICH MAY RESULT IN A NUMBER OF ADDITIONAL RISKS AND REQUIRE MORE MANAGEMENT TIME AND EXPENSE THAN OUR DOMESTIC OPERATIONS TO ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY. In 2008, we expanded our operations to the United Kingdom. This was the first time we have opened an office outside the United States. In addition, we intend to continue to consider additional international expansion opportunities. Our international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including: • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Less flexible employee relationships, which may make it difficult and expensive to terminate employees and which limits our ability to prohibit employees from competing with us after their employment ceases; 11 Table of Contents • Political and economic instability (including acts of terrorism and outbreaks of war); • Coordinating our communications and logistics across geographic distances and multiple time zones; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; • Adverse trade policies, and adverse changes to any of the policies of either the U.S. or any of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; • Adverse changes in tax rates; • Legal or political constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices; • Governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the United States; and • Burdens of complying with a wide variety of labor practices and foreign laws, including those relating to export and import duties, environmental policies and privacy issues. OUR CURRENT MARKET SHARE MAY DECREASE AS A RESULT OF INCREASED COMPETITION FROM INSURANCE COMPANIES AND THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY. The insurance intermediaries business is highly competitive and we actively compete with numerous firms for clients and insurance companies, many of which have relationships with insurance companies or have a significant presence in niche insurance markets that may give them an advantage over us. Because relationships between insurance intermediaries and insurance companies or clients are often local or regional in nature, this potential competitive disadvantage is particularly pronounced outside of Florida. A number of insurance companies are engaged in the direct sale of insurance, primarily to individuals, and do not pay commissions to agents and brokers. In addition, as and to the extent that banks, securities firms and insurance companies affiliate, the financial services industry may experience further consolidation, and we therefore may experience increased competition from insurance companies and the financial services industry, as a growing number of larger financial institutions increasingly, and aggressively, offer a wider variety of financial services, including insurance, than we currently offer. PROPOSED TORT REFORM LEGISLATION, IF ENACTED, COULD DECREASE DEMAND FOR LIABILITY INSURANCE, THEREBY REDUCING OUR COMMISSION REVENUES. Legislation concerning tort reform has been considered, from time to time, in the United States Congress and in several states legislatures. Among the provisions considered for inclusion in such legislation have been limitations on damage awards, including punitive damages, and various restrictions applicable to class action lawsuits. Enactment of these or similar provisions by Congress, or by states in which we sell insurance, could result in a reduction in the demand for liability insurance policies or a decrease in policy limits of such policies sold, thereby reducing our commission revenues. WE COMPETE IN A HIGHLY-REGULATED INDUSTRY, WHICH MAY RESULT IN INCREASED EXPENSES OR RESTRICTIONS ON OUR OPERATIONS. We conduct business in most states and are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by government agencies in the states in which we do business. The primary purpose of such regulation and supervision is to provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect the interests of our stockholders. The laws of the various state jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things, licensing of entities to transact business, licensing of agents, admittance of assets, regulating premium rates, approving policy forms, regulating unfair trade and claims practices, establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards, requiring participation in guarantee funds and shared market mechanisms, and restricting payment of dividends. Also, in response to perceived excessive cost or inadequacy of available insurance, states have from time to time created state insurance funds and assigned risk pools, which compete directly, on a subsidized basis, with private insurance providers. We act as agents and brokers for such state insurance funds and assigned risk pools in California and certain other states. These state funds and pools could choose to reduce the sales or brokerage commissions we receive. Any such reductions, in a state in which we have substantial operations, such as Florida, California or New York, could substantially affect the profitability of our operations in such state, or cause us to change our marketing focus. Further, state insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, and such re-examination may result in the enactment of insurance-related laws and regulations, or the issuance of interpretations thereof, that adversely affect our business. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable local, state and federal laws, rules and regulations, there can be no assurance that more restrictive laws, rules or regulations will not be adopted in the future that could make compliance more difficult or expensive. Specifically, recently adopted federal financial services modernization legislation could lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years, which could result in increased expenses or restrictions on our operations. 12 Table of Contents PROFIT-SHARING CONTINGENT COMMISSIONS AND OVERRIDE COMMISSIONS PAID BY INSURANCE COMPANIES ARE LESS PREDICTABLE THAN USUAL, WHICH IMPAIRS OUR ABILITY TO PREDICT THE AMOUNT OF SUCH COMMISSIONS THAT WE WILL RECEIVE. We derive a portion of our revenues from profit-sharing contingent commissions and override commissions paid by insurance companies. Profit-sharing contingent commissions are special revenue-sharing commissions paid by insurance companies based upon the profitability, volume and/or growth of the business placed with such companies during the prior year. We primarily receive these commissions in the first and second quarters of each year. The aggregate of these commissions generally have accounted for 5.2% to 6.6% of the previous year’s total annual revenues over the last three years. Due to the inherent uncertainty of loss in our industry and changes in underwriting criteria due in part to the high loss ratios experienced by insurance companies, we cannot predict the payment of these profit-sharing contingent commissions. Further, we have no control over the ability of insurance companies to estimate loss reserves, which affects our ability to make profit-sharing calculations. Override commissions are paid by insurance companies based on the volume of business that we place with them and are generally paid over the course of the year. Because profit-sharing contingent commissions and override commissions affect our revenues, any decrease in their payment to us could adversely affect the results of our operations and our financial condition. WE HAVE NOT DETERMINED THE AMOUNT OF RESOURCES AND THE TIME THAT WILL BE NECESSARY TO ADEQUATELY RESPOND TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE IN OUR INDUSTRY, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Frequent technological changes, new products and services and evolving industry standards are all influencing the insurance business. The Internet, for example, is increasingly used to securely transmit benefits and related information to clients and to facilitate business-to-business information exchange and transactions. We believe that the development and implementation of new technologies will require additional investment of our capital resources in the future. We have not determined, however, the amount of resources and the time that this development and implementation may require, which may result in short-term, unexpected interruptions to our business, or may result in a competitive disadvantage in price and/or efficiency, as we endeavor to develop or implement new technologies. QUARTERLY AND ANNUAL VARIATIONS IN OUR COMMISSIONS THAT RESULT FROM THE TIMING OF POLICY RENEWALS AND THE NET EFFECT OF NEW AND LOST BUSINESS PRODUCTION MAY HAVE UNEXPECTED EFFECTS ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our commission income (including profit-sharing contingent commissions and override commissions but excluding fees) can vary quarterly or annually due to the timing of policy renewals and the net effect of new and lost business production. The factors that cause these variations are not within our control. Specifically, customers’ demand for insurance products can influence the timing of renewals, new business and lost business (which includes policies that are not renewed), and cancellations. In addition, as discussed, we rely on insurance companies for the payment of certain commissions. Because these payments are processed internally by these insurance companies, we may not receive a payment that is otherwise expected from a particular insurance company in one of our quarters or years until after the end of that period, which can adversely affect our ability to budget for significant future expenditures. Quarterly and annual fluctuations in revenues based on increases and decreases associated with the timing of policy renewals may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. WE MAY EXPERIENCE VOLATILITY IN OUR STOCK PRICE THAT COULD AFFECT YOUR INVESTMENT. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors, including: quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our future earnings; and our loss of significant customers or significant business developments relating to us or our competitors. Our common stock’s market price also may be affected by our ability to meet stock analysts’ earnings and other expectations. Any failure to meet such expectations, even if minor, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, stock markets have generally experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many listed companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. In the past, securities class action lawsuits frequently have been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies’ securities. If any such litigation is initiated against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. THE LOSS OF ANY MEMBER OF OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM, PARTICULARLY OUR CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, J. HYATT BROWN, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS. We believe that our future success partly depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, including senior management, brokers and other key personnel. The loss of any of our senior managers or other key personnel, or our inability to identify, recruit and retain such personnel, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we operate with a decentralized management system, the loss of the services of J. Hyatt Brown, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who beneficially owned approximately 15.2% of our outstanding common stock as of February 23, 2008, and is key to the development and implementation of our business strategy, could adversely affect our financial condition and future operating results. We maintain a $5 million “key man” life insurance policy with respect to Mr. Brown. We also maintain a $20 million insurance policy on the lives of Mr. Brown and his wife. Under the terms of an agreement with Mr. and Mrs. Brown, at the option of the Brown estate, we will purchase, upon the death of the later to die of Mr. Brown or his wife, shares of our common stock owned by Mr. and Mrs. Brown up to the maximum number that would exhaust the proceeds of the policy. 13 Table of Contents CERTAIN OF OUR EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS HAVE SIGNIFICANT CONTROL OF THE COMPANY. At February 23, 2009, our executive officers, directors and certain of their family members collectively beneficially owned approximately 21.2% of our outstanding common stock, of which J. Hyatt Brown, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his family members, which include his sons Powell Brown, our President, and Barrett Brown, also an employee of the Company, beneficially owned approximately 16.4%. As a result, our executive officers, directors and certain of their family members have significant influence over (1) the election of our Board of Directors, (2) the approval or disapproval of any other matters requiring stockholder approval, and (3) the affairs and policies of Brown & Brown. CHANGES IN THE SECURITIES LAWS AND REGULATIONS HAVE INCREASED AND MAY CONTINUE TO INCREASE OUR COSTS. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange have promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules has increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue for the foreseeable future. These developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors or qualified executive officers. DUE TO INHERENT LIMITATIONS, THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR SYSTEM OF DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES WILL BE SUCCESSFUL IN PREVENTING ALL ERRORS OR FRAUD, OR IN INFORMING MANAGEMENT OF ALL MATERIAL INFORMATION IN A TIMELY MANNER. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of a control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. IF WE RECEIVE OTHER THAN AN UNQUALIFIED OPINION ON THE ADEQUACY OF OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND FUTURE YEAR-ENDS AS REQUIRED BY SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, INVESTORS COULD LOSE CONFIDENCE IN THE RELIABILITY OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN A DECREASE IN THE VALUE OF YOUR SHARES. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include an annual report on internal control over financial reporting on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While we continuously conduct a rigorous review of our internal control over financial reporting in order to assure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, if our independent auditors interpret the Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently than we do or if our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the level at which it is documented, operated or reviewed, they may issue a report other than an unqualified opinion. A report other than an unqualified opinion could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. THERE ARE INHERENT UNCERTAINTIES INVOLVED IN ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (“GAAP”). ANY CHANGES IN ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The consolidated and condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, 14 Table of Contents judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 