ITEM 1A. Risk Factors WE CANNOT ACCURATELY FORECAST OUR COMMISSION REVENUES BECAUSE OUR COMMISSIONS DEPEND ON PREMIUM RATES CHARGED BY INSURANCE COMPANIES, WHICH HISTORICALLY HAVE VARIED AND, AS A RESULT, HAVE BEEN DIFFICULT TO PREDICT. We are primarily engaged in the insurance agency, wholesale brokerage, and insurance programs business, and derive revenues principally from commissions paid by insurance companies. Commissions are based upon a percentage of premiums paid by customers for insurance products. The amount of such commissions is therefore highly dependent on premium rates charged by insurance companies. We do not determine insurance premiums. Premium rates are determined by insurance companies based on a fluctuating market. Historically, property and casualty premiums have been cyclical in nature and have varied widely based on market conditions. As traditional risk-bearing insurance companies continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to non-affiliated brokers or agents such as us, those insurance companies may seek to reduce further their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to those insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our profitability. Because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, we cannot accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, we may have to adjust our budgets for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations. THE CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE U. S. ECONOMY CONTINUE TO AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Since late 2007, global consumer confidence has recently eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, potential inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, high unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. These concerns have slowed economic growth and resulted in a recession in the United States. Recent economic conditions have had a negative impact on our results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2009, due to reduced customer demand which is expected to continue for the next several fiscal quarters. If these economic conditions continue or worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including further declines in values of insurable exposure units, further declines in insurance premium rates, and the financial insolvency, or reduced ability to pay, of certain of our customers. Any of these effects could decrease our net revenue and profitability. WE COULD INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES FROM OUR CASH AND INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS IF ONE OF THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT WE USE FAILS OR IS TAKEN OVER BY THE U.S. FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION (“FDIC”). Traditionally, we have maintained cash and investment balances, including restricted cash held in premium trust accounts, at various depository institutions in amounts that are significantly in excess of the FDIC insurance limits. While we began in the fall of 2008 re-focusing our investment and cash management strategy by moving more of our cash into non-interest bearing accounts (which are FDIC insured until June 30, 2010, but not subject to any limits) and money market accounts (a portion of which became FDIC insured in the fall of 2008), we still maintain cash and investment balances in excess of the FDIC insurance limits. As the credit crisis persists, the financial strength of some depository institutions has diminished and this trend may continue. If one or more of the depository institutions with which we maintain significant cash balances were to fail, our ability to access these funds might be temporarily or permanently limited, and we could face material liquidity problems and potential material financial losses. OUR BUSINESS, AND THEREFORE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION, MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE FURTHER DISRUPTION IN THE U.S.-BASED CREDIT MARKETS AND BY FURTHER INSTABILITY OF FINANCIAL SYSTEMS. The recent disruption in the U.S.-based credit markets, the repricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets have created increasingly difficult conditions for financial institutions and certain insurance companies. These conditions include significant losses, greater volatility, significantly less liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency in certain markets. While these conditions have somewhat abated since the fall of 2008, it is difficult to predict when these conditions will completely end and the extent to which our markets, products and business will be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents These unprecedented disruptions in the credit and financial markets had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and limited access to capital and credit for many companies. Although we are not currently experiencing any limitation of access to our revolving credit facility (which matures in 2013) and are not aware of any issues impacting the ability or willingness of our lenders under such facility to honor their commitments to extend us credit, the failure of a lender could adversely affect our ability to borrow on that facility, which over time could negatively impact our ability to consummate significant acquisitions or make other significant capital expenditures. Continued adverse conditions in the credit markets in future years could adversely affect the availability and terms of future borrowings or renewals or refinancings. We also have a significant amount of trade accounts receivable from some insurance companies with which we place insurance. If those insurance companies were to experience liquidity problems or other financial difficulties, we could encounter delays or defaults in payments owed to us, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR BUSINESS, AND THEREFORE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION, MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ECONOMIC CONDITIONS THAT RESULT IN REDUCED INSURER CAPACITY. Our results of operations are depend on the continued capacity of insurance carriers to underwrite risk and provide coverage, which depends in turn on insurance companies’ ability to procure reinsurance. We have no control over these matters. To the extent that reinsurance becomes less widely available, we may not be able to procure the amount or types of coverage that our customers desire and the coverage we are able to procure may be more expensive or limited. INFLATION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS IN THE FUTURE. Given the current macroeconomic environment, it is possible that U.S. government actions, in the form of a monetary stimulus, a fiscal stimulus, or both, to the U.S. economy, could lead to inflationary conditions that would adversely affect our cost base, particularly resulting in an increase in our employee compensation benefits and our other operating expenses. This may harm our margins and profitability if we are unable to increase prices or cut costs enough to offset the effects of inflation in our cost base. WE ARE EXPOSED TO INTANGIBLE ASSET RISK; SPECIFICALLY, OUR GOODWILL MAY BECOME IMPAIRED IN THE FUTURE. As of the date of the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2009 fiscal year, we have $1,074,397 of goodwill recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We perform a goodwill impairment test on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We completed our most recent evaluation of impairment for goodwill as of November 30, 2009 and identified no impairment as a result of the evaluation. A further significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in the need to perform an additional impairment analysis prior to the next annual goodwill impairment test. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, we would then record the appropriate charge, which could result in material charges that are adverse to our operating results and financial position. See Notes 1 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 3 – “Goodwill” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES AND COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO UNCERTAINTY DUE TO INVESTIGATIONS BY GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITIES AND POTENTIAL RELATED PRIVATE LITIGATION. The business practices and compensation arrangements of the insurance intermediary industry, including our practices and arrangements, are subject to uncertainty due to investigations by various governmental authorities. The legislatures of various states may adopt new laws addressing contingent commission arrangements, including laws prohibiting such arrangements, and addressing disclosure of such arrangements to insureds. Various state departments of insurance may also adopt new regulations addressing these matters. While we cannot predict the outcome of the governmental inquiries and investigations into the insurance industry’s commission payment practices or the responses by the market and government regulators, any unfavorable resolution of these matters could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, if such resolution included a material decrease in our profit-sharing contingent commissions, it would likely adversely effect our results of operations. OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR LIQUIDITY MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ERRORS AND OMISSIONS AND THE OUTCOME OF CERTAIN ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL CLAIMS, LAWSUITS AND PROCEEDINGS. We are subject to various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement or servicing of insurance in the ordinary course of business. Because we often assist clients with matters involving substantial amounts of money, including the placement of insurance and the handling of related claims clients may assert, errors and omissions claims against us alleging potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question. Claimants may seek large damage awards, and these claims may involve potentially significant legal costs. Such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include claims for damages based on allegations that our employees or sub-agents improperly failed to procure coverage, report claims on behalf of clients, provide insurance companies with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. We have established provisions against these potential matters that we believe to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to developments. 10 Table of Contents While most of the errors and omissions claims made against us (subject to our self-insured deductibles), have been covered by our professional indemnity insurance, our business results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if, in the future, our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable, or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. Our ability to obtain professional indemnity insurance in the amounts and with the deductibles we desire in the future may be adversely impacted by general developments in the market for such insurance or our own claims experience. In addition, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. WE DERIVE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR COMMISSION REVENUES FROM A LIMITED NUMBER OF INSURANCE COMPANIES, THE LOSS OF WHICH COULD RESULT IN ADDITIONAL EXPENSE AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 5.0% and 5.0%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from insurance policies underwritten by two separate insurance companies. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 5.2% of our total revenues were derived from insurance policies underwritten by one insurance company. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 5.3% and 5.3%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from insurance policies underwritten by two separate insurance companies. Should either of these insurance companies seek to terminate their arrangements with us, we believe that other insurance companies are available to underwrite the business, although some additional expense and loss of market share could possibly result. No other insurance company accounts for 5% or more of our total revenues. BECAUSE OUR BUSINESS IS HIGHLY CONCENTRATED IN CALIFORNIA, FLORIDA, INDIANA, MICHIGAN, NEW JERSEY, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, TEXAS AND WASHINGTON, ADVERSE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OR REGULATORY CHANGES IN THESE STATES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. A significant portion of our business is concentrated in California, Florida, Indiana, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas and Washington. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we derived $716.6 million or 74.3%, $721.1 million or 74.6% and $673.9 million, or 73.7%, of our commissions and fees, respectively, from our operations located in these states. We believe that these revenues are attributable predominately to clients in these states. We believe the regulatory environment for insurance intermediaries in these states currently is no more restrictive than in other states. The insurance business is a state-regulated industry, and therefore, state legislatures may enact laws that adversely affect the insurance industry. Because our business is concentrated in a few states, we face greater exposure to unfavorable changes in regulatory conditions in those states than insurance intermediaries whose operations are more diversified through a greater number of states. In addition, the occurrence of adverse economic conditions, natural or other disasters, or other circumstances specific to or otherwise significantly impacting these states could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. OUR GROWTH STRATEGY DEPENDS IN PART ON THE ACQUISITION OF OTHER INSURANCE INTERMEDIARIES, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS IN THE FUTURE AND WHICH, IF CONSUMMATED, MAY NOT BE ADVANTAGEOUS TO US. Our growth strategy includes the acquisition of insurance agencies, brokers and other intermediaries. Our ability to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, and expand into new markets requires us to implement and improve our operations, financial, and management information systems. Integrated, acquired businesses may not achieve levels of revenue, profitability, or productivity comparable to our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. In addition, we compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with entities that have substantially greater resources than we do. Acquisitions also involve a number of special risks, such as: diversion of management’s attention; difficulties in the integration of acquired operations and retention of personnel; entry into unfamiliar markets; unanticipated problems or legal liabilities; and tax and accounting issues, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, financial condition and cash flows. WE RECENTLY EXPANDED OUR OPERATIONS INTERNATIONALLY, WHICH MAY RESULT IN A NUMBER OF ADDITIONAL RISKS AND REQUIRE MORE MANAGEMENT TIME AND EXPENSE THAN OUR DOMESTIC OPERATIONS TO ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY. In 2008, we expanded our operations to the United Kingdom. This was the first time we have opened an office outside the United States. In addition, we intend to continue to consider additional international expansion opportunities. Our international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including: • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Less flexible employee relationships, which may make it difficult and expensive to terminate employees and which limits our ability to prohibit employees from competing with us after their employment ceases; 11 Table of Contents • Political and economic instability (including acts of terrorism and outbreaks of war); • Coordinating our communications and logistics across geographic distances and multiple time zones; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; • Adverse trade policies, and adverse changes to any of the policies of either the U.S. or any of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; • Adverse changes in tax rates; • Legal or political constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices; • Governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the United States; and • Burdens of complying with a wide variety of labor practices and foreign laws, including those relating to export and import duties, environmental policies and privacy issues. OUR CURRENT MARKET SHARE MAY DECREASE AS A RESULT OF INCREASED COMPETITION FROM INSURANCE COMPANIES AND THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY. The insurance intermediaries business is highly competitive and we actively compete with numerous firms for clients and insurance companies, many of which have relationships with insurance companies or have a significant presence in niche insurance markets that may give them an advantage over us. Because relationships between insurance intermediaries and insurance companies or clients are often local or regional in nature, this potential competitive disadvantage is particularly pronounced outside of Florida. A number of insurance companies are engaged in the direct sale of insurance, primarily to individuals, and do not pay commissions to agents and brokers. In addition, as and to the extent that banks, securities firms and insurance companies affiliate, the financial services industry may experience further consolidation, and we therefore may experience increased competition from insurance companies and the financial services industry, as a growing number of larger financial institutions increasingly, and aggressively, offer a wider variety of financial services, including insurance, than we currently offer. PROPOSED TORT REFORM LEGISLATION, IF ENACTED, COULD DECREASE DEMAND FOR LIABILITY INSURANCE, THEREBY REDUCING OUR COMMISSION REVENUES. Legislation concerning tort reform has been considered, from time to time, in the United States Congress and in several state legislatures. Among the provisions considered in such legislation have been limitations on damage awards, including punitive damages, and various restrictions applicable to class action lawsuits. Enactment of these or similar provisions by Congress, or by states in which we sell insurance, could reduce the demand for liability insurance policies or lead to a decrease in policy limits of such policies sold, thereby reducing our commission revenues. WE COMPETE IN A HIGHLY-REGULATED INDUSTRY, WHICH MAY RESULT IN INCREASED EXPENSES OR RESTRICTIONS ON OUR OPERATIONS. We conduct business in most states and are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by government agencies in the states in which we do business. The primary purpose of such regulation and supervision is to provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect the interests of our stockholders. The laws of the various state jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things, licensing of entities to transact business, licensing of agents, admittance of assets, regulating premium rates, approving policy forms, regulating unfair trade and claims practices, establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards, requiring participation in guarantee funds and shared market mechanisms, and restricting payment of dividends. Also, in response to perceived excessive cost or inadequacy of available insurance, states have from time to time created state insurance funds and assigned risk pools, which compete directly, on a subsidized basis, with private insurance providers. We act as agents and brokers for such state insurance funds and assigned risk pools in California and certain other states. These state funds and pools could choose to reduce the sales or brokerage commissions we receive. Any such reductions, in a state in which we have substantial operations, such as Florida, California or New York, could substantially affect the profitability of our operations in such state, or cause us to change our marketing focus. Further, state insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, and such re-examination may result in the enactment of insurance-related laws and regulations, or the issuance of interpretations thereof, that adversely affect our business. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable local, state and federal laws, rules and regulations, there can be no assurance that more restrictive laws, rules or regulations will not be adopted in the future that could make compliance more difficult or expensive. Specifically, recently adopted federal financial services modernization legislation could lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years, which could result in increased expenses or restrictions on our operations. 12 Table of Contents PROFIT-SHARING CONTINGENT COMMISSIONS AND OVERRIDE COMMISSIONS PAID BY INSURANCE COMPANIES ARE LESS PREDICTABLE THAN USUAL, WHICH IMPAIRS OUR ABILITY TO PREDICT THE AMOUNT OF SUCH COMMISSIONS THAT WE WILL RECEIVE. We derive a portion of our revenues from profit-sharing contingent commissions and override commissions paid by insurance companies. Profit-sharing contingent commissions are special revenue-sharing commissions paid by insurance companies based upon the profitability, volume and/or growth of the business placed with such companies during the prior year. We primarily receive these commissions in the first and second quarters of each year. These commissions generally have accounted for 4.9% to 6.6% of our previous year’s total annual revenues over the last three years. Due to the inherent uncertainty of loss in our industry and changes in underwriting criteria due in part to the high loss ratios experienced by insurance companies, we cannot predict the payment of these profit-sharing contingent commissions. Further, we have no control over the ability of insurance companies to estimate loss reserves, which affects our ability to make profit-sharing calculations. Override commissions are paid by insurance companies based on the volume of business that we place with them and are generally paid over the course of the year. Because profit-sharing contingent commissions and override commissions materially affect our revenues, any decrease in their payment to us could adversely affect the results of our operations and our financial condition. WE HAVE NOT DETERMINED THE AMOUNT OF RESOURCES AND THE TIME THAT WILL BE NECESSARY TO ADEQUATELY RESPOND TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE IN OUR INDUSTRY, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Frequent technological changes, new products and services and evolving industry standards are influencing the insurance business. The Internet, for example, is increasingly used to securely transmit benefits and related information to clients and to facilitate business-to-business information exchange and transactions. We believe that the development and implementation of new technologies will require additional investment of our capital resources in the future. We have not determined, however, the amount of resources and the time that this development and implementation may require, which may result in short-term, unexpected interruptions to our business, or may result in a competitive disadvantage in price and/or efficiency, as we develop or implement new technologies. QUARTERLY AND ANNUAL VARIATIONS IN OUR COMMISSIONS THAT RESULT FROM THE TIMING OF POLICY RENEWALS AND THE NET EFFECT OF NEW AND LOST BUSINESS PRODUCTION MAY HAVE UNEXPECTED EFFECTS ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our commission income (including profit-sharing contingent commissions and override commissions but excluding fees) can vary quarterly or annually due to the timing of policy renewals and the net effect of new and lost business production. We do not control the factors that cause these variation. Specifically, customers’ demand for insurance products can influence the timing of renewals, new business and lost business (which includes policies that are not renewed), and cancellations. In addition, as discussed, we rely on insurance companies for the payment of certain commissions. Because these payments are processed internally by these insurance companies, we may not receive a payment that is otherwise expected from a particular insurance company in one of our quarters or years until after the end of that period, which can adversely affect our ability to budget for significant future expenditures. Quarterly and annual fluctuations in revenues based on increases and decreases associated with the timing of policy renewals may adversely effect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. WE MAY EXPERIENCE VOLATILITY IN OUR STOCK PRICE THAT COULD AFFECT YOUR INVESTMENT. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors, including: quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our future earnings; changes in securities analysts’ predictions regarding the short-term and long-term future of our industry; and our loss of significant customers or significant business developments relating to us or our competitors. Our common stock’s market price also may be affected by our ability to meet stock analysts’ earnings and other expectations. Any failure to meet such expectations, even if minor, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, stock markets have generally experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many listed companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. In the past, securities class action lawsuits frequently have been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies’ securities. If any such litigation is initiated against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. THE LOSS OF ANY MEMBER OF OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS. We believe that our future success partly depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, including senior management, brokers and other key personnel. Although we operate with a decentralized management system, the loss of any of our senior managers or other key personnel, or our inability to identify, recruit and retain such personnel, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT BUSINESS WOULD BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED IN THE EVENT OF AN INTERRUPTION IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND/OR DATA SECURITY AND/OR OUTSOURCING RELATIONSHIPS. Our business relies on information systems to provide effective and efficient service to our customers, process claims, and timely and accurately report results to carriers. An interruption of, or inability to, access our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. We are taking steps to upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities. Maintaining, protecting and enhancing these capabilities, to keep pace with evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences, requires an ongoing commitment of significant resources. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could have operational disruptions, have regulatory or other legal problems, have increases in operating expenses, lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, or suffer other adverse consequences. Our technological development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in the accelerated recognition of expenses. If we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. IMPROPER DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. We are responsible for maintaining the security and privacy of our clients’ confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their employees. We have put in place policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information, however, we cannot guarantee that this information will not be improperly disclosed or accessed. Disclosure of this information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, privacy laws and regulations are continuously changing and often are inconsistent among the states in which we operate. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement procedures to respond to these requirements could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation. 14 Table of Contents WE ARE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION WHICH, IF DETERMINED UNFAVORABLY TO US, COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are and may be subject to a number of claims, regulatory actions and other proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. We cannot, and likely will not be able to, predict the outcome of these claims, actions and proceedings with certainty. An adverse outcome in connection with one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any given quarterly or annual period. In addition, regardless of monetary costs, these matters could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and cause harm to our carrier, client or employee relationships, or divert personnel and management resources. While we currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. In addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance. Insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion. OUR INABILITY TO RETAIN OR HIRE QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO RETAIN EXISTING BUSINESS AND GENERATE NEW BUSINESS. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel. There is significant competition from within the insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for exceptional employees, especially in key positions. If we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Also, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. In addition, we could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our of our key executives. While we have succession plans in place and we have employment arrangements with certain key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these executives will continue to be available to us. CONSOLIDATION IN THE INDUSTRIES THAT WE SERVE COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Companies that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the overall amount of work that we perform for these clients. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. The increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. 15 Table of Contents HEALTHCARE REFORM AND INCREASED COSTS OF CURRENT EMPLOYEES’ MEDICAL AND OTHER BENEFITS COULD HAVE A MATERIALLY ADVERSE AFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Our profitability is affected by the cost of current employees’ medical and other benefits, as well as pension retirement benefits and postretirement medical benefits. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of economic factors beyond our control. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce our profitability. In addition, the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate passed separate health care reform bills late in 2009. Both chambers are seeking to reconcile their bills and therefore we do not currently know the ultimate outcome of the reconciliation process or the legislation. Depending on the provisions contained in the final law, this legislation could have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH NATURAL DISASTERS AND GLOBAL EVENTS. Our operations may be subject to natural disasters or other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our results of operation and increase our costs and expenses. We are susceptible to losses and interruptions caused by hurricanes (including in Florida, where our headquarters are located), earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, fire, extreme weather conditions, geopolitical events such as terrorist acts and other natural or manmade disasters. Our insurance coverage with respect to natural disasters is limited and is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Such coverage may not be adequate, or may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. 16 Table of Contents CERTAIN OF OUR EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS HAVE SIGNIFICANT CONTROL OF THE COMPANY. At February 23, 2010, our executive officers, directors and certain of their family members collectively beneficially owned approximately 20.7% of our outstanding common stock, of which J. Hyatt Brown, our Chairman, and his family members, which include his son Powell Brown, our President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 16.1%. As a result, our executive officers, directors and certain of their family members have significant influence over (1) the election of our Board of Directors, (2) the approval or disapproval of any other matters requiring stockholder approval, and (3) our affairs and policies. CHANGES IN THE LAWS AND REGULATIONS MAY INCREASE OUR COSTS. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange have promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules has increased our legal and financial and accounting costs. While these costs are no longer increasing, they may in fact increase in the future. These developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors or qualified executive officers. From time to time new regulations are enacted, or existing requirements are changed, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations and changes will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. For example, as global warming issues become more prevalent, the U.S. and foreign governments are beginning to respond to these issues. This increasing governmental focus on global warming may result in new environmental regulations that may negatively affect us and our customers. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers incurring additional compliance costs that get passed on to us. These costs may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. DUE TO INHERENT LIMITATIONS, THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR SYSTEM OF DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES WILL BE SUCCESSFUL IN PREVENTING ALL ERRORS OR FRAUD, OR IN INFORMING MANAGEMENT OF ALL MATERIAL INFORMATION IN A TIMELY MANNER. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of a control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. IF WE RECEIVE OTHER THAN AN UNQUALIFIED OPINION ON THE ADEQUACY OF OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND FUTURE YEAR-ENDS AS REQUIRED BY SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, INVESTORS COULD LOSE CONFIDENCE IN THE RELIABILITY OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN A DECREASE IN THE VALUE OF YOUR SHARES. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include an annual report on internal control over financial reporting on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We continuously conduct a rigorous review of our internal control over financial reporting in order to assure compliance with the Section 404 requirements. However, if our independent auditors interpret the Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently than we do, or if our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the level at which it is documented, operated or reviewed, they may issue a report other than an unqualified opinion. A report other than an unqualified opinion could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. 17 Table of Contents THERE ARE INHERENT UNCERTAINTIES INVOLVED IN ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (“GAAP”). ANY CHANGES IN ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The consolidated and condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 