ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: Certain Factors That May Affect Future Results The following is a summary description of some of the material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following statements should be carefully considered in evaluating us. Our ability to successfully complete the development of, and obtain regulatory approval to market and sell, ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic is uncertain because the results of our clinical trials may not demonstrate that ferumoxytol is safe and efficacious. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of ferumoxytol, we must demonstrate through extensive pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials that ferumoxytol is safe and efficacious. Ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic is currently in Phase III multi-center clinical studies, with enrollment completed in three of our four pivotal Phase III studies. Ferumoxytol may be found to be unsafe, to have harmful side effects on humans, to be ineffective or may otherwise fail to meet regulatory standards or receive necessary regulatory approvals. If ferumoxytol fails in any of the Phase III clinical trials or our Phase III clinical trials do not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, and market, ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, thereby dramatically reducing our potential future revenues and severely adversely impacting the future prospects for our business. For example, there are certain serious adverse reactions and side effects that are often associated with iron replacement therapeutics such as ferumoxytol. For IV iron replacement products that are currently being marketed, these serious adverse reactions have been seen more frequently when large doses of iron are delivered rapidly. In our clinical trials we are administering a relatively large dose of ferumoxytol more rapidly than the currently marketed products. If our studies show a sufficient number of cases of such reactions or side effects in patients which are deemed related to ferumoxytol, then ferumoxytol may be considered unsafe by the FDA and/or the physicians who select which iron replacement product patients will receive. In addition, clinical trials are often conducted in patients in the most advanced stages of disease. During the course of treatment, these patients can die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the investigational product being tested, but which can nevertheless adversely affect clinical trial results for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic and approvals by the FDA. Any such adverse results from our Phase III clinical trials would likely have a severe adverse impact on our stock price. Our results from pre-clinical testing, early clinical trials, and completed Phase III clinical trials of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic may not be predictive of results obtained in subsequent human clinical trials with respect to the safety or efficacy of ferumoxytol. For example, although we had positive results and no drug-related serious adverse events in our completed Phase III clinical trial of ferumoxytol, there can be no assurance that the results of our three remaining Phase III trials will be positive or that we will not observe an unacceptable level of drug-related serious adverse events in these trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage, or even Phase III, development. We cannot be sure that the data obtained from our Phase III clinical trials for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic will support the indication we are seeking or demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approvals. We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in order to market and sell our products, and the approval process is lengthy and unpredictable. Prior to marketing, every product candidate must undergo an extensive regulatory approval process in the United States and in every other country in which we intend to test and market our product candidates and products. This regulatory process includes testing and clinical trials of product candidates to demonstrate safety and efficacy and can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial 17 resources. In addition, changes in FDA or foreign regulatory approval policies or requirements may occur or new regulations may be promulgated which may result in a delay or failure to receive FDA or foreign regulatory approval. Delays and related costs in obtaining regulatory approvals could delay our product commercialization and revenue and consume our resources, both financial and managerial. Clinical testing of pharmaceutical products is itself subject to approvals by various governmental regulatory authorities. For example, we conduct our Phase III clinical trials in accordance with specific protocols, which are filed with the FDA. We may not be permitted by regulatory authorities to continue these clinical trials, or we may be required to revise our protocols during the course of these clinical trials, if the FDA determines that there are flaws in the design of the protocols or conduct of the trials during the course of the studies. Even if we complete our Phase III clinical trials in accordance with our protocols, the FDA may not approve ferumoxytol because it may determine that there were flaws in the design of our studies. For example, in discussions with us, the FDA recommended that we also test ferumoxytol at lower doses than 510 mg. We have chosen to continue our studies of ferumoxytol using only a 510 mg dose. If the FDA determines that the data we submit with our NDA for ferumoxytol does not support the safety of a 510 mg dose, it could require us to conduct additional studies and/or studies at lower doses as a condition for approval, in which case we could incur significant additional costs and experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for ferumoxytol. In addition, the FDA guidelines generally suggest that a sponsor like us conduct two adequate and well-controlled studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate such as ferumoxytol in support of FDA approval. FDA interpretation of the statutory requirements also states that a single study may be sufficient to support approval if the FDA determines that based on relevant science and other confirmatory evidence from pertinent, adequate and well-controlled studies, there is strong evidence to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate to support a single adequate and well-controlled study demonstrating safety and efficacy. We have chosen to conduct only a single study for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic in the HD-CKD patient population. If the FDA determines that the results of our single study HD-CKD, together with other confirmatory evidence we provide, is not sufficiently strong to demonstrate ferumoxytol’s safety and efficacy in HD-CKD patients, then ferumoxytol may not be approved by the FDA for our proposed indication or may be approved for a more limited indication. Any such deficiency in the design or oversight of our Phase III clinical studies by us would delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for ferumoxytol and would significantly increase the costs of our clinical trials and negatively affect our future prospects and stock price. We may also be required to demonstrate that ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic represents an improved form of treatment over existing therapies in order to receive regulatory approval, and we may be unable to do so without conducting further clinical studies, if at all. If, upon completion of our current Phase III clinical trial program, we need to perform additional studies, we could incur significant additional costs and experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic. In addition, regulatory approvals may entail limitations on the indicated uses of our ferumoxytol products and impose labeling requirements which may also adversely impact our ability to market such products. Any such requirements or limitations could also result in delays in, or the prevention of, our ability to make regulatory submissions and delays in, or the prevention of, the commercialization of our products. Any such delays would significantly impair or delay our ability to generate future revenues from product sales of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic and adversely impact the future prospects for our business. Any such delays could also have a severe adverse impact on our stock price. We may not complete our development program, file the NDA for ferumoxytol and obtain regulatory approval for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic in a timely or cost-effective manner. Our ability to complete our development program for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic and file the NDA for ferumoxytol in a timely and cost-effective manner is subject to a number 18 of uncertainties, many of which are out of our control. For example, the completion of our clinical trials depends, in large part, on patient enrollment. We rely on third-party clinical trial sites to find suitable patients for our clinical trial programs for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic. If these clinical trial sites do not find suitable patients in the timeframe for which we have planned, we will not be able to complete our clinical trials according to our expected schedule. In addition, we rely on third-parties for a variety of activities in our IV iron replacement therapy development program, including monitoring of our clinical sites, collection and analysis of data, clinical laboratory testing, randomization of clinical trial subjects, drafting study reports and assisting in regulatory submissions. Going forward, we intend to rely on a number of third party consultants to help us write and prepare the NDA submission for ferumoxytol. If we cannot engage a sufficient number of such third-parties or if they should fail to perform or perform inadequately, we may not complete our development program for ferumoxytol, file the NDA or obtain regulatory approval for ferumoxytol as an iron replacement therapeutic on our intended schedule or within our estimated budget. Any such delays or inadequate performance would also significantly impair or delay our ability to generate future revenues from sales of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic and adversely impact the future prospects for our business and our stock price. In addition to our internal research and development costs, we currently estimate that the future cost of the external efforts necessary to complete development of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic will be in the range of approximately $11 to $13 million over approximately the next 12 months. Our estimate of external costs to complete development of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic increased by approximately $2 million from our estimate as of June 30, 2006 due primarily to an increase in our estimated costs of third party service providers which we will need to engage to provide data management and study report drafting services to assist with our NDA submission. Our total estimated external costs necessary to complete development of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic could increase as a result of a number of factors. Examples of such factors include significant delays due to slow enrollment or unexpected results from our clinical sites, inadequate performance or errors by third-party service providers, deficiencies in our design or oversight of these studies, or the need to conduct additional clinical trials. We lack marketing and sales experience. We have very limited experience in marketing and selling products and rely on our corporate partners to market and sell Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK and have agreed to permit Cytogen to do so, pending FDA approval, for Combidex. In order to achieve commercial success for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, we will have to either develop our own internal marketing and sales department, including a direct sales force, enter into a collaborative arrangement with a third party or parties to market and sell ferumoxytol, or otherwise contract for these services with a third party. If we market and sell ferumoxytol ourselves, we may not be able to successfully recruit and retain the qualified marketing and sales personnel that would be necessary to market and sell ferumoxytol. In addition, in order to establish our own marketing and sales force, we will have to raise substantial amounts of additional capital to support the costs associated with such an effort. We may not be able to secure such additional financing on terms or within a timeframe acceptable to us, if at all. If we fail to raise the necessary capital, or choose not to market and sell ferumoxytol ourselves, we may not be able to enter into marketing and sales agreements or otherwise contract with others for such services on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in developing our own sales and marketing function or if we are unsuccessful in entering into a collaborative relationship or otherwise contracting with a third party for such services, then our product marketing efforts and potential product launch of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic would be delayed and the commercialization of ferumoxytol would be severely impaired. Furthermore, whether we market and sell ferumoxytol ourselves or through marketing and sales arrangements, we, or our corporate partners, may not be successful in marketing and selling our products. Any delay or failure in our commercial product launch of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement 19 therapeutic would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and on the future prospects for our business. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. This price has ranged between $8.95 and $44.43 in the fifty-two week period through November 15, 2006. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology and life sciences sector, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Various factors and events, including announcements by us or our competitors concerning results of regulatory actions, changes in reimbursement, technological innovations, new products, clinical trial results, agreements with collaborators, governmental regulations, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, or public concern regarding the safety of products developed by us or others, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. For example, any announcement by us of any actual or perceived adverse results from our clinical trials for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, particularly any actual or perceived adverse results with respect to ferumoxytol’s safety profile, would likely have a dramatic adverse impact on our stock price. Thus, as a result of events both within and beyond our control, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or lose value rapidly. Our trading volume has historically been low and therefore bulk sales or substantial purchases of our stock in a short period of time could cause the market price for our shares to decline or fluctuate drastically. We are dependent on a limited number of products and product candidates. We have two products, Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK, currently approved for marketing and sale in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions. The only other products currently in our development pipeline, Combidex and ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, are not yet approved for marketing or sale in the United States or in any other country. Sales of Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK by our marketing partners have been at relatively low levels in recent years, and we expect sales of Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK will remain at current low levels overall. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for Combidex or ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic in the United States or in any other country. Even if approved, Combidex and ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic may fail to achieve market acceptance. In this event, we do not currently have an alternative source of revenue or profits, other than Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK. Any failure by us to obtain approval of Combidex or ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and on the future prospects for our business. In addition, although we have dedicated significant resources to our research and development efforts in the past, we may not develop new applications for our existing technology or expand the indications for our current products or product candidates for development into future product candidates. We are not currently conducting or sponsoring research to expand our development pipeline. Any failure by us to develop and commercialize additional products and product candidates will place greater pressure on the performance of our existing products and product candidates and will materially adversely affect our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business. Our inability to obtain raw materials and our reliance on sole source suppliers could adversely impact our business. We currently purchase the raw materials used to manufacture our products from third-party suppliers. However, only in certain limited cases do we have any long-term supply contracts with these third parties. Certain raw materials used in our products are procured from a single source with no qualified alternative supplier. If any of these third-party suppliers should cease to produce the raw materials used in our 20 products, we would be unable to manufacture our products until we were able to qualify an alternative source. For example, during fiscal 2005 one of our suppliers notified us of its decision to discontinue manufacturing a key raw material in our manufacturing process for our products. At that time, we purchased all remaining inventory from the supplier and have since identified an alternative supplier and are continuing our efforts to find a second supplier of this raw material. The qualification of an alternative source may require repeated testing of the new materials and generate greater expenses to us if materials that we test do not perform in an acceptable manner. In addition, we sometimes obtain raw materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high quality standards imposed on our raw materials, we may not be able to obtain raw materials of the quality required to manufacture our products from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Any delay in or failure to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials would prevent us from manufacturing our products, both for commercial sale and for use by us in our ongoing clinical trials. In addition, even if we are able to obtain raw materials from an alternative source, if these raw materials are not available in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we would be unable to manufacture our products, both for commercial sale and for use in our clinical trials, on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any such difficulty in obtaining raw materials would severely hinder our ability to manufacture our products and would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues and our ability to achieve profitability, and on the future prospects for our business. Any such difficulty could also impede our development efforts with respect to our product candidates. We may not be successful in competing with other companies or our technology may become obsolete. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid technological change. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors including our ability to develop safe and efficacious products, our timely receipt of regulatory approvals, our ability to manufacture products at commercially acceptable costs, secure adequate reimbursement and the implementation of effective marketing campaigns by us or our marketing and distribution partners. We may not be able to successfully develop safe and efficacious products, obtain timely regulatory approvals, manufacture products at commercially acceptable costs, secure adequate reimbursement, market our products alone or with our partners, gain satisfactory market acceptance or otherwise successfully compete in the future. We have many competitors currently developing and/or marketing IV iron replacement therapy products or MRI contrast agents, many of whom have substantially greater capital and other resources than we do and represent significant competition for us. These companies may succeed in developing technologies and products that are safer, more effective or less costly than any that we may develop, and may be more successful than we are in developing, manufacturing and marketing products. In addition, our collaborators are not restricted from developing and marketing certain competing products and, as a result of certain cross-license agreements with our competitors (including one of our collaborators), our competitors will be able to utilize elements of our technology in the development of certain competing contrast agents. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies. Further technological and product developments may make other iron replacement therapy products more competitive than IV iron products or other imaging modalities more compelling than MRI, and adversely impact sales of our iron replacement therapy and imaging products. Additionally, although we believe ferumoxytol will offer advantages over existing products in the IV iron replacement therapy market, competing IV iron replacement therapy products may receive greater acceptance. The IV iron replacement market is highly sensitive to several factors including, but not limited to, the ability to obtain appropriate reimbursement, price competitiveness, and product characteristics such as dosing regimens. In particular, the IV iron replacement market is extremely sensitive to the perceived relative safety profiles of the various IV iron replacement therapeutics, and it will be critical for us to be 21 able to demonstrate that ferumoxytol’s safety profile is as good or better than that of other IV iron replacement products in order to be competitive in the marketplace. In addition, market acceptance of MRI as an appropriate technique for imaging the lymphatic system and the use of our products as part of such imaging is critical to the success of Combidex, if approved. Although we believe that our contrast agents offer advantages over competing MRI, CT or x-ray contrast agents, competing contrast agents might receive greater acceptance. Additionally, to the extent that other diagnostic techniques may be perceived as providing greater value than MRI, any corresponding decrease in the use of MRI could have an adverse effect on the demand for our contrast agent products. We are currently subject to litigation with one of our marketing partners, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our business. A lawsuit has been filed against us by one of our current marketing partners, Cytogen, alleging breach of contract, fraud, unjust enrichment, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing relating to a licensing agreement entered into between Cytogen and us in 2000, as amended. We believe the lawsuit has no merit and we plan to conduct a vigorous defense of the claims set forth in the complaint. Due to the fact that Cytogen is seeking unspecified damages and that the case is still in its early stages, we cannot at this time predict the outcome of the case nor estimate the possible loss or range of loss we could incur if there were an unfavorable outcome with respect to this litigation. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this lawsuit and any damages that we may suffer, our management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this lawsuit is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity might be materially adversely impacted since our existing insurance policies do not cover this matter. We may need additional capital to achieve our business objectives. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to complete the research, development, clinical trials, applications for regulatory approvals, market conditioning and other activities necessary to achieve final commercialization of our product candidates, ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic and Combidex. In particular, we anticipate that the high levels of expenditures related to our development activities will continue due to the conduct of our development program for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, our preparation of the NDA for ferumoxytol, and our development of a sales and marketing function, and that our cash-burn rate will continue to increase in the near- and long-term. Our near- and long-term capital requirements will also depend on additional factors, including, but not limited to, · the progress of, and our ability to successfully complete, development of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic in a timely manner and within our projected budget; · our need to hire additional staff and lease additional office space as part of our commercialization efforts for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, including our efforts to build an internal sales and marketing function; · the costs associated with preparing for commercial-scale manufacturing of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic and Combidex; · our ability to successfully obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, including our ability to satisfy the conditions specified by the FDA for approval of Combidex; · the magnitude of product sales and royalties; · our ability to establish additional development and marketing arrangements or to enter into alternative strategic relationships, if needed; · reimbursement from governmental and other third party payors; 22 · the costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; and · our ability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us. We estimate that our existing cash resources, combined with cash we currently expect to receive from other sources, excluding new financings, will be sufficient to finance our operations, including projected operating expenses and research and development costs related to the development program for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, for at least the next twelve months. Thereafter, we may require additional funds or need to establish alternative strategic arrangements to continue our research and development activities, including our ferumoxytol and Combidex development programs, to conduct future clinical trials for ferumoxytol in new indications, and to market and sell our products. We may seek needed funding through arrangements with collaborative partners or through public or private equity or debt financings. We may not be able to obtain financing or to secure alternative strategic arrangements on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. Any additional equity financings or alternative strategic arrangements would likely be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, the terms of any debt financing could greatly restrict our ability to raise additional capital and may provide rights and preferences to the investors in any such financing which are not available to current stockholders. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us when needed could force us to dramatically reduce our expenses and delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our activities and operations, including our research and development activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results will likely fluctuate so you should not rely on a good or bad quarter to predict how we will perform over time. Our future operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors including: · the timing and magnitude of external research and development expenses, in particular, those related to our development program for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic; · the timing and likelihood of FDA approval of Combidex, including the magnitude of potential costs we may incur, to satisfy the conditions specified by the FDA for approval of Combidex; · the variable nature of our product sales to our marketing partners and the batch size in which our products are manufactured; · uneven demand for our products by end users which affects the royalties we receive from our marketing partners; · the magnitude of future non-cash accounting charges we expect to record to expense in a given period as a result of our adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R or SFAS 123R; · the timing of our recognition of deferred revenue, which is affected by fluctuations in our activities under our license and marketing agreement with Cytogen; and · the extent of and changes in reimbursement for our approved products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. 23 We need to maintain, and possibly increase, our manufacturing capabilities in order to commercialize our products. We manufacture bulk Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK, as well as Feridex I.V. finished product, for sale by our marketing partners, Combidex bulk product for use in non-Phase III clinical trials and ferumoxytol for use in human clinical trials, in our Cambridge, MA manufacturing facility. Pending FDA approval, we intend to manufacture ferumoxytol finished product and Combidex formulated drug product in bulk at our manufacturing facility as well. This facility is subject to current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations prescribed by the FDA, or cGMP. We may not be able to continue to operate at commercial scale in compliance with cGMP regulations. Failure to operate in compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various regulatory agencies could delay our development efforts and impede product sales due to the unavailability of our products and product candidates. In addition, we are dependent on contract manufacturers for the final production of Combidex and do not currently have any long-term contracts in place with any third-party manufacturers to conduct this work. In the event that we are unable to arrange final manufacturing for Combidex, if approved, we will not be able to develop and commercialize this product as planned. Additionally, we may not be able to enter into agreements for the manufacture of future products with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements. Furthermore, such manufacturers may not be able to deliver required quantities of product that conform to specifications in a timely manner. We currently have only one manufacturing facility at which we produce limited quantities of ferumoxytol. Although we have tested scale-up for production of ferumoxytol, when we manufacture ferumoxytol in larger volumes for commercial sale, we could experience higher than anticipated material, labor and overhead costs per unit. Additionally, manufacturing and quality control problems may arise as we increase our level of production. We may not be able to increase our manufacturing capacity in a timely and cost-effective manner, and we may experience delays in manufacturing ferumoxytol. Furthermore, if we fail to attract and retain key members of our manufacturing or quality control departments, we may be unable to manufacture our products and product candidates in a timely manner, which could delay our product sales and development efforts. If we are unable to consistently manufacture our products on a timely basis because of these or other factors, we will not be able to meet anticipated demand. As a result, we may lose sales and fail to generate increased revenue. We have a limited number of customers and are dependent on our collaborative relationships. Our strategy for the development, commercialization and marketing of our product candidates in the past has been to enter into strategic relationships with various corporate partners, licensees and other collaborators. We rely on a limited number of marketing and distribution partners to market and sell our approved products, Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK, both in the United States and in foreign countries, and we depend on these strategic partners for a significant portion of our revenue. Three companies, Berlex, Guerbet and Mallinckrodt, Inc. (a division of Tyco-Healthcare), accounted for 41%, 37% and 11%, respectively, of our revenues in fiscal 2006. A decrease in revenue from any of our significant marketing or distribution partners would impair our overall revenues. In some cases, we have granted exclusive rights to these partners. If these partners are not successful in marketing our products, or if these partners fail to meet minimum sales requirements or projections, our ability to generate revenue would be substantially harmed. For example, to date, we have not generated significant revenues on royalties from the sale of our approved products by our marketing partners. In addition, we might incur further costs in an attempt to enforce our contractual rights, renegotiate agreements, find new partners or market our own products. In some cases, we are dependent upon some of our collaborators to manufacture and market our products. We may not be able to derive any revenues from these arrangements. If any of our collaborators breaches its agreement with us or otherwise fails to perform, such event could impair our revenue and impose additional costs on us. In addition, many of our corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue technologies or products 24 either on their own or in collaboration with competitors. Given these and other risks, our current and future collaborative efforts may not be successful. Failure of these efforts would materially adversely impact our ability to generate revenue from product sales, thereby decreasing the amount of cash from operations available to support our development efforts for our existing product candidates in development. Due to the high cost of our research and development activities, in particular the cost of clinical trials and preparation of an NDA for filing with the FDA for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, our inability to secure strategic partners or alternative strategic arrangements could limit our ability to continue developing ferumoxytol or force us to raise additional capital through alternative means which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. Any delay in, or termination of, any of our research and development projects due to insufficient funds resulting from lack of revenue from strategic partners or alternative capital raising or strategic arrangements would reduce our potential revenues and negatively impact our stock price. We may be unable to address the issues raised by the FDA in the March 2005 approvable letter with respect to Combidex, and we may not be able to obtain FDA approval for Combidex. Although we have received an approvable letter from the FDA with respect to Combidex, approval of Combidex remains very uncertain and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions imposed by the FDA and final resolution of labeling. We may be unable to address the conditions specified in the March 2005 approvable letter to the satisfaction of the FDA, or we may be unable to satisfy these conditions in a timely manner and/or without the expenditure of significant additional resources, both financial and managerial. Due to our limited resources and the priority we are placing on completion of the Phase III development program for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, we do not currently intend to sponsor additional clinical studies for Combidex. If we are unable to successfully address the concerns of the FDA in a timely manner, the NDA for Combidex may not be approved, or, if approved, may be approved for a limited or much narrower indication. If we are unable to obtain approval or are unable to obtain approval for our requested indication or if the FDA recommends labeling that imposes limitations on the use of Combidex, our partners’ ability to market the product to the medical community may be prevented or hindered. Any failure to successfully market and sell Combidex or any delay in these efforts would significantly impair or delay our ability to generate future revenues from product sales of Combidex, reduce the amount of cash generated from operations available to fund research and development or other activities and adversely impact the future prospects for our business. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Because of the specialized nature of our business, we are highly reliant on our executive officers, senior scientists, regulatory and clinical professionals, and manufacturing and quality control personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and President, Brian J.G. Pereira, MD, our Executive Chairman, Jerome Goldstein, and our VP of Scientific Operations, Jerome Lewis. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical, clinical, regulatory and sales and marketing personnel for the development activities conducted or sponsored by us, including our development program for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, or we fail to hire qualified people or lose the services of our key personnel, our product development efforts could be delayed or curtailed. For example, in order to achieve commercial success for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, we will have to either develop our own internal marketing and sales department, including a direct sales force, enter into a collaborative arrangement with a third party or parties to market and sell ferumoxytol, or otherwise contract for these services with a third party. If we market and sell ferumoxytol ourselves, we may not be able to successfully recruit and retain the qualified marketing and sales personnel that would be necessary to market and sell ferumoxytol. In addition, if we fail to attract and retain key members of our manufacturing or quality control departments, our ability to manufacture our products, or to manufacture our products in a timely and cost-effective manner, could be hindered and our product sales and development efforts delayed. 25 Furthermore, our expected expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as late-stage development and marketing and sales, will require the addition of new management personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel, which would increase our projected research and development costs and accelerate our need for additional financing. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could impose significant limits on our business operations and hinder our ability to successfully and efficiently complete our development projects. We cannot be certain that our products will be accepted in the marketplace. For a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, our products may not achieve market acceptance or become commercially successful. If our products do not receive market acceptance for any reason, it may limit sales of our products and reduce our revenues from royalties and direct sales, if any. The degree of market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: · the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our products; · our products’ potential advantage over existing treatments or diagnostic methods; and · reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors, including insurance companies. For example, even if we obtain regulatory approval to sell our products, physicians and health care payors could conclude that our products are not safe or effective and decide not to use them to treat patients. Our competitors may also develop new technologies or products which are more effective or less costly, or that are perceived as more effective or cost-effective than our products. Physicians, patients, third-party payors or the medical community in general may fail to accept or choose not to use any of the products that we develop. To date, we have not generated significant revenues on royalties from the sale of our approved products by our marketing partners, and these products have not achieved broad market acceptance. Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK, approved in 1996 and 1997, respectively, represented an alternative technology platform for physicians to adopt in MRI. Feridex I.V. sales have decreased from their peak based on changes in MRI technology and competition in the market, and we expect product sales of Feridex I.V. to remain at current low levels overall. Combidex, if approved, will represent a shift in the diagnostic process that physicians could use to stage and monitor cancer patients that may not be adopted by physicians. In addition, ferumoxytol, if approved as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, will represent an alternative to existing products or procedures that might not be adopted by the medical community, especially if it is perceived to not be as safe as other available products which are equally effective. If our approved products or future products are not adopted by physicians, revenues will be delayed or fail to materialize, and our ability to achieve profitability will be significantly adversely effected. Our success is dependent on third-party reimbursement. In both the United States and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. We expect that our products will be purchased by hospitals, clinics, dialysis centers, doctors and other users that bill various third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government insurance programs, and private payors including indemnity insurers and managed care organizations such as health maintenance organizations. Most of these third-party payors provide coverage for IV iron replacement therapeutics and for MRI for some indications but may not include a separate payment for the use of an MRI contrast agent. Third-party private payors often mirror Medicare coverage policy and 26 payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement payment and coverage policies. Reimbursement rates vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, the type of insurance plan and other factors. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to reform the health care system. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved healthcare products and products which have competitors for their approved indications. If Medicare or third-party payors do not approve our therapeutic products, MRI products and/or related MRI procedures for reimbursement, or do not approve them for adequate levels of reimbursement, the adoption of our products may be limited. Sales may suffer as some physicians or their patients will opt for a competing product that is approved for sufficient reimbursement, or some patients may forgo the treatment or MRI procedure instead of paying out-of-pocket for costs associated with the treatment or procedure and contrast agent, and our ability to generate revenue may be impaired. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, these payors’ reimbursement policies may be insufficient, which may negatively impact us and our corporate partners’ ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Health care reform is an area of continuing national and international attention and a priority of many government officials. Future changes could impose limitations on the prices that can be charged in the United States and elsewhere for our products or the amount of reimbursement available for our products from government agencies or third-party private payors. The increasing use of managed care organizations, health maintenance organizations and the growing trend in capitated coverage as well as continued legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our products which could harm our ability to profit from product sales. In addition, recent and possible future legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change reimbursement in ways adverse to us that may affect the marketing of our current or future products. While we cannot predict the likelihood of adoption of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals, if the government or a private third-party payor adopts these proposals, our ability to price our products at desired levels would be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets in the conduct of our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications. The breadth of the claims obtained in our patents may not provide significant protection for our technology. The degree of protection afforded by patents for licensed technologies or for future discoveries may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. The patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. Moreover, patents issued to us may be contested or invalidated. Future patent interference proceedings involving either our patents or patents of our licensors may harm our ability to commercialize our products. Claims of infringement or violation of the proprietary rights of others may be asserted against us. If we are required to defend against such claims or to protect our own proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial costs to us and distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could prevent us from marketing and selling our products, limit our development of our product candidates or harm our competitive position and result in additional significant costs. In addition, any successful claim of infringement asserted against us could subject us to monetary damages or injunction preventing us or our marketing partners from making or selling products. We also may be required to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 27 We currently hold approximately 19 U.S. patents and approximately 29 foreign patents, which expire between the years 2007 and 2020, some of which are subject to extension under FDA regulations. Because certain patents that cover our products will begin to expire in the coming years, the protection provided by these patents will also begin to expire. Our inability to commercialize our products prior to the expiration of our patents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. In the future, we may be required to obtain additional licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of others in order to commercialize our products or continue with our development efforts. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain such licenses could result in delays in marketing our products or our inability to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products or product candidates requiring such licenses. In addition, the termination of any of our existing licensing arrangements could impair our revenues and impose additional costs which could limit our ability to sell our products commercially. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In countries where we do not have or have not applied for patents on our products, we will be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the United States where we have patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our proprietary superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticle technology. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements, however, may be breached. We may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches, and our trade secrets might otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that an equivalent product will not be marketed in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. We are exposed to potential liability claims and we may not be able to maintain or obtain sufficient insurance coverage. We maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products and product candidates in clinical trials and commercial use. However, coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and costs may continue to increase significantly particularly as our development program for ferumoxytol continues, and we may not be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. Furthermore, our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage amounts to protect us against liability that could deplete our capital resources. We also may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any product approved for marketing in the future. Our insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability or cover costs resulting from product liability claims. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could reduce or eliminate our resources, whether or not the plaintiffs in such claims ultimately prevail. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and contractual agreements with our directors, and in order to attract competent candidates, we are obligated to indemnify our officers and directors against certain claims arising from their service to us. We maintain directors and officers’ liability insurance to cover such potential claims against our officers and directors. However, this insurance may not be adequate for certain claims and deductibles apply. As a result of our indemnification obligations and in instances where insurance coverage is not available or insufficient, any liability claim or series of claims brought against our officers or directors could deplete or exhaust our resources, regardless of the ultimate disposition of such claims. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. Because we use certain hazardous materials in the production of our products, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including 28 the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating the release or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, and such owner or operator may incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly the release or spill of, these substances could adversely affect the value of, and our ability to transfer or encumber, our real property. We may be unable to comply with continuing regulatory requirements even after our products have been approved for marketing. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continuing regulatory review. Noncompliance with the regulatory requirements of the approval process at any stage may result in adverse consequences, including the FDA’s withdrawal of an approved product from the market or, under certain circumstances, the imposition of criminal penalties. We may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining product approval, if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered. Any such adverse consequence could limit or preclude our ability to sell our products commercially which would hinder our ability to generate revenue through royalties or direct sales of our products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. 