Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If any of the events described below occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or which we currently deem to be immaterial, could also harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation regarding the conduct of our operations. If we fail to comply with any existing or new regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Overview. Companies such as ours that provide health care services are required to comply with many highly complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, those relating to the adequacy of medical care, billing for services, patient privacy, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and maintenance of records. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses to operate our facilities. We could also be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs that significantly contribute to our revenue. Many of the laws and regulations that govern our operations are relatively new and/or highly complex and, in certain cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of such laws and regulations, as well as modifications thereof, could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or capital expenditure programs. We are subject to “anti-kickback” and “self-referral” laws and regulations that provide for criminal and civil penalties if they are violated. The health care industry is subject to many laws and regulations designed to deter and prevent practices deemed by the government to be fraudulent or abusive. Unless an exception applies, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark law” prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of enumerated “designated health services” with whom the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be “self referrals” due to the physician’s financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated health care services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of the payment for the patient’s care. We systematically review our operations on a regular basis and believe that we are in compliance with the Stark law and similar state statutes. When evaluating strategic joint ventures or other collaborative relationships with physicians, we consider the scope and effect of these statutes and seek to structure the arrangements in full compliance with their provisions. We also maintain a company-wide compliance program in order to monitor and promote our continued compliance with these and other statutory prohibitions and requirements. Nevertheless, if it is determined that certain of our practices or operations violate the Stark law or similar statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. The imposition of any such penalties could harm our business. Providers in the hospital industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations and we could become subject to such investigations in the future. For the past several years, significant media and public attention has been focused on the hospital industry due to ongoing investigations related to referrals, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home health care services and physician ownership of joint ventures involving hospitals. Both federal and state government agencies have previously announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Moreover, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, established enforcement initiatives that focus on specific areas of suspected fraud and abuse. Recent initiatives included a focus on hospital billing practices. In March 2005, CMS implemented a three-year pilot recovery audit contractor program, commonly known as RAC, that covers providers in certain states where we operate hospitals. RAC auditors are independent contractors hired by CMS. Among other things, the auditors have been focusing on clinical documentation supporting billings under the Medicare program. If an auditor concludes that such documentation does not support the provider’s Medicare billings, CMS will revise the amount due to the provider, compare such amount to what was previously paid and withhold the difference from a current remittance. The affected facility can appeal the auditor’s decision through an administrative process. At the conclusion of the pilot demonstration program, a permanent program may be implemented that will include hospital providers throughout the country. 14 Table of Contents We closely monitor our billing and other hospital practices to maintain compliance with prevailing industry interpretations of applicable laws and regulations and we believe that our practices are consistent with those in our industry. However, government investigations could be initiated that are inconsistent with industry practices and prevailing interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In public statements, government authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation had been previously available. Some of those positions appear to be inconsistent with practices that have been common within our industry and, in some cases, they have not yet been challenged. Moreover, some government investigations that were previously conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under fraud and abuse laws. We cannot predict whether we will be the subject of future governmental investigations or inquiries. Any determination that we have violated applicable laws or regulations or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations could harm our business. We could fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding patient privacy and patient information security that could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. There have been numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security standards related to patient information. In particular, federal regulations issued under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, contain provisions that required us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business procedures designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and related financial information. Compliance with such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulation requirements to third parties that perform functions on our behalf. We are also required to make certain expenditures to help ensure our continued compliance with such laws and regulations and, in the future, such expenses could negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, if we were found to have violated or failed to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and our business could be harmed. We are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. In recent years, an increasing number of initiatives have been introduced or proposed at the federal and state level that would affect major changes in the health care delivery system. Among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. We cannot predict whether any health care reform proposals will be adopted. If adopted, such reforms could harm our business. If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid. The construction and operation of health care facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. In addition, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. Our hospitals (and substantially all of our laboratories and home health agencies) are accredited, meaning that they are properly licensed under appropriate state laws and regulations, certified under the Medicare program and accredited by The Joint Commission. The effect of maintaining accredited facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that all of our health care facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and independent review body regulations and standards. However, should any of our health care facilities lose their accredited status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be harmed. Because the requirements for accreditation are subject to modification, it may be necessary for us to affect changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services in order to maintain accreditation. Such changes could be expensive and could harm our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. The construction of new health care facilities, the acquisition of existing health care facilities and the addition of new beds or services at existing health care facilities may be reviewed by state regulatory agencies under certificate of need and similar laws. Except for Arkansas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Texas, all of the states in which our hospitals are located have certificate of need or similar laws. Such laws generally require appropriate state agency determination of public need and local agency approval prior to the addition of new beds or significant services to a hospital, or a related capital expenditure. Failure to obtain the necessary approvals in these states could (i) result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement; (ii) make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs; (iii) result in the revocation of a facility’s license; or (iv) impose civil and criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. Our operations are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements affecting us, include, but are not limited to, those covering (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (iv) hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties. We could fail to comply with the federal Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, or EMTALA, which could subject us to civil monetary penalties or cause us to be excluded from participation in the Medicare program. All of our facilities are subject to EMTALA which requires every hospital participating in the Medicare program to conduct a medical screening examination of each person presented for treatment at its emergency room. If a patient is suffering from an emergency medical condition, the hospital must either stabilize that condition or make an appropriate transfer of the patient to a facility that can handle the condition, regardless of the individual’s ability to pay for care. EMTALA imposes severe penalties if a hospital fails to screen, appropriately stabilize or transfer a patient, or if a hospital delays service while first inquiring about the patient’s ability to pay. Such penalties include, but are not limited to, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition to civil monetary penalties, an aggrieved patient, a patient’s family or a medical facility that ultimately suffers a financial loss as a direct result of a transferring hospital’s EMTALA violation can commence a civil suit under EMTALA. Although we believe that our facilities comply with EMTALA, there can be no assurances that claims will not be brought against us and, if successfully asserted against one or more of our hospitals, such claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased state regulation of the rates we charge for our services could harm our results of operations. We currently operate a hospital in West Virginia, a state that requires us to submit annual requests for increases to hospital charges. As a result, our ability to modify our rates in West Virginia to compensate for increased costs is limited. Accordingly, the operating margins for our West Virginia hospital may be adversely affected if we are unable to increase our rates as our expenses increase, or if the rates we charge are decreased as a result of regulatory action. If other states in which we operate enact similar rate-setting laws, those actions could harm our business. Continued growth in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients or further deterioration in the collectibility of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. The principal collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts required by the applicable agreement but patient responsibility amounts (e.g., deductibles, co-payments and other amounts not covered by insurance) remain outstanding. Our provision for doubtful accounts provides for, among other things, amounts due from such patients. The determination of the amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of historical cash collections and accounts receivable write-offs, expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer health care coverage and other relevant key indicators. If we continue to experience significant increases in uninsured and underinsured patients and/or uncollectible accounts receivable, our results of operations could be harmed. If the number of uninsured patients treated by our subsidiary hospitals increases, our results of operations may be harmed. In accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as the provisions of EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide further medical treatment as is required in order to stabilize the patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for the transfer of such individual to 16 Table of Contents another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital’s written procedures. If the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations may be harmed. If government programs or managed care companies reduce the payments we receive as reimbursement for the health care services we provide, our revenue could decline. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Changes in these government programs have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. Federal and state fiscal pressures may also affect the availability of taxpayer funds for the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, private payors, including managed care payors, are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through capitation arrangements. We expect continued third party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and enforce stringent cost controls. If reimbursement reductions or cost control initiatives are material, the payments we receive for the health care services we provide would be affected and our results of operations could be harmed. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenue. Controls imposed by third party payors that are designed to reduce admissions and the average length of hospital stays, commonly referred to as “utilization reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our operations. Utilization reviews entail an evaluation of a patient’s admission and course of treatment by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively impacted by payor-required pre-admission authorization, utilization reviews and payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Although we cannot predict the effect that these changes will have on our operations, limitations on the scope of services for which we are reimbursed and/or downward pressure on reimbursement rates and fees as a result of utilization reviews could harm our results of operations. Our substantial leverage has had and will continue to have a significant effect on our operations and may affect our ability to secure additional financing when needed. We completed a recapitalization of our balance sheet in March 2007, which is more fully described at Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.8 billion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations, as well as availability of $458.2 million under a new long-term revolving credit facility. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness or to secure additional capital resources to fund our growth strategies, as well as our ongoing programs for the renovation, expansion, construction and acquisition of long-lived capital assets, will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance. Those operating results may be affected by general economic, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. We believe that our future cash flow from operating activities, together with available financing arrangements and cash proceeds from business/asset sales, will be sufficient to fund our operating, strategic growth, capital expenditure and debt service requirements. However, if we fail to meet our financial obligations or if supplemental financing is not available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, our substantial leverage and debt service requirements could have other important consequences to us, including, but not limited to, the following: • Our new $3.25 billion senior secured credit facilities, which are described at Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, and the indentures governing our senior notes and our convertible senior subordinated notes contain, and any future debt obligations we incur will likely contain, covenants and restrictions that, among other things, require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. If we do not comply with these covenants or other financial covenants incorporated into those arrangements, an event of default may result, which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay our indebtedness immediately. Moreover, covenant violations could also subject us to higher interest and financing costs on our debt obligations and our credit ratings could be adversely affected. • In the event of a default under one or more of our debt arrangements, we may be forced to pursue alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling core assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effectuated on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that sufficient funds could be obtained to make required debt service payments. Additionally, a debt restructuring could subject us to higher interest and financing costs on our debt obligations. 17 Table of Contents • We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which could reduce the amount of discretionary funds available for our other operational needs and growth objectives. Specifically, the holders of our 1.50% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2023 have the unilateral right to require us to repurchase some or all of their notes, which aggregate approximately $574.7 million, on August 1, 2008 for a cash purchase price per note equal to 100% of the note’s principal face amount. • Part of our plan to enhance cash flow during 2008 and beyond are sales of (i) hospitals and other health care business units that no longer meet our long-term strategic objectives, (ii) certain corporate and hospital assets and (iii) the residual assets of our Discontinued Operations (as such entities are identified above under the heading “Acquisitions, Divestitures, Joint Ventures and Other Activity”). Additionally, we are considering joint venture syndications at certain of our hospitals to supplement our cash flow over the next year. There can be no assurances that we will successfully initiate and close any strategic transactions on satisfactory terms, if at all, or on a timely basis in order to make required debt service payments. • Because of our need for increased cash flow, we may be more vulnerable in the event of a deterioration of our business or changes in the health care industry or the economy in general. We are the subject of legal proceedings that, if resolved adversely, could have a harmful effect on us. We are a party to various ongoing legal proceedings, including certain stockholder class action lawsuits and a shareholder derivative action lawsuit. The material legal proceedings affecting us are described below in “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our current legal proceedings, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We may incur liabilities not covered by our insurance or which exceed our insurance limits. In the ordinary course of business, our subsidiary hospitals are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits and other legal actions. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. We self-insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks. We believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage and our self-insurance reserves are sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our subsidiary hospitals. However, if payments for claims and related expenses exceed our estimates or if payments are required to be made by us that are not covered by insurance, our business could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our facilities are heavily concentrated in Florida and Mississippi, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic and competitive changes in those states, as well as the harmful effects of hurricanes and other severe weather activity in such states. On February 22, 2008, we operated 58 hospitals, including 28 hospitals in Florida and Mississippi. Our corporate headquarters is also located in Florida. Such geographic concentration of our hospitals makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. Any material changes of those factors in Florida or Mississippi could have a disproportionate effect on our business. Additionally, regions in and around the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. As a result, these facilities are susceptible to physical damage and business interruptions from an active hurricane season or even a single severe storm. Even if our facilities are not directly damaged, we may experience considerable disruptions in our operations due to property damage experienced in the affected areas by our patients, physicians, payors, vendors and others. Additionally, long-term adverse weather conditions could cause an outmigration of people from the communities where our hospitals are located, which could have a harmful effect on our business and results of operations. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on joint ventures and acquisitions. However, we may not be able to form joint ventures or continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. We may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities or pursuing certain joint venture activity due to regulatory scrutiny and other restrictions. We pursue joint venture opportunities with physicians, other health care companies and providers for entire hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, medical office buildings and other health care services businesses. Our 18 Table of Contents ability to enter into certain types of joint venture arrangements that might otherwise form a part of our growth strategy is limited by, among other things, federal and state laws and regulations that restrict the types of joint ventures that may be formed between hospitals and physicians. If we encounter significant joint venture formation obstacles, our corresponding growth strategy could be adversely impacted. Acquisitions of general acute care hospitals in attractive non-urban markets are also an element of our overall growth strategy. We face competition for acquisition candidates and joint venture partners from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. In addition, many states have enacted, or from time to time consider enactment of, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. Moreover, attorney generals in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction wherein a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential buyers could make it more difficult for us to acquire hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. We may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations. Prior to their acquisition, most of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate. If we are unable to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers’ compensation liabilities, tax liabilities and liabilities for unacceptable business practices. Although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business. Other hospitals and freestanding outpatient facilities provide services similar to ours, which may raise the level of competition we face and adversely affect our results of operations. The health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers has intensified in recent years. In some of the geographic areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. Some of those competitor hospitals are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenue and others are owned by not-for-profit corporations and may be supported, in part, by endowments and charitable contributions. Such support is not available to our hospitals. In some cases, our competitors may be a significant distance away from our facilities; however, patients in our markets may migrate, may be referred by local physicians or may be required by their health plan to travel to these hospitals for care. Furthermore, some of our competitors may be better equipped than our hospitals and could offer a broader range of services than we do. Additionally, outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities (including many in which physicians have an ownership interest), outpatient surgical centers and freestanding ambulatory surgical centers have increased in number and accessibility in recent years. These trends have adversely affected our market share. If our hospitals are not able to effectively attract patients, our business could be harmed. It is difficult to predict the financial performance of a de novo hospital we construct and such facilities will take time to perform at the level of our other hospitals. De novo hospitals we construct, such as Physicians Regional Medical Center – Collier Boulevard, do not have operating histories. As a result, it is more difficult to predict their ultimate financial performance. Moreover, such hospitals incur significant start-up costs and develop their market share over time. Accordingly, de novo hospitals are expected to have a short-term dilutive effect on our earnings and they make it more difficult for us to precisely forecast our fiscal performance until such facilities mature. 19 Table of Contents Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. Physicians make admitting and other decisions regarding the appropriate course of patient treatment, which, in turn, affect hospital revenue. Therefore, the success of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with such physicians. In many instances, physicians are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of the markets that we serve, physicians have admitting privileges at hospitals other than our own. If we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations could be harmed. Additionally, we could find it difficult to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. Our inability to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby harm our results of operations. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. There are ongoing technological advances regarding computer-assisted tomography (“CT”) scanners, magnetic resonance imaging (“MRI”) equipment, positron emission tomography (“PET”) scanners and other similar equipment. In order to effectively compete, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. If our hospitals do not stay abreast of the technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources. Our hospitals face competition for medical support staff, including nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and other personnel, which may increase our labor costs and adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on our experienced medical support personnel, including nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, seasoned local hospital management and other medical personnel. We compete with other health care providers to recruit and ultimately retain these health care professionals. On a national level, a shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue for a number of health care providers. In the future, this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain such personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary and per diem personnel. Additionally, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. If our wages and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our reimbursement rates correspondingly. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or modulate our labor costs could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. We depend heavily on key management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and the efforts, ability and experience of key members of our local hospital management staffs. We do not maintain employment agreements with our corporate and local hospital management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or a significant portion of our local hospital management could significantly weaken our ability to efficiently deliver health care services, which could harm our business. Our business could be impaired by a failure of our proprietary information technology system. The performance of our proprietary management information system, known as the Pulse System®, is critical to our business operations. Any failure that causes a material interruption in the availability of the Pulse System® could adversely affect our operations or delay our cash collections. Although we have implemented network security measures, our servers could become vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, disruptions from unauthorized tampering and hurricane-related failures. Any of these circumstances could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or a general lack of availability of the Pulse System®, each of which could harm our business. 20 Table of Contents If the fair value of our reporting units declines, a material non-cash goodwill impairment charge could result. We have recorded a portion of the purchase price for many of our hospital acquisitions as goodwill. At December 31, 2007, we have approximately $910.1 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, exclusive of our Discontinued Operations, that we expect to recover through future cash flow. On a recurring basis, we evaluate the fair value of our reporting units to determine whether goodwill is impaired. Our goodwill impairment testing methodology is more fully described at Note 1(d) to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. If, in the future, our reporting units’ cash flows materially decrease and/or the fair values of our reporting units significantly decline, our goodwill could become impaired and we may incur a material non-cash charge in our results of operations. Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. Stock markets experience volatility that is often unrelated to operating performance. Broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. Moreover, if we are unable to operate our hospitals profitably or at the levels that our stockholders expect us to, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition to potentially unfavorable operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or cause the price of our common stock to substantially fluctuate, including certain of the risks discussed above, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, the severity of seasonal illnesses, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 