Item 1A. Risk Factors Downturns in the general economy or the commercial construction industry may adversely affect our revenues and operating results. General economic downturns, including downturns in the commercial construction industry, could result in a material decrease in our revenues and operating results. Demand for many of our products, especially in the commercial construction industry, is cyclical. Sales of our products are sensitive to the states of the U.S., foreign and regional economies in general, and in particular, changes in commercial construction spending and government infrastructure spending. In addition, many of our costs are fixed and cannot be quickly reduced in response to decreased demand. The following factors could cause a downturn in the commercial construction industry: a decrease in the availability of funds for construction; labor disputes in the construction industry causing work stoppages; rising gas and fuel oil prices; rising steel prices and steel-up charges; rising interest rates; energy or building materials shortages; and inclement weather. A decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance may cause our revenues and profits to decrease. Many of our customers depend substantially on government funding of highway construction and maintenance and other infrastructure projects. Any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance and other infrastructure projects could cause our revenues and profits to decrease. Federal government funding of infrastructure projects is usually accomplished through bills, which establish funding over a multi-year period. In August 2005, the President signed into law, the Safe Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act - A Legacy for Users ("SAFETEA-LU"), which authorizes the appropriation of $286.5 billion in guaranteed funding for federal highway, transit and safety programs. Although SAFETEA-LU guarantees federal funding at certain minimum levels, SAFETEA-LU and other legislation may be revised in future congressional sessions and federal funding of infrastructure may be decreased in the future, especially in the event of an economic reces sion. In addition, Congress could pass legislation in future sessions, which would allow for the diversion of highway funds for other national purposes or could restrict funding of infrastructure projects unless states comply with certain federal policies. The cyclical nature of our industry and the customization of the equipment we sell may cause adverse fluctuations to our revenues and operating results. We sell equipment primarily to contractors whose demand for equipment depends greatly upon the volume of road or utility construction projects underway or to be scheduled by both government and private entities. The volume and frequency of road and utility construction projects is cyclical; therefore, demand for many of our products is cyclical. The equipment we sell is durable and typically lasts for several years, which also contributes to the cyclical nature of the demand for our products. As a result, we may experience cyclical fluctuations to our revenues and operating results. An increase in the price of oil or decrease in the availability of oil could reduce demand for our products. Significant increases in the purchase price of certain raw materials used to manufacture our equipment could have a negative impact on the cost of production and related gross margins. A significant portion of our revenues relates to the sale of equipment that produces asphalt mix. A major component of asphalt is oil, and asphalt prices correlate with the price and availability of oil. An increase in the price of oil or a decrease in the availability of oil would increase the cost of producing asphalt, which would likely decrease demand for asphalt, resulting in decreased demand for our products. This would likely cause our revenues and profits to decrease. In fact, rising gasoline, diesel fuel and liquid asphalt prices during the last three years significantly impacted the operating and raw material costs of our contractor and aggregate producer customers, and if they did not properly adjust their pricing could have reduced their profits and caused delays in some of their capital equipment purchases. We were notified of and incurred steel price increases and steel surcharges beginning in early 2004. The pricing weakened in early 2005 and slowly increased over the latter part of 2005 and 2006. Factors contributing to the increased steel costs were: (1) China's strong economy and its increased steel consumption and purchase of U.S. scrap steel; (2) the weakened U.S. dollar's dissuasion of foreign steel exports to the U.S.; (3) shortages of coke and iron ore; and (4) increased demand for steel in Korea and the U.S. During early 2004, some types of steel were available on an allocation basis determined by prior year purchases, although currently needed steel is readily available. A portion of the increased steel costs has been passed to our customers by way of surcharges and price increases. Continued significant steel cost increases, in addition to potential limitation of the steel supply by mills, could negatively impact our gross margins and financial results. The Company expects steel prices will rise moderately during 2007 with supply being adequate. Acquisitions that we have made in the past and future acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our future financial results. We have completed ten acquisitions since 1994, one of which we disposed during 2004, and we may acquire additional businesses in the future. We may be unable to achieve the benefits expected to be realized from our acquisitions. In addition, we may incur additional costs and our management's attention may be diverted because of unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other risks inherent in acquiring businesses, including the following: we may have difficulty integrating the financial and administrative functions of acquired businesses; acquisitions may divert management's attention from our existing operations; we may have difficulty in competing successfully for available acquisition candidates, completing future acquisitions or accurately estimating the financial effect of any businesses we acquire; we may have delays in realizing the benefits of our strategies for an acquired business; we may not be able to retain key employees necessary to continue the operations of the acquired business; acquisition costs may deplete significant cash amounts or may decrease our operating income; we may choose to acquire a company that is less profitable or has lower profit margins than our company; and future acquired companies may have unknown liabilities that could require us to spend significant amounts of additional capital. Competition could reduce revenue from our products and services and cause us to lose market share. We currently face strong competition in product performance, price and service. Some of our national competitors have greater financial, product development and marketing resources than we have. If competition in our industry intensifies or if our current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, we may lose sales or be required to lower the prices we charge for our products. This may reduce revenue from our products and services, lower our gross margins or cause us to lose market share. Our success depends on key members of our management and other employees. Dr. J. Don Brock, our Chairman and President, is of significant importance to our business and operations. The loss of his services may adversely affect our business. In addition, our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers, skilled manufacturing personnel and other professionals, either through direct hiring or acquisition of other businesses employing such professionals, will also be an important factor in determining our future success. Difficulties in managing and expanding in international markets could divert management's attention from our existing operations. In 2006, international sales represented approximately 27.0% of our total sales. We plan to continue to increase our presence in international markets. In connection with any increase in international sales efforts, we will need to hire, train and retain qualified personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory barriers may exist. Any difficulties in expanding our international sales may divert management's attention from our existing operations. In addition, international revenues are subject to the following risks: fluctuating currency exchange rates which can reduce the profitability of foreign sales; the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; dependence on foreign sales agents; political and economic instability of governments; and the imposition of protective legislation such as import or export barriers. We may be unsuccessful in complying with the financial ratio covenants or other provisions of our amended credit agreement. As of December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement dated as of May 14, 2003, as amended. However, in the future we may be unable to comply with the financial covenants in our credit facility. If such violations occur, the lenders could elect to pursue their contractual remedies under the credit facility, including requiring immediate repayment in full of all amounts then outstanding. Additionally, this agreement expires in May 2007. We are currently involved in negotiations to secure a new credit arrangement; however the possibility exists that we may be unable to secure adequate or timely replacement of our existing financing to repay our lenders in the event of an unanticipated repayment demand or expiration of the agreement. As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately $5,990,000 of letters of credits outstanding and $322,000 of guarantees outstanding under our Canadian credit agreement. No other loans were outstanding under this credit agreement; amounts may be borrowed in the future, however. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which may decrease our stock price. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. As a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some quarters, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The reasons our quarterly results may fluctuate include: general competitive and economic conditions; delays in, or uneven timing in, the delivery of customer orders; the seasonal trend in our industry; the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; product supply shortages; and reduced demand due to adverse weather conditions. Period-to-period comparisons of such items should not be relied on as indications of future performance. We may face product liability claims or other liabilities due to the nature of our business. If we are unable to obtain or maintain insurance or if our insurance does not cover liabilities, we may incur significant costs which could reduce our profitability. We manufacture heavy machinery, which is used by our customers at excavation and construction sites and on high-traffic roads. Any defect in, or improper operation of, our equipment can result in personal injury and death, and damage to or destruction of property, any of which could cause product liability claims to be filed against us. The amount and scope of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in the event of a product liability claim. We may not be able to maintain insurance of the types or at the levels we deem necessary or adequate or at rates we consider reasonable. Any liabilities not covered by insurance could reduce our profitability or have an adverse effect on our financial condition. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology from infringement or if our technology infringes technology owned by others, then the demand for our products may decrease or we may be forced to modify our products which could increase our costs. We hold numerous patents covering technology and applications related to many of our products and systems, and numerous trademarks and trade names registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in foreign countries. Our existing or future patents or trademarks may not adequately protect us against infringements, and pending patent or trademark applications may not result in issued patents or trademarks. Our patents, registered trademarks and patent applications, if any, may not be upheld if challenged, and competitors may develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of our patents. This could reduce demand for our products and materially decrease our revenues. If our products are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify the design of our products, change the name of our products or obtain a license for the use of some of the technologies used in our products. We may be unable to do any of the foregoing in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could cause us to incur additional costs or lose revenues. If we become subject to increased governmental regulation, we may incur significant costs. Our hot-mix asphalt plants contain air pollution control equipment that must comply with performance standards promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency. These performance standards may increase in the future. Changes in these requirements could cause us to undertake costly measures to redesign or modify our equipment or otherwise adversely affect the manufacturing processes of our products. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Also, due to the size and weight of some of the equipment that we manufacture, we often are required to comply with conflicting state regulations on the maximum weight transportable on highways and roads. In addition, some states regulate the operation of our component equipment, including asphalt mixing plants and soil remediation equipment, and most states regulate the accuracy of weights and measures, which affect some of the control systems we manufacture. We may incur material costs or liabilities in connection with the regulatory requirements applicable to our business. As an innovative leader in the asphalt and aggregate industries, we occasionally undertake the engineering, design, manufacturing and construction of equipment systems that are new to the market. Estimating the cost of such innovative equipment can be difficult and could result in our realization of significantly reduced or negative margins on such projects. In the past, we have experienced negative margins on certain large, specialized aggregate systems projects. These large contracts included both existing and innovative equipment designs, on-site construction and minimum production levels. Since it can be difficult to achieve the expected production results during the project design phase, field testing and redesign may be required during project installation, resulting in added cost. In addition, due to any number of unforeseen circumstances, which can include adverse weather conditions, projects can incur extended construction and testing delays which can cause significant cost overruns. We may not be able to sufficiently predict the extent of such unforeseen cost overruns and may experience significant losses on specialized projects. Our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, Rights Agreement and Tennessee law may inhibit a takeover, which could delay or prevent a transaction in which shareholders might receive a premium over market price for their shares. Our charter, bylaws and Tennessee law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition or an attempt to obtain control of us. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if a substantial number or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us or obtaining control of us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition or an attempt to obtain control of us include the following: having a staggered Board of Directors; requiring a two-thirds vote of the total number of shares issued and outstanding to remove directors other than for cause; requiring advance notice of actions proposed by shareholders for consideration at shareholder meetings; limiting the right of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; requiring that all shareholders entitled to vote on an action provide written consent in order for shareholders to act without holding a shareholders' meeting; and being governed by the Tennessee Control Share Acquisition Act. In addition, the rights of holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future and that may be senior to the rights of holders of our common stock. In December 2005, our Board of Directors approved an Amended and Restated Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement, which provides for one preferred stock purchase right in respect of each share of our common stock ("Rights Agreement"). These rights become exercisable upon the acquisition by a person or group of affiliated persons, other than an existing 15% shareholder, of 15% or more of our then-outstanding common stock by all persons. This Rights Agreement also could discourage bids for the shares of common stock at a premium and could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 