ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: The following is a summary description of some of the material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following statements should be carefully considered in evaluating us. We are solely dependent on the success of Feraheme. We are currently investing most of our efforts and financial resources in the development and commercialization of Feraheme. Our ability to generate future revenues is solely dependent on our ability to obtain marketing approval for and successfully commercialize Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent in the U.S. If we are unable to generate revenues from Feraheme, our financial condition will be materially adversely affected and our business prospects will be very limited. Although we have dedicated significant resources to development efforts in the past, we may not be successful in developing new applications for our existing technology or in expanding the potential indications for Feraheme. Although we have commenced additional clinical trials for Feraheme in indications other than CKD in an effort to expand the potential indications for Feraheme, we are not currently conducting or sponsoring research to expand our product development pipeline beyond Feraheme. Any failure by us to acquire, develop and commercialize additional products and product candidates or additional indications for Feraheme would limit long-term shareholder value and would adversely affect the future prospects of our business. We currently have two products, Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK, approved for marketing and sale in the U.S. and in certain foreign jurisdictions. However, we recently ceased the manufacture of Feridex I.V. and have terminated all of our agreements with our marketing partners for Feridex I.V. throughout the world. In addition, sales of GastroMARK by our marketing partners have been at their current levels for the last several years, and we do not expect sales of GastroMARK to materially increase. We may experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval for Feraheme or we may never receive regulatory approval for the marketing and commercial sale of Feraheme in the U.S. or elsewhere. FDA approval of Feraheme may be significantly delayed or may never occur for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to the following: •The FDA may determine that Feraheme is not safe or efficacious; •We may not be able to adequately address the issues raised in the December 2008 Complete Response letter received by the FDA in a timely manner, if at all; •The FDA may identify deficiencies in the design, implementation or oversight of our clinical development program or manufacturing operations, which we may not be able to adequately address in a timely manner, if at all; or •The FDA may require additional information which we may not be able to provide in a timely manner, if at all. The FDA imposes substantial requirements on the development, production and commercial introduction of all drug products. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial marketing and sale of Feraheme, we must demonstrate through extensive pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials that Feraheme is safe and efficacious. In December 2007, we submitted our NDA to the FDA for marketing approval of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients. In October 2008, we received a Complete Response letter from the FDA with respect to our NDA for Feraheme requesting certain additional clinical information, information regarding certain observations noted during a recent FDA inspection at one of our Phase III clinical sites, and resolution of certain deficiencies noted 25 Table of Contents during a recent FDA inspection of our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. We submitted a response to the Complete Response letter in October 2008, and in December 2008 we received a second Complete Response letter from the FDA requesting data to clarify a specific CMC question, resolution of the deficiencies observed during the recent FDA recent inspection of our manufacturing facility, and finalization of labeling discussions for Feraheme. If we are unable to adequately address the issues raised or provide the information requested by the FDA with respect to our NDA in a timely manner, we may experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval for Feraheme or Feraheme may not receive approval at all. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that the data in our NDA, including any information we provide in our reply to the December 2008 Complete Response letter, is insufficient for approval. The FDA may review our data and determine that Feraheme is not efficacious and/or does not have an acceptable safety profile. Clinical and other data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. The FDA could also determine that our pre-clinical studies, our clinical trials and/or our manufacturing processes were not properly designed, were not conducted in accordance with federal laws and regulations, or were otherwise not properly managed. In addition, under the FDA's cGCP regulations, we are responsible for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA may conduct inspections of clinical investigator sites, which were involved in our clinical development programs to ensure their compliance with cGCP regulations. If the FDA determines that we, our contract research organizations or our study sites failed to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may disqualify certain data generated from those sites or require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain approval for Feraheme. Any such deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of our clinical development program identified by the FDA could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for Feraheme, or even prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for Feraheme. This would, in turn, materially adversely impact our cash position, our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business. We may not be able to adequately address the deficiencies identified by the FDA during the recent inspection of our manufacturing facility or operate our manufacturing facility in compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other FDA regulations, which could result in a substantial delay in the approval of Feraheme, a suspension of our ability to manufacture Feraheme, the loss of our existing Feraheme inventory, or other unanticipated compliance costs. Our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility is subject to cGMP regulations enforced by the FDA. The FDA conducts periodic inspections of our manufacturing facility to determine whether we are in compliance with cGMP and other FDA regulations. Based on these inspections, the FDA may issue notices that require us to modify our manufacturing operations. Failure to operate in compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various regulatory agencies could result in the FDA's issuance of a Warning Letter, fines, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, suspension of the FDA's review of an NDA or future supplemental NDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution and could impair our ability to obtain product approvals, generate product sales and continue our development efforts. 26 Table of Contents In October 2008, the FDA completed an on-site inspection of our manufacturing facility. At the completion of the inspection, the FDA noted certain deficiencies observed during the inspection with respect to our compliance with cGMP regulations. We will need to address the deficiencies noted by the FDA in a timely and satisfactory manner in order to obtain approval to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. In November 2008 we submitted a response to each of the FDA's inspectional observations. If our response and our proposed remedial measures do not adequately address the FDA's observations, the FDA may take one or more of the regulatory actions described above, which could result in a substantial delay in the approval of Feraheme, a suspension of our ability to manufacture Feraheme, or the loss of our existing Feraheme inventory, or other unanticipated compliance expenditures, any of which would have an adverse impact on our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. In addition, if the FDA decides to re-inspect our manufacturing facility to confirm the remedial measures we have implemented are adequate, the FDA may identify new or additional deficiencies with respect to our compliance with cGMP regulations. If the FDA were to identify additional cGMP deficiencies, the FDA could take one or more of the regulatory actions described above, which could result in a substantial delay in the approval of Feraheme, a suspension of our ability to manufacture Feraheme, or the loss of our existing Feraheme inventory, or other unanticipated compliance expenditures, any of which would have an adverse impact on our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. We need to maintain, and possibly increase our manufacturing capabilities or establish and qualify second source manufacturing facilities in order to successfully commercialize Feraheme. We currently manufacture GastroMARK for commercial sale and Feraheme for potential commercial use and for use in human clinical trials in our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. We also intend to use this facility to manufacture Feraheme for commercial sale if and when it is approved by the FDA. Although we have begun the work to establish and qualify second source manufacturing facilities for Feraheme, we currently have only one manufacturing facility at which we produce limited quantities of Feraheme. We have been manufacturing large scale commercial lots of Feraheme for the last several months, but as we continue to manufacture Feraheme in larger volumes for commercial sale, we could experience higher than anticipated material, labor and overhead costs per unit. Additionally, manufacturing and quality control problems may arise as we increase our level of production. We may not be able to continue to increase our manufacturing capacity in a timely and cost-effective manner to meet demand for Feraheme if and when it is approved by the FDA, and we may experience delays in manufacturing Feraheme, which could result in a shortage in the supply of Feraheme. Furthermore, we will need to continue to recruit, train and retain additional qualified manufacturing and quality control personnel as we prepare for production of Feraheme on a commercial scale. If we fail to continue to attract and retain key members of our manufacturing or quality control departments, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme in a timely manner, which could delay or impair our product sales and development efforts. In determining the required quantities of our products and the related manufacturing schedule, we will also need to make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends, anticipated sales, and other factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amount of product need. Any difference between our estimates and the actual amount of product demand could result in unmet demand or excess inventory, each of which would adversely impact our financial results and business prospects. Although we are working to establish and qualify second source manufacturing facilities for Feraheme, we may not be able to enter into agreements with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Furthermore, use of second-source manufacturing facilities may increase the 27 Table of Contents risk of certain problems, including cost overruns, process reproducibility, stability issues, the inability to deliver required quantities of product that conform to specifications in a timely manner, or the inability to manufacture Feraheme in accordance with cGMP. If we are unable to consistently manufacture our products on a timely basis because of these or other factors, we will not be able to meet anticipated demand for Feraheme. As a result, we may lose sales and fail to generate increased revenues, which would have a severe adverse impact on our potential profitability and future business prospects. Our inability to obtain raw materials and our reliance on sole source suppliers could adversely impact our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme, which would have a severe adverse impact on our business. We currently purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture Feraheme from third-party suppliers. We do not have any long-term supply contracts with these third-parties. Some of these raw materials are procured from a single source with no qualified alternative supplier. We are in the process of identifying additional third-party suppliers for these raw materials. Third-party suppliers may cease to produce the raw materials used in Feraheme or otherwise fail to supply these raw materials to us or fail to supply these raw materials to us in sufficient quantities for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following: •Unexpected demand for or shortage of the raw materials; •Labor disputes or shortages; •Manufacturing difficulties; •Regulatory requirements or action; •Adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier; or •Import or export problems. If any of our third-party suppliers cease to supply our raw materials for any reason, we would be unable to manufacture Feraheme or unable to manufacture Feraheme in sufficient quantities until we are able to qualify an alternative source. The qualification of an alternative source may require repeated testing of the new materials and generate greater expenses to us if materials that we test do not perform in an acceptable manner. In addition, we sometimes obtain raw materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high quality standards imposed on our raw materials, we may not be able to obtain raw materials of the quality required to manufacture our products, including Feraheme, from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain raw materials from an alternative source, if these raw materials are not available in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we would be unable to manufacture Feraheme, both for commercial sale and for use in our clinical trials, on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any such difficulty in obtaining raw materials would severely hinder our ability to manufacture Feraheme and would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues and to achieve profitability. 28 Table of Contents The commercial success of Feraheme will depend upon the degree of its market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, and the two major operators of dialysis clinics in the U.S. For a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, Feraheme may not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, or healthcare payors or providers, including dialysis clinics. If Feraheme does not achieve an adequate level of market acceptance for any reason, our potential profitability and our future business prospects would be severely adversely impacted. Feraheme will represent an alternative to existing products and might not be adopted by the medical community if perceived to be no safer or more effective than currently available products. The degree of market acceptance of Feraheme will depend on a number of factors, including: •Our ability to demonstrate to the medical community, particularly nephrologists, hematologists, dialysis clinics and others who may purchase or prescribe Feraheme, the clinical efficacy and safety of Feraheme as an alternative to current treatments for IDA in both dialysis and non-dialysis CKD patients; •The adequacy of third-party coding, insurance coverage and reimbursement for Feraheme from payors, including government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private payors, particularly in light of the expected "bundling" of costs of providing care to dialysis patients; •The timing of market entry of Feraheme relative to competitive treatments; •The relative price of Feraheme as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents; •The actual or perceived convenience and ease of administration of Feraheme as compared to alternative iron therapeutic agents; •The actual or perceived safety profile of Feraheme relative to alternative iron therapeutic agents; •The Feraheme labeling and product insert required by the FDA; •The availability of generic iron preparations; and •The effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Currently IV iron therapeutic products are not widely used by physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients in the physician's office setting due to safety concerns and the inconvenience and often impracticability of administering currently approved IV iron therapeutic products in that setting. A key component of our commercialization strategy is to develop a market for IV iron replacement therapeutics, specifically Feraheme, in the non-dialysis CKD market. Therefore, if approved, it will be critical for us to successfully market and sell Feraheme to physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients in the physician's office setting. It is often difficult to change physicians' existing treatment paradigms even when supportive clinical data is available. If we are not successful in marketing and selling Feraheme, if and when approved, to physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients in the physician's office setting, our ability to generate revenues, achieve and maintain profitability, and long-term business prospects would be adversely affected. The dialysis market is the largest and most established market for IV iron replacement therapies, with two companies serving a significant majority of all dialysis patients in the U.S. Fresenius and DaVita together treat more than 60% of the U.S. dialysis population. If we are unable to successfully market and sell Feraheme to physicians who treat dialysis dependent CKD patients in clinics controlled by either or both of Fresenius and DaVita, our ability to realize and grow revenues from sales of Feraheme will be severely limited, which would have a material adverse impact on our potential profitability, and our future business prospects. In addition, in September 2008, Fresenius finalized an exclusive sublicense agreement with Luitpold, the U.S. licensing partner of Vifor Pharma, a subsidiary of Galenica, to manufacture, sell and distribute Venofer®, an existing IV iron replacement therapeutic, to independent outpatient dialysis clinics in the U.S. Luitpold retains the right to sell Venofer® in the 29 Table of Contents U.S. to any other customer. In 2008, Galenica, Vifor Pharma and Fresenius also entered into a strategic joint-venture, which became effective on January 1, 2009, to market and distribute the IV iron products Venofer® and Ferinject® in the dialysis market in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. Fresenius has significant experience selling and distributing dialysis equipment and supplies to outpatient dialysis clinics and, as a result of this agreement, it may be more difficult for us to penetrate the dialysis market, in particular at Fresenius clinics. Our ability to generate future revenues from Feraheme will depend heavily on our ability to obtain and maintain satisfactory insurance coverage, coding, and reimbursement for Feraheme. Our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme will depend on the adequacy of insurance coverage, coding, and reimbursement for Feraheme from third-party payors, including governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private payors. Payors generally have discretion whether and how to cover new pharmaceutical products, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to convince payors to cover Feraheme. We expect that Feraheme will be purchased by hospitals, clinics, dialysis centers, physicians and other users, each of which generally relies on third-party payors to reimburse them or their patients for pharmaceutical products administered in the hospital, clinic, dialysis center and physician-office settings. Public and private insurance coverage and reimbursement plans are therefore central to new product acceptance, with customers unlikely to use Feraheme if they do not receive adequate reimbursement. If we fail to demonstrate the clear clinical and/or comparative value of Feraheme as compared to existing therapeutics, Feraheme may not be adequately reimbursed. This could result in lower sales of Feraheme, which would have a material adverse effect on us and the results of our operations. In the U.S. there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to reform the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell Feraheme profitably. As a result of these reimbursement and legislative proposals, and the trend toward managed health care in the U.S., third-party payors, including government and private payors, are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. These cost-containment methods may include, but are not limited to, using formularies, which are lists of approved or preferred drugs, requiring prior authorization, utilizing variable co-payments, or refusing to provide coverage of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. With respect to Feraheme, Medicare currently reimburses for physician-administered drugs in the dialysis center and physician clinic at a rate of 106% of the drug's average selling price, or ASP. If the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, or its local contractor, believe that Feraheme's ASP is too high, it may attempt to initiate one or more of the cost-containment methods discussed above at either the national or local level. It is highly uncertain whether the ASP reimbursement methodology will continue to apply if and when Feraheme is approved by the FDA, and any changes in reimbursement policies may have a negative impact on the level of reimbursement available for Feraheme. On July 15, 2008, Congress enacted MIPPA, which created a bundled payment system for the treatment of ESRD to take effect on January 1, 2011. MIPPA requires CMS to begin a process of moving from a system in which it pays separately for physician-administered drugs for dialysis patients to a system in which all costs of providing care to dialysis patients are bundled together into a single capitated payment beginning on January 1, 2011 and to complete the phase-in by January 1, 2014. This bundled approach to reimbursement may lower utilization of physician-administered drugs in the ESRD market. In addition, the bundled approach to reimbursement in the dialysis setting may lower the amount of reimbursement available for Feraheme and consequently put downward pressure on the price we can charge for Feraheme. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to successfully market and sell Feraheme in the dialysis setting. While MIPPA applies only to Medicare, private payors and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting their own reimbursement 30 Table of Contents methodologies. Any change in the Medicare reimbursement rate would therefore likely result in changes to payment rates from non-Medicare payors as well, further limiting our ability to successfully market and sell Feraheme. In addition, for providers to obtain reimbursement for Feraheme from Medicare, Medicaid and certain third-party payers, select codes must be submitted by the provider with each claim. These codes are issued to manufacturers at the discretion of CMS. Certain codes may also be issued by CMS at the request of a provider or Medicare Administrative Contractor. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining the appropriate codes for Feraheme, and our inability to obtain these codes could complicate provider reimbursement and have a material negative impact on Feraheme utilization and sales. To the extent we sell our products internationally, market acceptance may also depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within existing healthcare payment systems. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside of the U.S., the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of healthcare costs of patients and therefore enjoys significant market power. Some foreign countries also set prices for pharmaceutical products as part of the regulatory process, and we cannot guarantee that the prices set by such governments will be sufficient to generate substantial revenues in those countries. We have limited marketing and sales experience, and any failure on our part to effectively execute our Feraheme commercial plans would have a severe adverse impact on our business. We have never marketed or sold a drug product as we have relied on our corporate partners to market and sell our current approved products, Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK. In preparation for the planned U.S. commercial launch of Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent in CKD patients, we have built an internal sales and marketing function, including a direct sales force, in the U.S. Developing an internal marketing team and sales force is expensive and time-consuming. In addition, we have and continue to expend substantial amounts of capital to prepare for the U.S. commercial launch of Feraheme before we know whether the FDA has approved the marketing and sale of Feraheme. If Feraheme is not approved by the FDA or is not approved in a timely manner, we may not have the ability to redeploy the sales force, and we will have no way to recoup the capital expended in building the sales force and commercial organization. Competition for experienced and skilled marketing and sales personnel is intense, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals to successfully promote Feraheme. If we are unsuccessful in developing an effective sales and marketing function, then our marketing efforts and our planned product launch of Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent could be delayed or the commercialization of Feraheme could be severely impaired. Furthermore, we may not be successful in marketing and selling Feraheme. Factors that may adversely impact our ability to effectively market and sell Feraheme include: •Our inability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of qualified sales and marketing personnel; •The inability of our sales personnel to obtain access to and persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe or use Feraheme; •A lack of complementary products that can be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with larger product lines; and •Unforeseen costs and expenses associated with maintaining a sales and marketing organization. 31 Table of Contents Any delay or failure in our commercial product launch of Feraheme would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects for our business. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries is intense. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are or are perceived to be more effective, safer, more convenient or have more favorable pricing, insurance coverage, coding and reimbursement than Feraheme, our commercial opportunity for Feraheme will be adversely impacted. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid technological change. Most of our competitors which are developing iron replacement therapeutic products have greater financial resources, experience and expertise in product development, manufacturing, marketing and sales than we do. Our Feraheme commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are or are perceived to be safer, more effective, and/or easier to administer, or have more favorable pricing, insurance coverage, coding and reimbursement than Feraheme. In addition, any significant delays in FDA approval or U.S. commercial launch of Feraheme could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme. There are currently two options for treating IDA in CKD patients: oral iron supplements and IV iron. We anticipate that, if approved, Feraheme will primarily compete with existing IV iron replacement therapies, including Venofer®, which is marketed by Fresenius and American Regent, a subsidiary of Luitpold, Ferrlecit®, which is marketed by Watson, and certain oral iron products. These competing iron replacement therapy products may receive greater market acceptance than Feraheme, especially since these products are already on the market and are currently widely used by physicians. We may not be able to convince physicians to switch from using the currently approved IV iron therapeutic products to Feraheme. The iron replacement therapy market is highly sensitive to several factors including, but not limited to, the ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage, coding and reimbursement, price competitiveness, and product characteristics such as convenience of administration and dosing regimens. In particular, the IV iron replacement market is extremely sensitive to the perceived relative safety profiles of the various IV iron replacement therapeutics, and it will be critical that Feraheme's safety profile is or is perceived to be comparable to that of other products in order to be competitive in the marketplace. To date, we have not conducted any head-to-head clinical studies comparing the relative safety profiles of Feraheme to other IV iron replacement products. In addition to the foregoing currently marketed products, there are several iron replacement therapy products in various stages of clinical and commercial development in the U.S. and abroad, including VIT-45, also known as Ferinject® in Europe or Injectafer® in the U.S., and SFP, a form of iron given as part of the hemodialysis procedure. Galenica, through its Vifor (International) Inc. subsidiary, exclusively licenses Injectafer® to Luitpold and American Regent for the United States and Canada. Injectafer® is in development for a variety of anemia-related indications, including the treatment of anemia in CKD patients, whether or not on dialysis. In addition, Luitpold is sponsoring ongoing Phase III trials for Ferinject® in cardiology (chronic heart failure), irritable bowel disease, orthopedic surgery and post partum anemia. In June 2007, the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency approved the registration of Ferinject®, and it was simultaneously registered in a total of 18 EU countries. Ferinject® is currently marketed in eight European countries. In March 2008, Luitpold received a non-approvable letter from the FDA for Injectafer® for the treatment of IDA in postpartum women and women with heavy uterine bleeding in the U.S. Luitpold has expanded ongoing clinical trials and is initiating three further clinical trials to provide additional data addressing the concerns of the FDA. Luitpold expects these trials to take two years to complete prior to filing an NDA in the U.S. 32 Table of Contents Rockwell is developing an iron supplemented dialysate product, SFP, a form of iron given as part of the hemodialysis procedure to be used as a treatment for anemia in dialysis patients. Rockwell is currently conducting Phase IIb clinical trials and sponsoring an on-going study funded by the National Institutes of Health. We do not know when an NDA for SFP might be submitted to the FDA for approval or when SFP may be marketed in the U.S. SFP, if shown to be safe and effective for the treatment of IDA, could compete with IV iron products, including Feraheme. Pharmacosmos A/S has also completed a non-comparative open-label Phase III study of IV iron oligosaccharide in CKD patients. No additional studies are known to be on-going, and their future development plans have not been publicly disclosed. In addition to competition from currently approved products and products known by us to be currently under development, the market opportunity for Feraheme would be negatively affected if generic IV iron replacement therapy products were to be approved and achieve commercial success. For example, in June 2008, Hospira reported opening a bioequivalence study for a generic iron sucrose. As of January 2009, the study was not complete and was not actively recruiting patients. Companies that manufacture generic products typically invest far less resources in research and development than the manufacturer of a branded product and can therefore price their products significantly lower than those already on the market. It remains unclear whether a generic product will enter this market. If any of these product candidates are approved for marketing and sale by the FDA our efforts to market and sell Feraheme, if approved, and our ability to generate additional revenues and achieve profitability would be adversely affected. Further technological and product developments may also make new iron replacement therapy products more competitive than IV iron products, adversely impacting our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme. Feraheme, if approved, will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review, and if we fail to comply with such continuing regulations we could be subject to penalties up to and including the suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of Feraheme. If approved, Feraheme will remain subject to FDA regulatory requirements and review pertaining to its manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping. If we fail to comply with such regulatory requirements, we could be subject to sanctions, including but not limited to Warning Letters, civil or criminal penalties, injunctions, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, temporary or permanent closing of our manufacturing facilities, requirements to communicate with physicians and other customers about concerns related to actual or potential safety, efficacy, or other issues involving Feraheme, restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing or sale of Feraheme, recalls or a refusal by the FDA to consider or approve applications for additional indications, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability. Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise for Feraheme even after FDA approval, resulting in recalls, restrictions in Feraheme's label, or withdrawal of Feraheme from the market. Discovery of previously unknown problems with an approved product may result in recalls, restrictions on the product's permissible uses, or withdrawal of the product from the market. The data submitted to the FDA as part of our NDA was obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. If approved, new safety or drug interaction issues may arise as Feraheme is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients taking numerous other medicines and with additional underlying health problems. These new safety or drug interaction issues may require us to provide additional warnings on the Feraheme label or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of Feraheme. In addition, if significant safety or drug interaction issues arise, 33 Table of Contents FDA approval for Feraheme could be withdrawn, and the FDA could require the recall of all existing Feraheme in the marketplace. The FDA also has the authority to require the recall of our products if there is contamination or other problems with manufacturing, transport or storage of the product. A government-mandated recall, or a voluntary recall, could divert managerial and financial resources, could be difficult and costly to correct, could result in the suspension of sales of Feraheme, and would have a severe adverse impact on our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. We may also be required to conduct certain post-approval clinical studies to assess known or suspected significant risks associated with Feraheme. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or the FDAAA, expanded the FDA's authority. Under the FDAAA, the FDA may: (i) require manufacturers to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess known risks or signals of serious risks, or to identify unexpected serious risks; (ii) mandate labeling changes to a product based on new safety information; or (iii) require sponsors to implement REMS where necessary to assure safe use of the drug. If we are required to conduct post-approval clinical studies or implement REMS, or if the FDA changes the label for Feraheme to include additional discussion of potential safety issues, such requirements or restrictions would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues from sales of Feraheme, or require us to expend significant additional funds on clinical studies. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has ranged between $18.33 and $52.50 in the fifty-two week period through February 16, 2009. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Various factors and events, many of which are beyond our control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Factors which may affect the market price of our common stock, among others, include: •General market conditions; •Public announcements of regulatory actions with respect to Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •The availability of reimbursement coverage for Feraheme and changes in the reimbursement policies of governmental or private payors; •Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •Changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •Sales of large blocks of our common stock; •Loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel; •The results of clinical trials for Feraheme or potentially competitive products or product candidates; •The acquisition or development of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; •Developments in patents or other proprietary rights by us or our competitors; •Public concern regarding the safety of Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •The initiation of litigation to enforce or defend any of our assets; and •Significant collaboration, acquisition, joint venture or similar agreements by us or our competitors. 34 Table of Contents For example, any announcement of any positive or negative developments with respect to our efforts to obtain FDA approval to market and sell Feraheme, or our competitors' efforts to obtain FDA approval for competitive product candidates, would likely have a dramatic impact on our stock price. Thus, as a result of events both within and beyond our control, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or lose value rapidly. The current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. In recent quarters, the U.S. and global economies have taken a dramatic downturn as a result of the deterioration in the credit markets and related financial crisis, as well as a variety of other factors including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. The U.S. and certain foreign governments have recently taken unprecedented actions in an attempt to address and rectify these extreme market and economic conditions by providing liquidity and stability to the financial markets. If the actions taken by the U.S. and other governments are not successful, the continued economic decline may continue to negatively affect the liquidity of our investments, significantly impact our ability to raise capital, if needed, on a timely basis and on acceptable terms or at all, and cause our investments to substantially decline in value. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash position and the potential future prospects of our business. In addition, we rely and intend to rely on third-parties, including our clinical research organizations, third-party manufacturers, and certain other important vendors and consultants. As a result of the current volatile and unpredictable global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors and suppliers. If such third-parties are unable to adequately satisfy their contractual commitments to us in a timely manner, our business could be severely adversely affected. Our ability to generate and grow revenues from the sale of Feraheme will be limited if we do not obtain approval or if we experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval to market Feraheme for additional indications in the U.S. or if we do not obtain approval to market Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S. The NDA we submitted to the FDA in December 2007 requests approval to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients, whether or not on dialysis. We are conducting and plan to conduct additional clinical trials and seek regulatory approval to market Feraheme in indications other than CKD. Before we can obtain approval to market Feraheme for these additional indications, we will need to successfully conduct clinical trials showing that Feraheme is safe and effective for these new uses and in these new patient populations and then apply for and obtain appropriate regulatory approvals. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires adherence to a wide range of regulatory requirements. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in completing any clinical trials for additional indications in a timely manner or that, if completed, the results of such clinical trials will demonstrate Feraheme to be safe and effective in such uses and/or patient populations. Our ability to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner depends on a number of factors, including: •Protocol design; •Timing of regulatory and institutional review board approval; •Availability of clinical study material; and •The rate of patient enrollment. 35 Table of Contents Any delay incurred in our clinical trials for additional indications could result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approvals and could have an adverse effect on our development strategy. In addition, in order to increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we plan to conduct trials in geographies outside the U.S., including India. We have no experience conducting clinical trials outside the U.S. and therefore such trials will require substantial time and resources to identify and familiarize ourselves with the regulatory requirements of such foreign countries. To the extent we wish to manufacture, market or sell Feraheme in foreign countries, we will need to comply with foreign regulatory requirements, which vary widely from country to country and may in some cases be more rigorous than requirements in the U.S. Foreign regulatory agents may require additional studies or studies designed with different clinical endpoints and/or comparators than those which we have already completed. The time required for approval may also be longer or shorter than in the U.S. Any failure by us to obtain approval for additional Feraheme indications in the U.S. or any failure to obtain approval for any indications outside the U.S. may limit the commercial success of Feraheme and our ability to grow our revenues. We rely on third parties in the conduct of our clinical trials, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, our development plans may be adversely affected. We rely on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials. We have and we plan to continue to contract with certain third-parties to provide certain services, including site selection, enrollment, monitoring and data management services. Although we depend heavily on these parties, we do not control them and therefore we cannot be assured that these third-parties will adequately perform all of their contractual obligations to us. If our third-party service providers cannot adequately fulfill their obligations to us on a timely and satisfactory basis or if the quality and accuracy of our clinical trial data is compromised due to failure to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements or if such third-parties otherwise fail to meet deadlines, our development plans may be delayed or terminated. The investment of our cash is subject to risks, which may cause losses or adversely affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2008, we had $64.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, $94.9 million in short-term investments, $54.3 million in long-term investments, and $1.6 million in settlement rights. We have historically invested our funds in institutional money market funds, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury and government agency securities, municipal debt securities, and auction rate securities, or ARS, in accordance with the criteria set forth in our investment policy. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults and the ensuing fallout, which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. We may realize losses in the fair value of these investments or a complete loss of these investments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. At December 31, 2008, we held a total of $54.3 million in fair market value of ARS, reflecting an impairment of approximately $12.2 million compared to our cost basis of these securities of $66.5 million. Of the $12.2 million impairment, approximately $10.5 million represents a temporary impairment and is reported as an unrealized loss at December 31, 2008. The remaining $1.7 million impairment represents an other-than-temporary impairment which is recognized in our consolidated statement of operations at December 31, 2008. Greater than 90% of these ARS were rated AAA as of 36 Table of Contents December 31, 2008 by at least one of the major securities rating agencies, most of which were collateralized by student loans substantially guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. We had traditionally recorded these ARS at cost, which approximated fair market value due to their variable interest rates. Prior to February 2008, these investments typically reset through an auction process every 7 or 28 days, which generally allowed existing investors to either roll over their holdings and continue to own their securities or liquidate their holdings by selling their securities at par value. In February 2008, our ARS began to experience failed auctions and have continued to experience failed auctions. As a result of the lack of observable ARS market activity, we changed our valuation methodology for these securities to a discounted cash flow analysis as opposed to valuing them at par value. Since February 2008, the continued uncertainty in the credit markets has caused almost all additional auctions with respect to our ARS to fail and prevented us from liquidating certain of our holdings of ARS because the amount of these securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for these securities. These auctions may continue to fail indefinitely, and there could be a further decline in value of these securities or any other securities, which may ultimately be deemed to be other-than-temporary. In the future, should we determine that these declines in value of ARS are other-than-temporary, we would recognize a loss in our consolidated statement of operations, which could be material. In addition, failed auctions will adversely impact the liquidity of our investments. Based on our ability to access our cash and other short-term investments, our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate that the current lack of liquidity with respect to these securities will materially affect our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course in the short term, however, we are uncertain when the current liquidity issues relating to ARS will improve, if at all. The condition of the credit markets remains dynamic. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity with respect to our investments. For example, during 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $1.3 million related to certain corporate debt securities held by us. This impairment charge was required after we conducted an analysis of other-than-temporary impairment factors for our securities including the severity of declines and current financial market conditions, which caused us to determine that the $1.3 million impairment was other-than-temporary. In addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. In addition, as part of our determination of the fair value of our investments, we consider credit ratings provided by independent investment rating agencies as of the valuation date. These ratings are subject to change. For example, in late February 2009 three of our ARS with a total par value of $8.7 million and one of our ARS with a par value of $5.0 million were downgraded by one of the major credit rating agencies to A3 and Baa1, respectively, from their previous rating of Aaa. In contrast, the ARS having a par value of $5.0 million was re-affirmed as AAA by a different major rating agency in January 2009. As the ratings of these ARS have changed we may be required to adjust our future valuation of these ARS which may adversely affect the value of these investments. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash position, liquidity and overall financial condition. Our corporate compliance program cannot ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business. Our general operations, and the research, development, manufacture, sale and marketing of our products and product candidates are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, including but not limited to FDA regulations, the federal false claims act, and the federal anti-kickback statute. While we are developing and implementing a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceuticals industry, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potential federal and state 37 Table of Contents regulations and/or laws. If we or our representatives fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, including, but not limited to, the termination of our clinical trials, the failure to obtain approval of Feraheme, restrictions on how we market and sell Feraheme, restrictions on our manufacturing processes, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation, or other sanctions. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves, such actions could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Legislative or regulatory changes may adversely impact our business. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. New laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require us to modify our development programs, revise the way we manufacture, market and sell Feraheme, require additional clinical trials or post-approval safety studies, or limit coverage or reimbursement for Feraheme. Any such new laws, regulations, decisions or interpretations may therefore have a significant adverse impact on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize Feraheme, and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate and grow our revenues and achieve profitability. Our operating results will likely fluctuate so you should not rely on the results of any single quarter to predict how we will perform over time. Our future operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, some of which we cannot control, including but not limited to: •The timing and likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval in the U.S. for Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent; •The timing and magnitude of revenues from product sales of Feraheme, if approved; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with our preparations for the planned U.S. commercial launch of Feraheme, including costs associated with building and maintaining our commercial infrastructure and executing our promotional and marketing strategy for Feraheme, if approved; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with commercial-scale manufacturing of Feraheme, including costs associated with building commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and second source suppliers; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with our development of additional indications for Feraheme; •Changes in laws and regulations concerning reimbursement for Feraheme, if approved, from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; and •Implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or policies. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Because of the specialized nature of our business, our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our Chief Executive Officer and President, Brian J.G. Pereira, MD, our other 38 Table of Contents executive officers and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with the majority of our senior executives but such agreements do not guarantee that these executives will remain employed by us for any significant period of time, or at all. If we are unable to retain these personnel, or we lose the services of our key personnel for any reason, our Feraheme development and commercialization efforts could be severely adversely impacted. Furthermore, our expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as commercial scale manufacturing, marketing and sales, and late-stage development has required the addition of new management personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could impose significant limits on our business operations and hinder our ability to successfully and efficiently commercialize Feraheme and complete our development projects. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our ability to commercialize Feraheme, pursue opportunities and expand our business could be adversely affected. We have experienced significant growth, which has placed and may continue to place a substantial strain on our employees, management, facilities and resources. In anticipation of the potential approval and U.S. commercial launch of Feraheme, we have rapidly expanded our regulatory, medical affairs, marketing, sales, manufacturing, finance, development, and compliance capabilities. As our operations expand, we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. In addition, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, train and manage our expanding workforce, and maintain close coordination among our various departments. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any one of them could prevent us from successfully commercializing Feraheme, pursuing new business opportunities, or expanding our business, any one of which could adversely impact our future business prospects. We may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, or acquisition agreements that could disrupt our business, decrease our profitability, result in dilution to stockholders or cause us to incur debt or significant additional expense. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue collaboration and in-licensing opportunities, acquisitions of products or businesses, and/or strategic alliances that we believe would be complementary to our existing business. We have limited experience with respect to these business development activities. Any such strategic transactions by us could result in large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which would adversely impact our operating results. Management of a license arrangement, collaboration, or other strategic arrangement and/or integration of an acquired asset or company may also disrupt our ongoing business, require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business and our planned U.S. commercial launch of Feraheme. We may not identify or complete any such transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated financial benefits of any such transaction. In addition, to finance any such strategic transactions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings, and such additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements or acquisition agreements may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us 39 Table of Contents for these arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. We may need additional capital to achieve our business objectives. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to complete development, clinical trials, commercial launch preparations, and other activities necessary to successfully commercialize Feraheme. As a result, we anticipate that our expenses will increase and that our cash-burn rate will continue to increase in the near- and long-term. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •Our ability to successfully obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. for Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent in a timely manner; •The timing and magnitude of revenues from product sales of Feraheme, if approved; •Costs associated with our preparations for the planned U.S. commercial launch of Feraheme, including costs associated with building and maintaining our commercial infrastructure and executing our promotional and marketing strategy for Feraheme, if approved; •Costs associated with commercial-scale manufacturing of Feraheme, including costs associated with building commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and second source suppliers; •Costs associated with our development of additional indications for Feraheme; •Costs associated with the pursuit of potential business development activities; •Costs associated with our pursuit of approval for Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent outside of the U.S.; •Our ability to liquidate our ARS investments in a timely manner and without significant loss; •The impact of the current deterioration in the credit and capital markets upon the investments in our portfolio; •Our ability to establish additional development and marketing arrangements or to enter into alternative strategic relationships, if necessary; and •Our ability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us, if necessary. We estimate that our existing cash resources, combined with cash we currently expect to receive from earnings on our investments, will be sufficient to finance our operations for at least the next twelve months. Thereafter, we may require additional funds or need to establish alternative strategic arrangements to continue our Feraheme commercialization efforts and development activities. We may seek needed funding through arrangements with collaborative partners or through public or private equity or debt financings. We may not be able to obtain financing or to secure alternative strategic arrangements on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. Any additional equity financings or alternative strategic arrangements would be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, the terms of any debt financing could greatly restrict our ability to raise additional capital and may provide rights and preferences to the investors in any such financing, which are not available to current stockholders. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us when needed could force us to dramatically reduce our expenses and delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our activities and operations, including our development activities, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future business prospects. 40 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets in the conduct of our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications. The breadth of the claims obtained in our patents may not provide significant protection for our technology. The degree of protection afforded by patents for licensed technologies or for future discoveries may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. The patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. Moreover, patents issued to us may be contested or invalidated. Future patent interference proceedings involving our patents may harm our ability to commercialize Feraheme. Claims of infringement or violation of the proprietary rights of others may be asserted against us. If we are required to defend against such claims or to protect our own proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial costs to us and the distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could prevent us from marketing and selling Feraheme, limit our development and commercialization of Feraheme, or harm our competitive position and result in additional significant costs. In addition, any successful claim of infringement asserted against us could subject us to monetary damages or injunction preventing us from making or selling products. We also may be required to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents, which expire between the years 2009 and 2020, some of which may be subject to extension under FDA regulations. Because certain patents that cover our products will begin to expire in the coming years, the protection provided by these patents will also begin to expire. Our inability to commercialize our products prior to the expiration of our patents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects as the expiration of such patents could permit generic drug manufacturers to manufacture, market and sell lower cost drugs that compete with our products and product candidates. In the future, we may be required to obtain additional licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of others in order to commercialize our products or continue with our development efforts. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain such licenses could result in delays in marketing our products or our inability to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products or product candidates requiring such licenses. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. In countries where we do not have or have not applied for patents on our products, we will be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where we have patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our proprietary technology. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements, however, may be breached. We may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches, and our trade secrets might otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that an equivalent product will not be marketed in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. 41 Table of Contents We are exposed to a number of different potential liability claims, and we may not be able to maintain or obtain sufficient insurance coverage to protect our cash and other assets. The administration of our products to humans, whether in clinical trials or after approved commercial usage, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made by customers, including corporate partners, clinical trial subjects, patients, pharmaceutical companies, or others. We maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products and product candidates in clinical trials and commercial use. However, coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, costs may continue to increase significantly, and we may not be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. Furthermore, our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage amounts to protect us against liability, which could deplete our capital resources. We also may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any product approved for marketing in the future. Our insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability or cover costs resulting from product liability claims. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could reduce or eliminate our resources, whether or not the plaintiffs in such claims ultimately prevail. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and contractual agreements with our directors and officers, and in order to attract competent candidates, we are obligated to indemnify our officers and directors against certain claims arising from their service to us. We maintain directors and officers' liability insurance to cover such potential claims against our officers and directors. However, this insurance may not be adequate for certain claims and deductibles apply. As a result of our indemnification obligations and in instances where insurance coverage is not available or insufficient, any liability claim or series of claims brought against our officers or directors could deplete or exhaust our resources, regardless of the ultimate disposition of such claims. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. Because we use certain hazardous materials in the production of our products and product candidates, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the import, handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating the release or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, and such owner or operator may incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly the release or spill of, these substances could adversely affect the value of, and our ability to transfer or encumber, our real property. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us and our business. Currently, ten financial analysts publish reports about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or issue commentary or observations that are perceived by the market to be adverse to us or our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 42 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. 