Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation, except as specifically required by law and the rules of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in company expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. 1 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS: Overview AMAG Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was founded in 1981. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of a therapeutic iron compound to treat iron deficiency anemia, or IDA. Our principal source of revenue is from the sale of Feraheme® (ferumoxytol) Injection for Intravenous, or IV, use, which was approved for marketing in the U.S. in June 2009 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, for use as an IV iron replacement therapy for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with chronic kidney disease, or CKD. In December 2011, Feraheme was also granted marketing approval in Canada for use as an IV iron replacement therapy for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with CKD. We are currently pursuing marketing applications for Feraheme in the European Union, or EU, and Switzerland for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients. We market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. through our own commercial organization, including a specialized sales force. We began commercial sale of Feraheme in the U.S. in July 2009 and sell Feraheme primarily to authorized wholesalers and specialty distributors. Under an agreement with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Takeda, Takeda has an exclusive license to market and sell Feraheme in Canada. We expect Takeda to launch Feraheme in Canada in 2012. Feraheme is approved in the U.S. for the treatment of IDA in both dialysis and non-dialysis dependent adult CKD patients. In January 2011, a prospective payment system for the reimbursement of dialysis services became effective, which significantly diminished the utilization of Feraheme in the dialysis market. As a result of the implementation of the prospective payment system, our dialysis sales during 2011 were de minimis. Our U.S. commercial strategy is now entirely focused on growing the utilization of Feraheme in non-dialysis dependent adult CKD patients with IDA, specifically in hematology, oncology, nephrology, and hospital sites of care, where a large number of CKD patients are treated. In order to align our operating expenses with our near-term revenue projections for Feraheme, in November 2011, we initiated a corporate restructuring, including a workforce reduction plan, which included an approximate 25% reduction in positions and the departure of our chief executive officer and our chief commercial officer. The workforce reduction was substantially completed by the end of 2011. In November 2011, our Board of Directors, or Board, appointed Frank E. Thomas, our then Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to serve as our Chief Operating Officer and interim President and Chief Executive Officer until a permanent successor is appointed. Our Board is currently conducting a search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer. We also announced, in November 2011, that we hired Jefferies & Company, Inc., or Jefferies, as our financial advisor to explore whether a sale of our company is a viable strategy for value maximization at this time while we simultaneously establish a solid foundation from which to drive profitability and deliver stockholder value if a sale is not pursued. We are conducting a strategic review with Jefferies to determine the optimal strategy for growth, which involves an evaluation of all business strategies to enhance our portfolio, including in-licensing and acquisition opportunities. Prior to the FDA approval and commercial launch of Feraheme in 2009, we devoted substantially all of our resources to our research and development programs. Since then, we have incurred substantial costs related to the commercialization and development of Feraheme. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses to manufacture, market and sell Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic for use in adult CKD patients in the U.S., to further develop and seek marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients, and to obtain marketing approval for Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S. Prior to the commercial launch of Feraheme, we financed 2 Table of Contents our operations primarily from the sale of our equity securities, cash generated by our investing activities, and payments from our licensees. Since 2009, our revenues have been primarily attributable to product sales of Feraheme, along with license fee payments from Takeda. We currently expect to fund our future operations from cash from sales of Feraheme in the U.S., milestone payments we may receive from Takeda upon regulatory approval and commercial launch of Feraheme in Canada and the EU, royalties we may receive with respect to sales of Feraheme in Canada and in the EU, cash generated by our investing activities, and the sale of our equity securities, if necessary. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $439.9 million and a cash, cash equivalents and investments balance of approximately $229.7 million. Takeda Collaboration In March 2010, we entered into a License, Development and Commercialization Agreement, or the Takeda Agreement, with Takeda under which we granted exclusive rights to Takeda to develop and commercialize Feraheme as a therapeutic agent in Europe, Asia-Pacific countries (excluding Japan, China and Taiwan), the Commonwealth of Independent States, Canada, India and Turkey, or collectively, the Licensed Territory. Under the Takeda Agreement we may be entitled to receive milestone payments over time equaling approximately $220.0 million, including up to an aggregate of $33.0 million upon the regulatory approval and commercial launch of Feraheme in the EU and Canada, of which $3.0 million will be earned and payable upon the first commercial sale of Feraheme in Canada. Clinical Development and Regulatory Status of Feraheme During the first quarter of 2012, we completed enrollment in our global registrational program for Feraheme in patients with IDA regardless of the underlying cause. This program consists of two Phase III multi-center clinical trials to assess Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients for whom treatment with oral iron is unsatisfactory, including women with abnormal uterine bleeding, or AUB, patients with cancer or gastrointestinal diseases and postpartum women. In March 2012, we reported preliminary results from the first of the two Phase III studies in our global IDA registrational program. This study was an open label, active controlled trial that compared treatment with Feraheme to treatment with IV iron sucrose and enrolled 605 patients at 74 sites in Europe, Asia Pacific and Australia. The patients enrolled in the study had a history of unsatisfactory oral iron therapy and had IDA associated with various conditions including AUB, cancer, gastrointestinal disorders or other causes. The study enrolled patients to receive a one gram IV course of either Feraheme or iron sucrose and was designed to demonstrate non-inferiority on efficacy of Feraheme as compared to iron sucrose. Of the 605 patients enrolled in the study, 406 patients were randomly assigned to receive Feraheme and 199 were randomly assigned to receive iron sucrose. The demographics and all baseline parameters were well balanced between the two treatment groups. The primary efficacy endpoint of the study was the mean change in hemoglobin from the date of determination of each patient's baseline hemoglobin level to the fifth week following administration of the study drug or the proportion of patients who achieved a greater than or equal to 2.0 gram per deciliter increase in hemoglobin at any time from the date of determination of their baseline hemoglobin level to the fifth week following administration of the study drug, depending on the regulatory authority. In this study, Feraheme achieved the predefined criteria for non-inferiority on both primary efficacy endpoints. Patients treated with Feraheme achieved a mean increase in hemoglobin at week five of 2.7 grams per deciliter as compared to a mean increase of 2.4 grams per deciliter in patients treated with IV iron sucrose. An increase of 2.0 grams per deciliter or more in hemoglobin at any time from baseline to week five was achieved in 84% of patients treated with Feraheme as compared to 81% of patients treated with IV iron sucrose. 3 Table of Contents No new safety signals were observed with Feraheme and the types of reported adverse events, or AEs, were consistent with those seen in previous studies and those contained in the U.S. package insert for Feraheme. Overall, AEs experienced by patients in the two treatment groups were comparable, with AEs reported in 41.4% of Feraheme-treated patients as compared to 44.2% of patients treated with IV iron sucrose. Patients in both treatment groups experienced protocol-defined adverse events of special interest, including moderate to severe hypotension or hypersensitivity reactions, ranging from fever alone to an anaphylactoid reaction. Cardiovascular AEs were comparable between the two treatment groups. Serious adverse events, or SAEs, were reported in 4.2% of Feraheme-treated patients as compared to 2.5% of patients treated with IV iron sucrose. The SAEs reported in two Feraheme treated patients, or 0.5%, were reported as related to treatment by the applicable investigators in the study. The second Phase III trial in our global IDA registrational program was a double blind, placebo-controlled study to assess the efficacy and safety of two doses of 510 milligrams each of Feraheme compared to placebo in a total of approximately 800 patients with IDA. During the second half of 2012, we expect to submit a Supplemental New Drug Application, or sNDA, in the U.S. seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of anemia in all adult patients with IDA. In addition, we expect that Takeda will file a Type II Variation, which is the equivalent of a sNDA in the U.S., seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of anemia in all adult patients with IDA with the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, in 2013. Further, an open label extension study is currently enrolling patients from the placebo-controlled study described above who will be followed for six months and will be eligible to receive two doses of 510 milligrams each of Feraheme whenever they meet treatment criteria. In June 2010, we submitted our Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, with the EMA seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients. We recently received a 60 day extension in order to fully respond to the Day 180 List of Outstanding Issues. We expect a recommendation from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, on our MAA submission in the first half of 2012. Assuming a positive CHMP recommendation, we expect a final decision on our MAA by the European Commission shortly thereafter. We expect that Feraheme will be sold in the EU under the trade name Rienso™. We have also initiated two randomized, active-controlled pediatric studies of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in pediatric CKD patients to meet our FDA post-approval Pediatric Research Equity Act requirement to support pediatric labeling of Feraheme. One study is in dialysis-dependent CKD patients, and the other is in CKD patients not on dialysis. Each study will assess the safety and efficacy of Feraheme treatment as compared to oral iron in approximately 144 pediatric patients. Both of these pediatric studies are currently open for enrollment. Our pediatric investigation plan, which is a requirement for approval of our MAA, was approved by the EMA in December 2009 and includes the two pediatric studies needed to meet the requirements of the Pediatric Research Equity Act in the U.S. described above and two additional pediatric studies requested by the EMA, including a rollover study and a study in pediatric patients with IDA. As part of our obligations under the Takeda Agreement, we are also required to initiate a multi-center post-approval clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of repeat, episodic Feraheme administration for the treatment of persistent or recurrent IDA. Final study design and timing of this trial are subject to further discussions with Takeda. In August 2010, Takeda filed an MAA with Swissmedic, the Swiss Agency for Therapeutic Products, seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients. We expect a decision from Swissmedic during the second quarter of 2012. 4 Table of Contents In December 2009, our licensee in China, 3SBio Inc., or 3SBio, filed an application with the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration, or the SFDA, to obtain approval to begin a registrational clinical trial necessary to file for marketing approval of Feraheme in China. If approved by the SFDA, 3SBio plans to commence a multi-center randomized efficacy and safety study of Feraheme in China involving approximately 200 CKD patients in 2012. Other information GastroMARK®, which is marketed and sold under the trade name Lumirem® outside of the U.S, is our oral contrast agent used for delineating the bowel in magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, and is approved and marketed in the U.S., Europe, and other countries through our licensees. Sales of GastroMARK by our licensees have been at approximately their current levels for many years, and we do not expect sales of GastroMARK to materially increase. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or NASDAQ, under the trading symbol "AMAG." Our Core Technology Our core technology is based on coated superparamagnetic iron oxide particles and their characteristic properties. Our core competencies include the ability to design such particles for particular applications, to manufacture the particles in controlled sizes, and to cover the particles with different coatings depending upon the application for which they will be used. Our technology and expertise enable us to synthesize, sterilize and stabilize these iron oxide particles in a manner necessary for use in pharmaceutical products such as IV iron replacement therapeutics and MRI contrast agents. Our iron oxide particles are composed of bioavailable iron that is easily utilized by the body and incorporated into the body's iron stores. As a result, our core technology is well suited for use as an IV iron replacement therapy product. Our rights to our technology are derived from and/or protected by license agreements, patents, patent applications and trade secret protections. See "Patents and Trade Secrets." 5 Table of Contents Products The following table summarizes the uses and potential uses of our products, the names of our principal licensees, the current U.S. and foreign regulatory status, and the primary markets for our products. Product Uses/Potential Uses Licensees U.S. Status Foreign Status Feraheme® (ferumoxytol) Injection(1) IV iron replacement therapeutic agent for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with CKD. 3SBio (China) and Takeda (Europe, Asia-Pacific countries (excluding Japan, China and Taiwan), the Commonwealth of Independent States, Canada, India and Turkey). Approved and marketed. Received marketing approval from Health Canada, December 2011. Expected to launch in 2012. MAA filed with EMA, June 2010. CHMP recommendation expected in first half of 2012. MAA filed with Swissmedic, August 2010. Decision expected in second quarter of 2012. Filed for CKD registrational trial with the SFDA in China, December 2009. Trial expected to begin in 2012. IV iron replacement therapeutic agent in patients with IDA, regardless of the underlying cause. 3SBio (China) (option to extend license into additional therapeutic indications). Takeda (Europe, Asia-Pacific countries (excluding Japan, China and Taiwan), the Commonwealth of Independent States, Canada, India and Turkey). Enrollment completed in Phase III global registrational program. sNDA expected to be filed in 2012. Type II Variation expected to be filed with the EMA by Takeda in 2013. GastroMARK®(2) Delineating the bowel in abdominal imaging. Covidien, Ltd. (U.S.) and Guerbet, S.A. (various countries in the EU, South America, the Middle East, southeast Asia, Africa and eastern Europe). Approved and marketed. Approved and marketed in several countries. (1)Feraheme is expected to be marketed and sold under the trade name Rienso in the EU. (2)GastroMARK is marketed and sold under the trade name Lumirem outside of the U.S. For a discussion of the substantive regulatory requirements applicable to the development and regulatory approval process in the U.S. and other countries, see "Government Regulation." 6 Table of Contents Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in patients with CKD Overview On June 30, 2009, Feraheme was approved for marketing in the U.S. by the FDA for use as an IV iron replacement therapy for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with CKD. In July 2009, we began to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. in both the dialysis and non-dialysis CKD markets, including to nephrologists, hematologists, dialysis organizations, hospitals and other end-users who treat patients with CKD. In 2010, due to a then impending change in the way the federal government would reimburse providers for the care of dialysis patients, the utilization of Feraheme shifted from primarily dialysis patients to non-dialysis patients. Accordingly, we have since focused our commercial efforts entirely on building Feraheme utilization in non-dialysis CKD patients. We anticipate the vast majority of all Feraheme utilization in the U.S. will continue to be in the non-dialysis CKD patient population. In December 2011, Feraheme was granted marketing approval in Canada for use as an IV iron replacement therapy for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with CKD. We are currently pursuing marketing applications for Feraheme in the EU and Switzerland for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients and expect to receive decisions on these marketing applications during 2012. Chronic kidney disease, anemia, and iron deficiency Based on data contained in a 2007 publication in the Journal of the American Medical Association, it is estimated that approximately 10 to 15% of the U.S. adult population is affected by CKD, a condition generally characterized by damaged kidneys, or a reduction in kidney function below 50% of normal. Anemia, a common condition among CKD patients, is associated with cardiovascular complications, decreased quality of life, hospitalizations, and increased mortality. Anemia develops early during the course of CKD and worsens with advancing kidney disease. Iron deficiency is a common cause of anemia in CKD patients and can result from multiple blood draws, hospitalizations and interventional procedures, gastrointestinal bleeding, or poor nutritional intake. Regardless of the cause of anemia, iron replacement therapy is essential to increase iron stores and raise hemoglobin levels. Iron is also essential for effective treatment with erythropoiesis stimulating agents, or ESAs, which are commonly used in anemic patients to stimulate red blood cell production. Based on data contained in a 2009 publication in the Journal of the American Society of Nephrology, we estimate that up to 1.6 million adults in the U.S. with anemia and stages 3 through 5 CKD, who are patients in the later stages of CKD but not yet on dialysis, may be iron deficient and could therefore benefit from receiving iron. Currently there are two methods used to treat IDA in CKD patients: oral iron supplements and IV iron. Oral iron is currently the first line iron replacement therapy of choice of most physicians in both the U.S. and abroad. However, oral iron supplements are often not absorbed well by the gastrointestinal tract and frequently have unpleasant side effects, such as constipation, diarrhea, and cramping, which can cause patients to stop taking their medication. In addition, it can take an extended time for hemoglobin levels to improve following the initiation of oral iron treatment. Conversely, iron given intravenously allows larger amounts of iron to be provided to patients while avoiding many of the side effects and treatment compliance issues associated with oral iron, and can result in faster rises in hemoglobin levels. The administration of IV iron has been shown to be effective in treating anemia either when used alone or in combination with an ESA. Current U.S. treatment guidelines indicate that treating first with iron alone may delay or reduce the need for ESA therapy. We believe that a small fraction of non-dialysis CKD patients in the U.S. with IDA are currently being treated with IV iron, and thus a significant opportunity remains to grow the market for IV iron in this patient population. Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients IDA is widely prevalent in many different patient populations for whom treatment with oral iron is unsatisfactory, including women with AUB, patients with cancer or gastrointestinal diseases, and 7 Table of Contents postpartum women. It is estimated that more than 4 million patients in the U.S. have IDA. Currently, approximately 40% of these patients are treated with oral iron and approximately 5% are treated with IV iron. Based on our belief that the product characteristics of Feraheme support clinical development in these additional patient populations, in mid-2010 we initiated a global registrational program for Feraheme in a broad range of patients with IDA, regardless of the underlying cause. The development program is intended to enable the marketing approval of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA regardless of the underlying cause in major markets around the world, including the U.S. This program consists of two Phase III studies and is designed to include all patients with IDA for whom treatment with oral iron is unsatisfactory, including women with AUB, patients with cancer or gastrointestinal diseases and post-partum women. One study compares treatment with Feraheme to treatment with placebo, and the other study compares treatment with Feraheme to treatment with an IV iron sucrose product. Patients from the placebo-controlled study are eligible to enter an extension study to evaluate treatment with Feraheme over a six month period. We have completed enrollment in our two Phase III trials, and in March 2012, we reported preliminary results from the first of the two Phase III studies in our global IDA registrational program. This study was an open label, active controlled trial that compared treatment with Feraheme to treatment with IV iron sucrose and enrolled 605 patients at 74 sites in Europe, Asia Pacific and Australia. The patients enrolled in the study had a history of unsatisfactory oral iron therapy and had IDA associated with various conditions including AUB, cancer, gastrointestinal disorders or other causes. The study enrolled patients to receive a one gram IV course of either Feraheme or iron sucrose and was designed to demonstrate non-inferiority on efficacy of Feraheme as compared to iron sucrose. Of the 605 patients enrolled in the study, 406 patients were randomly assigned to receive Feraheme and 199 were randomly assigned to receive iron sucrose. The demographics and all baseline parameters were well balanced between the two treatment groups. The primary efficacy endpoint of the study was the mean change in hemoglobin from the date of determination of each patient's baseline hemoglobin level to the fifth week following administration of the study drug or the proportion of patients who achieved a greater than or equal to 2.0 gram per deciliter increase in hemoglobin at any time from the date of determination of their baseline hemoglobin level to the fifth week following administration of the study drug, depending on the regulatory authority. In this study, Feraheme achieved the predefined criteria for non-inferiority on both primary efficacy endpoints. Patients treated with Feraheme achieved a mean increase in hemoglobin at week five of 2.7 grams per deciliter as compared to a mean increase of 2.4 grams per deciliter in patients treated with IV iron sucrose. An increase of 2.0 grams per deciliter or more in hemoglobin at any time from baseline to week five was achieved in 84% of patients treated with Feraheme as compared to 81% of patients treated with IV iron sucrose. No new safety signals were observed with Feraheme and the types of reported AEs were consistent with those seen in previous studies and those contained in the U.S. package insert for Feraheme. Overall, AEs experienced by patients in the two treatment groups were comparable, with AEs reported in 41.4% of Feraheme-treated patients as compared to 44.2% of patients treated with IV iron sucrose. Patients in both treatment groups experienced protocol-defined adverse events of special interest, including moderate to severe hypotension or hypersensitivity reactions, ranging from fever alone to an anaphylactoid reaction. Cardiovascular AEs were comparable between the two treatment groups. SAEs were reported in 4.2% of Feraheme-treated patients as compared to 2.5% of patients treated with IV iron sucrose. The SAEs reported in two Feraheme treated patients, or 0.5%, were reported as related to treatment by the applicable investigators in the study. 8 Table of Contents We expect to file our U.S. sNDA during the second half of 2012 seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of anemia in all adult patients with IDA. In addition, we expect that Takeda will file a Type II Variation, which is the equivalent of a sNDA in the U.S., seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of anemia in all adult patients with IDA with the EMA in 2013. AUB is defined as chronic, heavy, or prolonged uterine bleeding that can result from multiple causes, including uterine abnormalities, blood disorders, pregnancy, intrauterine devices, medications, and heavy menstrual bleeding. IDA is commonly associated with AUB, and we estimate that more than 3 million women in the U.S. have IDA and AUB. IDA in patients with AUB, regardless of the cause, requires treatment with iron supplementation, either by oral or IV administration. IDA in patients with gastrointestinal diseases is likely caused by blood loss and/or the inadequate intake or absorption of iron. We estimate that nearly 800,000 patients who have gastrointestinal diseases in the U.S. also have IDA. Oral iron has been used to treat IDA in patients with gastrointestinal diseases, but its efficacy is variable due to inconsistent bioavailability and absorption, the high incidence of gastrointestinal side effects and patient noncompliance. IDA is also common in patients with cancer, and we estimate that nearly 400,000 cancer patients in the U.S. have IDA. Iron supplementation through both oral and IV administration plays an important role in treating anemia in cancer patients. While there may be some differences in the underlying causes of anemia and iron deficiency in cancer patients who are receiving chemotherapy and those who are not, patients in both categories may develop absolute IDA due to blood loss and/or the inadequate intake or absorption of iron. Oral iron has been used to treat IDA in cancer patients, but its efficacy is variable due to inconsistent bioavailability and absorption, a high incidence of gastrointestinal side effects, potential interactions with other treatments, and patient noncompliance. IV iron has been shown in small clinical trials to be well tolerated in the cancer patient population in both patients who are receiving chemotherapy and those who are not. Currently, only certain iron dextran IV iron products are approved in the U.S. for the treatment of all patients with IDA, regardless of the underlying cause. All of the other currently marketed IV iron products, including Feraheme, are only approved in the U.S. for either the treatment of IDA in CKD patients or CKD patients on hemodialysis. We believe that a new entrant into the broader IDA market could significantly increase the number of patients treated with IV iron. GastroMARK Images of organs and tissues in the abdomen using MRI without contrast agents can be difficult to read because the abdominal organs and tissues cannot be easily distinguished from the loops of the bowel. GastroMARK, our oral contrast agent for delineation of the bowel, flows through and darkens the bowel when ingested. By more clearly identifying the intestinal loops, GastroMARK enhances the ability to distinguish the bowel from adjacent tissues and organs in the upper gastrointestinal tract. GastroMARK was approved by the FDA in 1996. Our licensee, Covidien, Ltd., or Covidien, or its predecessors, have been marketing GastroMARK in the U.S. since 1997. We initially licensed the marketing rights to GastroMARK, under the tradename Lumirem, on an exclusive basis to Guerbet S.A., or Guerbet, in western Europe and Brazil. Guerbet has been marketing Lumirem in several EU countries since 1993 and subsequently acquired the rights to market Lumirem in several other countries in South America, the Middle East, southeast Asia, Africa, and eastern Europe. See "Licensing, Marketing and Supply Arrangements." Sales of GastroMARK by our licensees have been at approximately their current levels for many years, and we do not expect sales of GastroMARK to materially increase. 9 Table of Contents Licensing, Marketing and Supply Arrangements Although we are commercializing Feraheme in the U.S. through our own commercial organization, our commercial strategy has also included the formation of collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies to facilitate the sale and distribution of our products in the U.S. and abroad. At present we are parties to the following collaborations: Takeda In March 2010, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Takeda, under which we granted exclusive rights to Takeda to develop and commercialize Feraheme as a therapeutic agent in the Licensed Territory. In December 2011, Feraheme was granted marketing approval in Canada for use as an IV iron replacement therapy for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with CKD. We expect Takeda to launch Feraheme in Canada in 2012. Under the Takeda Agreement, except under limited circumstances, we have retained the right to manufacture Feraheme and, accordingly, are responsible for supply of Feraheme to Takeda at a fixed cost per unit, which is capped. We are also responsible for conducting, and bearing the costs related to, certain pre-defined clinical studies with the costs of future modifications or additional studies to be allocated between the parties according to an agreed upon cost-sharing mechanism, which provides for a cap on such costs. In connection with the execution of the Takeda Agreement, we received a $60.0 million upfront payment from Takeda in April 2010. We may also receive a combination of regulatory approval and performance-based milestone payments, reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket regulatory and clinical supply costs, defined payments for supply of Feraheme, and tiered double-digit royalties on net product sales in the Licensed Territory. The milestone payments we may be entitled to receive under the agreement could over time equal approximately $220.0 million, including up to an aggregate of $33.0 million upon the regulatory approval and commercial launch of Feraheme in the EU and Canada, of which $3.0 million will be earned and payable upon the first commercial sale of Feraheme in Canada. Takeda has the unilateral right to terminate the Takeda Agreement under certain conditions, including without cause. 3SBio In May 2008, we entered into a Collaboration and Exclusive License Agreement, or the 3SBio License Agreement, and a Supply Agreement, or the 3SBio Supply Agreement, with 3SBio for the development and commercialization of Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent in China. The 3SBio License Agreement grants 3SBio an exclusive license for an initial term of thirteen years to develop and commercialize Feraheme as a therapeutic agent in China for an initial indication for the treatment of IDA in patients with CKD, and an option to expand into additional therapeutic indications. In consideration of the grant of the license, we received an upfront payment of $1.0 million. We are eligible to receive certain other specified milestone payments upon regulatory approval of Feraheme in China for CKD and other indications. We are also entitled to receive tiered royalties of up to 25% based on net sales of Feraheme by 3SBio in China. We retained all manufacturing rights for Feraheme under these agreements. In addition, pursuant to the 3SBio Supply Agreement, 3SBio has agreed to purchase from us, and we have agreed to supply to 3SBio, Feraheme at a predetermined per unit supply price, which per unit price is capped, for use in connection with 3SBio's development and commercialization obligations for so long as the 3SBio License Agreement is in effect. To date we have not provided 3SBio with any commercial product under this agreement. Guerbet In 1989, we entered into a supply and distribution agreement with Guerbet granting Guerbet an exclusive right to manufacture and sell Lumirem in western Europe and Brazil. This agreement was 10 Table of Contents subsequently amended to expand Guerbet's exclusive rights to manufacture and sell Lumirem in various other areas, including South America, the Middle East, southeast Asia, and eastern Europe. Under the terms of this distribution agreement, Guerbet pays us a percentage of net sales of Lumirem as the purchase price for the active ingredient of Lumirem, which we are required to sell to Guerbet under our agreement. The agreement is perpetual but terminable upon certain specified events. Covidien In 1990, we entered into a manufacturing and distribution agreement with Covidien's predecessor granting it a product license and co-marketing rights to GastroMARK in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Covidien currently has rights to GastroMARK in the U.S. only. Under the terms of the agreement, we receive royalties based on GastroMARK net sales by Covidien as well as a percentage of sales for supplying the active ingredient. The agreement is perpetual but terminable upon certain specified events. Manufacturing and Raw Materials Our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility is registered with the FDA and certain foreign regulatory agencies and is subject to current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, as prescribed by the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory agencies. In this facility, we currently manufacture Feraheme for U.S. commercial sale and for use in human clinical trials as well as GastroMARK for commercial sale. In April 2011, the FDA also approved certain of our third-party contract manufacturers to produce Feraheme drug substance and drug product for the U.S. market. We manufacture Feraheme drug substance and drug product for use in the Canadian market at our Cambridge facility. Upon approval of our MAA by the EMA, we expect to manufacture Feraheme drug substance and drug product for use in the EU market at certain of our third-party contract manufacturers. Although we are working to establish and qualify alternative source manufacturing facilities for the production of Feraheme for Canada and the EU, we will not have such alternative source manufacturing facilities available upon initial commercial launch of Feraheme in those geographies. To support the global commercialization of Feraheme, we have developed a fully integrated manufacturing support system, including quality assurance, quality control, regulatory affairs and inventory control policies and procedures. These support systems are intended to enable us to maintain high standards of quality for our products. We currently purchase certain raw and other materials used to manufacture Feraheme from third-party suppliers and at present do not have any long-term supply contracts with these third parties. Although certain of our raw or other materials are readily available, others may be obtained only from qualified suppliers. Certain materials used in Feraheme may from time to time be procured from a single source without a qualified alternative supplier. The qualification of an alternative source may require repeated testing of the new materials and generate greater expenses to us if materials that we test do not perform in an acceptable manner. In addition, we sometimes obtain raw or other materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high quality standards imposed on our raw and other materials, we may not be able to obtain such materials of the quality required to manufacture Feraheme from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. 11 Table of Contents Patents and Trade Secrets We consider the protection of our technology to be material to our business. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through development and regulatory approval to the marketplace, we place considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for our products. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and other trade secrets. To do so, we must prosecute and maintain existing patents, obtain new patents and ensure trade secret protection. We must also operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties or allowing third parties to infringe our rights. Our policy is to aggressively protect our competitive technology position by a variety of means, including applying for patents in the U.S. and in appropriate foreign countries. We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents, which expire at various times through 2020. Our Feraheme patents currently expire in 2020, however, our primary U.S. patent for Feraheme may be subject to an extension to 2023 under U.S. patent law and FDA regulations. Our foreign patents may also be eligible for extension in accordance with applicable law in certain countries. Our inability to protect our products through our patents and other intellectual property rights in any territory prior to their expiration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. We also have patent applications pending in the U.S. and have filed counterpart patent applications in certain foreign countries. Although further patents may be issued on pending applications, we cannot be sure that any such patents will be issued on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by others, and the existing or future patents of third parties may limit our ability to commercialize our products. For example, in July 2010, Sandoz GmbH, or Sandoz, filed an opposition to one of our patents which covers Feraheme in the EU with the European Patent Office, or EPO. Although we believe that the subject patent is valid, there is a possibility that the EPO could invalidate or require us to narrow the claims contained in the patent. We believe the Sandoz patent opposition is without merit and intend to defend against the opposition vigorously. However, any limitation on the protection of our technology could hinder our ability to develop and market Feraheme. Competition The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid technological change. We and Takeda have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally, and many may have greater financial and other resources, and more experienced trade, sales, reimbursement and manufacturing organizations than we or Takeda do. In addition, many of our and Takeda's competitors have significant name recognition, more established positions in the IV iron market and long-standing relationships with customers and distributors. The iron replacement therapy market is highly sensitive to several factors including, but not limited to, the actual or perceived safety and efficacy profile of the available products, the ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage and reimbursement, price competitiveness, and product characteristics such as convenience of administration and dosing regimens. Feraheme is approved in the U.S. for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with CKD, including both dialysis and non-dialysis CKD patients. However, in January 2011, a prospective payment system for the reimbursement of dialysis services became effective, which significantly diminished the utilization of Feraheme in the dialysis market. As a result of the implementation of the prospective payment system, our dialysis sales during 2011 were de minimis. Our U.S. commercial strategy is now entirely focused on growing the utilization of Feraheme in non-dialysis dependent adult CKD patients with IDA. We believe there is a significant opportunity in the U.S. for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients not yet on dialysis. The U.S. non-dialysis IV iron market is comprised primarily of three sites of care where a substantial number of CKD patients are treated: hematology and oncology clinics, hospitals, and nephrology clinics. 12 Table of Contents There are currently two iron replacement options for treating IDA in CKD patients: oral iron supplements and IV iron. The National Kidney Foundation's Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative guidelines recommend either oral or IV iron for peritoneal dialysis patients and non-dialysis patients with stages 1 through 5 CKD. Oral iron is currently the first line iron replacement therapy of choice of most physicians in both the U.S. and abroad. However, oral iron supplements are poorly absorbed by many patients, which may adversely impact their effectiveness, and are associated with certain side effects that may adversely affect patient compliance in using such products. The alternative to oral iron for the treatment of IDA is IV iron. Feraheme currently competes with several IV iron replacement therapies in the U.S. for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients. Venofer®, an iron sucrose complex, is approved for use in hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis and non-dialysis dependent CKD patients and is marketed in the U.S. by Fresenius Medical Care North America and American Regent Laboratories, Inc., or American Regent, a subsidiary of Luitpold Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Luitpold. Ferrlecit®, a sodium ferric gluconate, is marketed by Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC and is approved for use only in hemodialysis patients. Nulecit™ (sodium ferric gluconate complex in sucrose injection), a generic version of Ferrlecit®, is marketed by Watson Pharmaceuticals, or Watson. INFeD®, an iron dextran product marketed by Watson, and Dexferrum®, an iron dextran product marketed by American Regent, are approved in the U.S. for the treatment of patients with documented iron deficiency in whom oral iron administration is unsatisfactory or impossible. In addition to the currently marketed products described above, Feraheme may also compete in the U.S. with Injectafer®, which is known as Ferinject® in Europe, which is in development for a variety of anemia-related indications, including the treatment of IDA in CKD patients, whether or not on dialysis. In October 2011, Luitpold submitted a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA for Injectafer® for the treatment of IDA. The FDA has since notified Luitpold that it has assigned a Prescription Drug User Fee Act target action date of August 3, 2012 for the Injectafer® NDA. The Injectafer® NDA includes data and information from two new large randomized controlled clinical trials investigating the cardiovascular risk profile of high dose Injectafer®. If Injectafer® is approved by the FDA, it will be marketed and sold in the U.S. by American Regent, the current distributor of Venofer®. Feraheme will also compete with a number of branded IV iron replacement products outside of the U.S., including Venofer®, Ferrlecit®, Monofer® (iron isomaltoside 1000), Ferinject® (ferric carboxymaltose injection) (the brand name for Injectafer® outside the U.S.) and certain other iron dextran and iron sucrose products. Monofer® is an injectable iron preparation developed by Pharmacosmos A/S, or Pharmacosmos, which is currently approved for marketing in approximately 22 countries for the treatment of IDA. Pharmacosmos has ongoing clinical programs including studies of Monofer® in gastroenterology, oncology and nephrology. It is too early to determine whether Monofer® will gain any meaningful share of the IV iron market in any country in which it has been or may be approved. Ferinject® is an IV iron replacement therapy developed by Vifor Pharma, the pharmaceuticals business unit of the Galenica Group, and is currently approved for marketing in approximately 37 countries, including 30 countries within Europe, for the treatment of iron deficiency where oral iron is ineffective or cannot be used. Further trials with Ferinject® in CKD, oncology, cardiology, patient blood management and gynecology are ongoing. In December 2010, Vifor Pharma and Fresenius Medical Care North America announced that they had created a new company which will hold the commercialization rights to Venofer® and Ferinject® outside of the U.S. Venofer® and Ferrlecit® have been marketed in many countries throughout the world, including most of Europe and Canada, for many years. Feraheme will compete primarily with Venofer®, Ferinject® and Ferrlecit® in both the Canadian and European markets. Currently, all other approved IV iron products which are being marketed and sold in the EU are approved for marketing to all patients with IDA. Upon approval of our MAA, we expect Feraheme to be approved only for use in CKD patients, which could 13 Table of Contents put Feraheme at a competitive disadvantage unless and until it receives approval for a broader indication. The market opportunity for Feraheme in the U.S. and abroad could also be negatively affected by approved generic IV iron replacement therapy products that achieve commercial success. For example, in 2011, Watson launched Nulecit™, a generic version of Ferrlecit® in the U.S. Nulecit™ is approved for marketing in the U.S. for the treatment of IDA in adult patients and in pediatric patients age six years and older undergoing chronic hemodialysis who are receiving supplemental epoetin therapy. There are also a number of approved generic IV iron products in countries outside the U.S which will directly compete with Feraheme, including a generic version of Venofer®. Companies that manufacture generic products typically invest far less resources in research and development than the manufacturers of branded products and can therefore price their products significantly lower than those already on the market. Therefore, competition from generic IV iron products could limit our U.S. sales and any royalties we may receive from Takeda. For IV iron replacement therapy in patients with CKD, the total therapeutic course of iron typically used in clinical practice is 1,000 milligrams, or one gram. Venofer® is typically administered as a slow intravenous injection over two to five minutes in doses of 100 to 200 milligrams, thus requiring five to ten physician visits to reach a standard one gram therapeutic course. The recommended dose of Ferrlecit® and Nulecit™ is 125 milligrams administered by intravenous infusion over one hour per dialysis session or undiluted as a slow intravenous injection per dialysis session, thus requiring ten physician visits to reach a standard one gram therapeutic course. INFeD® and Dexferrum® are typically administered as a slow push in 100 milligram doses and also require up to ten physician visits to receive a standard one gram therapeutic course. Feraheme is administered as a 510 milligram injection followed by a second 510 milligram injection three to eight days later, each of which can be administered in less than one minute at a regular office visit without the use of infusion equipment or prolonged medical intervention. We believe that our ability to successfully compete with other IV iron products in the U.S. and internationally depends on a number of factors, including the actual or perceived safety and efficacy profile of Feraheme as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutics, our ability to obtain and maintain favorable pricing, insurance coverage and reimbursement for Feraheme, the timing and scope of regulatory approval of Feraheme for the broad IDA indication and of products or additional indications by our competitors, our ability to implement effective marketing campaigns, the effectiveness of our sales force, our ability to maintain favorable patent protection for Feraheme, market acceptance of Feraheme and our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme at commercially acceptable costs. In addition, our ability to effectively compete with these products in the non-dialysis CKD market depends in part upon our ability to gain formulary access in hospitals and effectively promote Feraheme within group purchasing organizations and to physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients. Based on sales data provided by IMS Health Incorporated, or IMS, we estimate that the size of the total 2011 U.S. IV iron replacement therapy non-dialysis market was approximately 792,000 grams, which represented an increase of approximately 6.1% over 2010. Based on this IMS data, the following 14 Table of Contents represents the 2011 and 2010 U.S. market share allocation of the total IV iron non-dialysis market based on the volume of IV iron administered: 2011 U.S. Non-dialysis IV Iron Market (792,000 grams) 2010 U.S. Non-dialysis IV Iron Market (746,000 grams) Venofer® 48 % 48 % INFeD® 20 % 20 % Feraheme 12 % 9 % Ferrlecit® 11 % 18 % Nulecit™ 5 % — Dexferrum® 4 % 5 % Sales, Marketing and Distribution In July 2009 we began U.S. commercial sale of Feraheme, which is being marketed and sold in the U.S. through our own commercial organization, including a specialized sales force. We sell Feraheme primarily through authorized wholesalers and specialty distributors who, in turn, sell Feraheme to nephrologists, hematologists/oncologists, hospitals and dialysis centers who treat patients with CKD. Since many hospitals and hematology, oncology and nephrology practices are members of group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective bargaining power of the group, we also routinely enter into contracts with GPOs in these segments so the members of the GPOs have access to Feraheme and the related discounts. In addition, we outsource a number of our product supply chain services to third-party vendors, including services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and customer service call center management. Our sales and marketing teams use a variety of common pharmaceutical marketing strategies to promote Feraheme including sales calls to individual physicians or other healthcare professionals, medical education symposia, personal and non-personal promotional materials, local and national educational programs, scientific meetings and conferences and informational websites. In addition, we provide customer service and other related programs for Feraheme including physician reimbursement support services, a patient assistance program for uninsured or under-insured patients and a customer service call center. Our commercial strategy currently focuses on the non-dialysis dependent CKD market in the U.S. We estimate that there are 1.6 million adults in the U.S. with stages 3 through 5 CKD and IDA, and we believe that a small fraction of those patients are currently being treated with IV iron. We believe there is a significant opportunity in this market to provide IV iron to non-dialysis CKD patients, and our sales team has been working to educate physicians who treat CKD patients on the benefits of IV iron and the dosing profile of Feraheme in order to change existing treatment paradigms and expand the IV iron use in physicians' offices, clinics, and hospitals where CKD patients are treated. In December 2011, Feraheme was granted marketing approval in Canada for use as an IV iron replacement therapy for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with CKD. Under our agreement with Takeda, Takeda will be solely responsible for Feraheme commercialization efforts in Canada including the deployment of a specialized sales force, pricing and reimbursement negotiations with provincial health authorities and customers, and development of market access strategies. The following table sets forth customers who represented 10% or more of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. Revenues from Takeda related solely to 15 Table of Contents collaboration revenue recognized in connection with our agreement with Takeda, which we entered into in March 2010. For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation 41 % 36 % 46 % McKesson Corporation 21 % <10 % <10 % Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company Limited 13 % <10 % — Cardinal Health, Inc. 13 % <10 % <10 % Metro Medical Supply, Inc. <10 % 21 % 28 % Government Regulation Overview The development, manufacture and commercialization of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and abroad. In the U.S., the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act, and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the research and development, manufacturing, quality control (testing), labeling, record-keeping, approval, storage, distribution, and advertising and promotion of pharmaceutical products. In addition, many of our activities in the U.S. are subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. A number of states have also enacted, or are considering enacting, legislation to control pharmaceutical marketing activities, such as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, or the Sunshine Act. Our activities outside of the U.S. are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of Feraheme. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from country to country and the time required for approval may also vary from country to country. In Europe, Canada and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. Failure to comply with any of the applicable U.S. or foreign regulatory requirements may result in a variety of administrative or judicially imposed sanctions including among other things, the regulatory agency's refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals of approval, clinical holds, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. The development and approval of a product candidate requires a significant number of years of work and the expenditure of substantial resources, and is often subject to unanticipated delays and may be subject to new legislation or regulations. In addition to complying with requirements as they currently exist, a sponsor could be negatively impacted by changes in the regulatory framework. From time to time, legislation is introduced that could significantly alter laws pertaining to the approval, manufacturing, pricing, and/or marketing of drug products. Even without changes to relevant laws, U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies could release new guidance or revise its implementation of current regulations in a manner that significantly affects us and our products, including our ability to receive marketing approval for new indications for Feraheme. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether regulations or guidance will be amended or supplemented, or the potential impact of such changes. 16 Table of Contents U.S. Approval Process Clinical Development Before new human pharmaceutical products may be marketed or sold commercially in the U.S., the FDA requires the following steps: (a) pre-clinical laboratory tests, pre-clinical safety and efficacy studies and formulation studies; (b) the submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence; (c) adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials under current good clinical practices to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for its intended use; (d) submission of an NDA to the FDA; (e) approval and validation of manufacturing facilities used in production of the pharmaceutical product under cGMP; and (f) review and approval of the NDA by the FDA. Pre-clinical studies include the laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of a product and its formulation. The results of such laboratory tests and animal studies are submitted to the FDA as a part of an IND and are reviewed by the FDA prior to and during human clinical trials. If there are no objections from the FDA within 30 days of filing an IND, a sponsor may proceed with initial studies in human volunteers, also known as clinical trials. Clinical trials are typically conducted in the following three sequential phases, which may overlap in some instances: •Phase I: Clinical trials which involve the initial administration of the study drug to a small group of healthy human volunteers (or, more rarely, to a group of selected patients with the targeted disease or disorder) under the supervision of a principal investigator selected by the sponsor. These Phase I trials are designed to test for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and clinical pharmacology and, if possible, early indications of effectiveness. •Phase II: Clinical trials which involve a small sample of the actual intended patient population and aim to: (a) provide a preliminary assessment of the efficacy of the investigational drug for a specific clinical indication; (b) ascertain dose tolerance and optimal dose range; and (c) collect additional clinical information relating to safety and potential adverse effects. •Phase III: If an investigational drug is found through Phase I and Phase II studies to have some efficacy and an acceptable clinical safety profile in the targeted patient population, Phase III studies can be initiated. Phase III studies are well-controlled comparative studies designed to gather additional information within an expanded patient population in geographically dispersed clinical trial sites in order to further establish safety and efficacy in conditions that the drug will be used if approved for marketing. The FDA may suspend clinical trials at any point in this process if it concludes that patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In addition, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which may delay, limit or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Submission and FDA Review of an NDA Following the successful completion of Phase I, II, and III clinical trials, the results of the trials, together with the results of pre-clinical tests and studies, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA. The NDA must also include information related to the preparation and manufacturing of the new drug, analytical methods, and proposed product packaging and labeling. When the NDA is submitted, the FDA has 60 days from receipt to determine whether the application is sufficiently complete to merit a 17 Table of Contents substantive review and should therefore be "filed." If the FDA determines that the application is incomplete, it must notify the sponsor through a "refusal-to-file" letter, and the sponsor then has the option to resubmit the NDA after addressing the concerns raised by the FDA. If the FDA accepts the NDA for filing, the NDA undergoes a series of reviews intended to confirm and validate the sponsor's conclusion that the drug is safe and effective for its proposed use. Under the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act, an NDA is designated for either Standard Review or Priority Review. A Priority Review designation may be given if a new drug offers major advancements in treatment or provides a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. The FDA has, pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, set a goal that it review and act upon 90% of NDAs with a Standard Review designation within ten months of their receipt and 90% of NDAs with a Priority Review designation within six months of their receipt. However, whether an NDA is designated for a Standard or Priority Review, there is no guarantee that any single submission will be acted on within these time frames, and the FDA's goals are subject to change from time to time. In addition, FDA review of a drug development program may proceed under its "Fast Track" programs, which are intended for a combination of a product and a claim that addresses an unmet medical need. Fast Track is designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of new drugs that are intended to treat serious or life threatening conditions and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. A Fast Track designation provides the sponsor the benefits of scheduling meetings when needed to receive FDA input into development plans, the option of submitting an NDA in sections rather than all components simultaneously, or a rolling review, and the option of requesting evaluation of studies using surrogate endpoints. Fast Track status does not, however, necessarily lead to a Priority Review or Accelerated Approval designation. If the FDA's evaluations of the NDA and the sponsor's manufacturing facilities are favorable, the FDA will issue an approval letter, and the sponsor may begin marketing the drug in the U.S. for the approved indications, subject to certain universal post-approval requirements described further below. The FDA may also impose drug-specific conditions on its approval, such as requirements for additional post-marketing testing or surveillance. If the FDA determines that it cannot approve the NDA in its current form, it will issue a complete response letter to indicate that the review cycle for an application is complete and that the application will not be approved in its current form. The complete response letter usually describes the specific deficiencies that the FDA identified in the application and may require additional clinical or other data or impose other conditions that must be met in order to obtain final approval of the NDA. Addressing the deficiencies noted by the FDA could be impractical or costly and may result in significant delays prior to final approval. Adverse Event Reporting The FDA requires a sponsor to submit reports of certain information on side effects and adverse events associated with its products that occur either during clinical trials or after marketing approval. These requirements include specific and timely notification of certain serious, unexpected and/or frequent adverse events, as well as regular periodic reports summarizing adverse drug experiences. Failure to comply with these FDA safety reporting requirements may result in FDA regulatory action that may include civil action or criminal penalties. In addition, as a result of these reports, the FDA could create a Tracked Safety Issue for a product in the FDA's Document Archiving, Reporting and Regulatory Tracking System, place additional limitations on an approved product's use, such as through labeling changes, or, potentially, could require withdrawal or suspension of the product from the market. FDA Post-Approval Requirements Even if initial approval of an NDA is granted, such approval is subject to a wide-range of regulatory requirements, any or all of which may adversely impact a sponsor's ability to effectively 18 Table of Contents market and sell the approved product. Furthermore, the FDA may require the sponsor to conduct Phase IV clinical trials, also known as post-marketing requirements or post-marketing commitments, to provide additional information on safety and efficacy. The results of such post-market studies may be negative and could lead to limitations on the further marketing of a product. Also, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, the FDA may require pediatric assessment of certain drugs unless waived or deferred due to the fact that necessary studies are impossible or highly impractical to conduct or where there is strong evidence that suggests the drug would be ineffective or unsafe or that the drug does not represent a meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing therapies and is not likely to be used in a substantial number of pediatric patients. In addition, the FDA may require a sponsor to implement a Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, a strategy to manage a known or potential serious risk associated with the product. The FDA may, either prior to approval or subsequent to approval if new safety data arises, require a REMS if it determines that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of the product outweigh its risks. A REMS may include a medication guide, patient package insert, a plan for communication with healthcare providers, elements to ensure safe use of the product, and an implementation system. A REMS must also include a timetable for submission of assessments of the strategy at specified time intervals. Failure to comply with a REMS, including submission of a required assessment, may result in substantial civil penalties. Where a sponsor wishes to expand the originally approved prescribing information, such as adding a new indication, it must submit and obtain approval of a sNDA. Changes to an indication generally require additional clinical studies, which can be time-consuming and require the expenditure of substantial additional resources. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the timeframe for the review of a sNDA to add a new clinical indication is ten months. FDA Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion The FDA also regulates all advertising and promotional activities for products, both prior to and after approval, including but not limited to direct-to-consumer advertising, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming, and promotional activities involving the internet, publications, radio and TV as well as other media. Approved drug products must be promoted in a manner consistent with their terms and conditions of approval, including the scope of their approved use. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product, or off-label promotion, or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements could lead to, among other things, adverse publicity, product seizures, civil or criminal penalties, or regulatory letters, which may include warnings and require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Facilities Manufacturing procedures and quality control for approved drugs must conform to cGMP, which practices are described in the FDC Act and FDA guidance. cGMP requirements must be followed at all times, and domestic manufacturing establishments are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA in order to assess, among other things, cGMP compliance. In addition, prior to approval of an NDA or sNDA, the FDA will perform a pre-approval inspection of the sponsor's manufacturing facility, including its equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes, to determine the facility's compliance with cGMP and other rules and regulations. Vendors that supply finished products or components to the sponsor that are used to manufacture, package and label products are subject to similar regulation and periodic inspections. If the FDA identifies deficiencies during an inspection, it may issue notices on FDA Form 483 followed by warning letters listing conditions the FDA investigators believe may violate cGMP or other FDA regulations. FDA guidelines specify that a warning letter be issued only for 19 Table of Contents violations of "regulatory significance" for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action. Product approval may be delayed or denied due to cGMP non-compliance or other issues at the sponsor's manufacturing facilities or contractor sites or suppliers included in the NDA or sNDA, and the complete resolution of these inspectional findings may be beyond the sponsor's control. If after a successful completion of an FDA inspection of a sponsor's manufacturing facilities, the sponsor makes a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. Re-inspection of the sponsor's manufacturing facilities or contractor sites or suppliers may also occur. If the FDA determines that the sponsor's equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against the sponsor, including suspension of its manufacturing operations. To supply products for use in the U.S., foreign manufacturing establishments must also comply with cGMP and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA or by regulatory authorities in certain of such countries under reciprocal agreements with the FDA. In complying with these requirements, manufacturers, including a drug sponsor's third-party contract manufacturers, must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality to ensure compliance. Failure to maintain compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various regulatory agencies could result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall, total or partial suspension of production, suspension of the FDA's review of future sNDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution. Fraud and abuse regulation Our general operations, and the research, development, manufacture, sale and marketing of our products, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, including but not limited to FDA regulations, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Federal False Claims Act, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug, that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, false or fraudulent claims for reimbursed drugs or services, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. If we or our representatives fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we market and sell Feraheme, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation, or other sanctions. Other U.S. Regulatory Requirements We are also subject to regulation under local, state and federal law regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, handling of chemicals, environmental protection and hazardous substances control. We possess a Byproduct Materials License from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for receipt, possession, manufacturing and distribution of radioactive materials and Registration Certificates from the federal Drug Enforcement Agency and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Public Health for handling controlled substances. We are also registered with the federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, as a generator of hazardous waste. All hazardous waste disposals must be made in accordance with EPA and Commonwealth of Massachusetts requirements. We are subject to 20 Table of Contents the regulations of the Occupational Safety and Health Act and have a safety program in effect to assure compliance with all of these regulations. We believe our procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials used in our research and development activities comply with all applicable federal, state and local requirements. Nevertheless, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated and, in the event of an accident or injury, we could be held liable for any damages that result. Certain states also require that we obtain licenses or permits as an out-of-state distributor or manufacturer in order to market, sell and/or ship our pharmaceutical products into their state. We have obtained licenses and permits in some states and, depending on our future activities, may also need to obtain additional licenses or permits in other areas where we decide to manufacture, market or sell our products. New laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require us to modify our development programs, revise the way we manufacture, market and sell our products, require additional clinical trials or post-approval safety studies, or limit coverage or reimbursement for our products. In recent years, several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies operating within the state to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs or codes of conduct and/or file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered by additional states and by Congress. In addition, as part of The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the Health Care Reform Act, the federal government has enacted the Sunshine Act provisions. Beginning in 2013, manufacturers of drugs will be required to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions. Foreign Regulatory Process In our efforts to market and sell Feraheme outside of the U.S., we and our licensees are subject to foreign regulatory requirements. Approval of a drug by applicable regulatory agencies of foreign countries must be secured prior to the marketing of such drug in those countries. The regulatory approval process in countries outside of the U.S. vary widely from country to country and may in some cases be more rigorous than requirements in the U.S. Certain foreign regulatory authorities may require additional studies or studies designed with different clinical endpoints and/or comparators than those which we are conducting or have already completed. In addition, any adverse regulatory action taken by the FDA with respect to an approved product in the U.S. may affect the regulatory requirements or decisions made by certain foreign regulatory bodies with regard to the regulatory approval of products outside of the U.S. To obtain regulatory approval of a drug in the EU, marketing authorizations may be submitted under a centralized, mutual recognition or decentralized procedure or national procedure (single country). Under the centralized procedure, the sponsor can submit a single application to the EMA which, if approved, permits the marketing of a product in all EU Member States. Under the mutual recognition procedure, the sponsor applies for national marketing authorization in one state, and upon approval can then seek simultaneous approval in all other EU Member States. Under the decentralized procedure, the sponsor can file simultaneously to several EU Member States, identifying a single reference member state to act as the primary reviewer of the application. Upon approval, the product will be licensed only in the reference member state and the other countries to which it applied. Once an applicant receives marketing authorization in an EU Member State, through any application route, the applicant is then required to engage in pricing discussions and negotiations with a separate pricing authority in that country. In certain countries, commercial sales are only able to commence once 21 Table of Contents pricing approval has been received. In addition, all products irrespective of the method of filing, are afforded 10 years of exclusivity and eight years of data protection upon approval. In June 2010, we submitted our MAA seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients with the EMA under the centralized procedure. We expect a recommendation from the CHMP on our MAA submission in 2012. Assuming a positive CHMP recommendation, we expect a final decision on our MAA by the European Commission shortly thereafter. The Canadian pharmaceutical industry is subject to federal regulation by Health Canada pursuant to the Canadian federal Food and Drugs Act. Health Canada's criteria for obtaining and maintaining marketing approval is generally similar to that of the FDA. In December 2011, Feraheme was granted marketing approval by Health Canada for use as an IV iron replacement therapy for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with CKD. In addition, in August 2010, Takeda filed an MAA with Swissmedic, the Swiss Agency for Therapeutic Products, seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients. We expect a decision from Swissmedic during 2012. Reimbursement In both the U.S. and foreign markets, our and Takeda's ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme is and will be dependent, in significant part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement to end-users from third-party payors for the use of Feraheme, including governmental payors, managed care organizations, private health insurers, and other third-party payors. Reimbursement by a third-party payor depends on a number of factors, including the third-party's determination that the product is competitively priced, safe and effective, appropriate for the specific patient, and cost-effective. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and have instituted and continue to institute cost containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products. For example, to reduce expenditures associated with pharmaceutical products, many third-party payors use cost containment methods, including: (a) formularies, which limit coverage for drugs not included on a predetermined list; (b) step therapy, which is a program used to encourage the use of lower cost alternative treatments; (c) variable co-payments, which may make a certain drug more expensive for patients as compared with a competing drug; and (d) utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization before the payor will cover the drug or other coverage policies that limit access to certain drugs for certain uses based on the payor specific coverage policy. In addition, the U.S. and many foreign governments continue to attempt to curb health care costs through legislation, including legislation aimed at reducing the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products. The Health Care Reform Act was enacted in the U.S. in March 2010 and includes certain cost containment measures including an increase to the minimum rebates for products covered by Medicaid programs and the extension of such rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations as well as the expansion of the 340(B) Public Health Services drug discount program. More recently, in August 2011, the President of the United States signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which is expected to result in significant federal spending cuts including cuts in Medicare and other health related spending, including a potential 27.4% reduction in payment rates for physician services. The full impact of this new law on our business is uncertain. In recent years some states have also passed legislation to control the prices of drugs as well as begun a move toward managed care to relieve some of their Medicaid cost burden. These and any future changes in government regulation may reduce the extent of reimbursement for Feraheme and adversely affect our future operating results. Currently, in physician clinic settings, Medicare Part B generally reimburses for physician-administered drugs at a rate of 106% of the drug's average selling price, or ASP. Beginning in 2012, 22 Table of Contents Feraheme will be reimbursed at a rate of 104% of ASP in the hospital outpatient setting. ASP is defined by statute based on certain historical sales and sales incentive data, including rebates and chargebacks, for a defined period of time. Manufacturers submit the required information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, on a quarterly basis. CMS then confirms and publishes the ASP for products in advance of the quarter in which the ASP will go into effect. Under this methodology, payment rates change on a quarterly basis, and significant downward fluctuations in ASP, and therefore reimbursement rates, could negatively impact sales of a product. Because ASP is defined by statute, and changes to Medicare payment methodologies require legislative change, it is unclear if and when ASP reimbursement methodology will change. We cannot predict the impact any changes in reimbursement policies may have on our ability to compete effectively. On January 1, 2011, a prospective payment system for dialysis services provided to Medicare beneficiaries who have end-stage renal disease, or ESRD, became effective under which all costs of providing dialysis services are bundled together into a single prospective payment per treatment. This bundled approach to reimbursement has and will likely continue to alter the utilization of physician-administered drugs in the ESRD market as well as put downward pressure on the prices pharmaceutical companies can charge ESRD facilities for such drugs, particularly where alternative products are available. In the U.S., Feraheme is sold at a price that is substantially higher than alternative IV iron products in the dialysis setting, and as a result, the demand for Feraheme in the dialysis setting has largely disappeared. While the prospective payment system provisions apply only to Medicare, Medicare is the predominant payor in the ESRD market, and Medicare payment policy, in time, can also influence pricing and reimbursement in the non-Medicare markets, as private third-party payors and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting reimbursement methodologies, particularly in the ESRD setting. In addition, in the hospital in-patient setting, Feraheme is reimbursed by Medicare under a diagnosis related group payment system, which provides a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatments, thereby increasing the incentive for a hospital to limit or control expenditures. As a result, Feraheme has not been nor do we expect it to be broadly used in the hospital in-patient setting. In countries outside of the U.S., market acceptance may also depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within existing healthcare payment systems. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside of the U.S., the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payor of healthcare costs of patients and therefore enjoys significant market power. Some foreign countries also set prices for pharmaceutical products as part of the regulatory process, and we cannot guarantee that the prices set by such governments will be sufficient to generate substantial revenues or allow sales of Ferahame to be profitable in those countries. If adequate reimbursement levels are not maintained by government and other third-party payors for Feraheme, our ability to sell Feraheme may be limited and/or our ability to establish acceptable pricing levels for Feraheme may be impaired, thereby reducing anticipated revenues and our prospects of achieving profitability. Backlog Generally, we do not have a significant backlog. Product orders from our customers are typically fulfilled within a relatively short time of receipt of a customer order. We had a $0.1 million and $0.2 million product sales backlog as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Employees As of February 16, 2012, we had 174 employees. We also utilize consultants and independent contractors on a regular basis to assist in the development and commercialization of Feraheme. Our 23 Table of Contents success depends in part on our ability to recruit and retain talented and trained scientific, clinical, regulatory, manufacturing, and commercial personnel, as well as senior management. Although we believe we have been relatively successful to date in obtaining and retaining such personnel, we may not be successful in the future. None of our employees is represented by a labor union, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Foreign Operations We have no foreign operations. Revenues from customers outside of the U.S. amounted to approximately 14% and 10% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and were principally related to collaboration revenues recognized in connection with our agreement with Takeda, which is based in Japan. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 from customers outside of the U.S., principally in France, amounted to 2% of our total revenues. Research and Development We have dedicated a significant portion of our resources to our efforts to develop our products and product candidates, particularly Feraheme. We incurred research and development expenses of $58.1 million, $54.5 million and $36.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We anticipate that a significant portion of our operating expenses will continue to be related to research and development in 2012 as we seek to obtain marketing approval for Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S. and expand the approved indications for Feraheme in the U.S. Code of Ethics Our Board has adopted a code of ethics that applies to our officers, directors and employees. We have posted the text of our code of ethics on our website at http://www.amagpharma.com in the "Investors" section. In addition, subject to NASDAQ regulations, we intend to promptly disclose (1) the nature of any amendment to our code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions and (2) the nature of any waiver, including an implicit waiver, from a provision of our code of ethics that is granted to one of these specified officers, the name of such person who is granted the waiver, and the date of the waiver on our website (or in any other medium required by law or the NASDAQ) in the future. Available Information Our internet website address is http://www.amagpharma.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. These SEC reports can be accessed through the "Investors" section of our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Paper copies of our SEC reports are available free of charge upon request in writing to Investor Relations, AMAG Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 100 Hayden Avenue, Lexington, MA 02421. The content on any website referred to in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. For additional information regarding our segments, refer to Note L of the Notes to Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: The following is a summary description of some of the material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following statements should be carefully considered in evaluating us. We are solely dependent on the success of Feraheme. We currently derive and expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of Feraheme by us in the U.S. and by our licensees, including Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Takeda, outside of the U.S. and, therefore, our ability to become profitable is solely dependent on our and our licensees' successful commercialization and development of Feraheme. We currently sell only one other product, GastroMARK, in the U.S. and in certain foreign jurisdictions through our licensees. However, sales of GastroMARK have been at approximately their current levels for many years, and we do not expect sales of GastroMARK to materially increase. Accordingly, if we are unable to generate sufficient revenues from sales of Feraheme, we may never be profitable, our financial condition will be materially adversely affected, and our business prospects will be limited. We intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to our Feraheme development efforts. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to expand the Feraheme package insert to include additional indications or obtain marketing approval for Feraheme in additional geographies. Although we have completed enrollment in our global registration program for Feraheme for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia, or IDA, regardless of the underlying cause, we are not currently conducting or sponsoring research to expand our product development pipeline beyond Feraheme and therefore our revenues and operations will not be as diversified as some of our competitors which have multiple products or product candidates. Any failure by us to gain marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment IDA regardless of the underlying cause, gain marketing approval for Feraheme in new geographies, or acquire, develop and commercialize additional products and product candidates, could limit long-term shareholder value and adversely affect the future prospects of our business. We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. We have a history of significant operating losses, we may not be profitable in the future, and if we do attain profitability, such profitability may not be sustainable. In the past, we have financed our operations primarily from the sale of our equity securities, cash from sales of Feraheme, cash generated by our investing activities, and payments from our licensees. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $439.9 million. Our losses were primarily the result of costs incurred in our efforts to manufacture, market and sell Feraheme, including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure and marketing and promotion costs, research and development costs, such as costs associated with our clinical trials, and selling, general and administrative costs. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses to manufacture, market and sell Feraheme as an intravenous, or IV, iron replacement therapeutic for use in adult chronic kidney disease, or CKD, patients in the U.S., to further develop and seek marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients and to obtain marketing approval for Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S. As a result, we will need to generate sufficient revenues in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability. We anticipate that the vast majority of any revenue we generate in the near future will be from sales of Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent for use in adult CKD patients in the U.S., milestone payments we may receive from Takeda upon regulatory approval and commercial launch of Feraheme in Canada and the European Union, or EU, and royalties we may receive with respect to sales of Feraheme in Canada and in the EU under our License, Development and Commercialization Agreement, or the Takeda Agreement, which we entered into with Takeda in 2010. We have never independently marketed or sold any products prior to Feraheme, 25 Table of Contents and we or Takeda may not be successful in marketing or selling Feraheme. If we or Takeda are not successful in marketing and selling Feraheme, if revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to achieve, maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, the market price of our common stock may decline. Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise with respect to Feraheme, which could result in restrictions in Feraheme's label, recalls, withdrawal of Feraheme from the market, an adverse impact on Feraheme sales, or cause us to alter or terminate current or future Feraheme development programs, any of which would adversely impact our future business prospects. Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise with respect to Feraheme, including an increase in the severity or frequency of known problems or the discovery of previously unknown problems, and may result in a variety of adverse regulatory actions. In the U.S., under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, has broad authority to force drug manufacturers to take any number of actions if safety or drug interaction problems arise, including, but not limited to: (i) requiring manufacturers to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess known risks or signals of serious risks, or to identify unexpected serious risks; (ii) mandating labeling changes to a product based on new safety information; or (iii) requiring manufacturers to implement a Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategy where necessary to assure safe use of the drug. Similar laws and regulations exist in countries outside of the U.S. In addition, previously unknown safety or drug interaction problems could result in product recalls, restrictions on the product's permissible uses, or withdrawal of the product from the U.S. and/or foreign markets. The data submitted to both the FDA as part of our New Drug Application, or NDA, and to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, as part of our Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, for Feraheme in the CKD indication was obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. New safety or drug interaction issues may arise as Feraheme is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients some of whom may be taking numerous other medicines or by patients with additional underlying health problems. In addition, as we conduct and complete other clinical trials for Feraheme, new safety issues may be identified which could negatively impact our ability to successfully complete these studies, the use and/or regulatory status of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in patients with CKD in the U.S., EU or other territories, and the prospects for approval of future supplemental New Drug Applications, or sNDAs, such as our planned 2012 sNDA submission for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA regardless of the underlying cause. New safety or drug interaction issues may require us to, among other things, provide additional warnings and/or restrictions on the Feraheme package insert, including a boxed warning in the U.S. or similar warnings outside of the U.S., directly alert healthcare providers of new safety information, narrow our approved indications, alter or terminate current or planned trials for additional uses of Feraheme, or even remove Feraheme from the market, any of which could have a significant adverse impact on potential sales of Feraheme or require us to expend significant additional funds. For example, in November 2010, following discussions with the FDA, we revised the Feraheme package insert to include bolded warnings and precautions that describe events that have been reported after Feraheme administration in the post-marketing environment, including life-threatening hypersensitivity reactions and clinically significant hypotension. We also directly alerted healthcare providers of the changes to the Feraheme package insert. During June 2011, we made further changes to the Feraheme package insert based on additional post-marketing data. These or any future changes to the Feraheme package insert could adversely impact our or Takeda's ability to successfully compete in the IV iron market and could have an adverse impact on potential sales of Feraheme and our future business prospects. In addition, as more data become available and an increased number of patients are 26 Table of Contents treated with Feraheme, we may be required to make further changes to the Feraheme package insert in the U.S. or other territories, including the inclusion of a boxed warning in the U.S. or similar warnings outside of the U.S., directly alert healthcare providers of new safety information, narrow our approved indications, alter or terminate current or planned trials for additional uses of Feraheme, or even remove Feraheme from the market. Feraheme may not be widely adopted by physicians, hospitals, patients, or healthcare payors, which would adversely impact our potential profitability and future business prospects. The commercial success of Feraheme in the U.S. and in other territories depends upon its level of market adoption by physicians, hospitals, patients, and healthcare payors, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. If Feraheme does not achieve an adequate level of market adoption for any reason, our potential profitability and our future business prospects will be severely adversely impacted. Feraheme represents an alternative to other products and might not be adopted if perceived to be no safer, less safe, no more effective, less effective, no more convenient, or less convenient than currently available products. In addition, the pricing and/or reimbursement for Feraheme may not be viewed as attractive as the pricing and/or reimbursement of alternative IV iron products. The degree of market acceptance of Feraheme in the U.S. and abroad depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: •Our and Takeda's ability to demonstrate to healthcare providers, particularly hematologists, oncologists, hospitals, nephrologists, and others who may purchase or prescribe Feraheme, the clinical efficacy and safety of Feraheme as an alternative to currently marketed IV iron products which treat IDA in CKD patients; •Our and Takeda's ability to convince physicians and other healthcare providers to use IV iron, and Feraheme in particular, rather than oral iron, which is the current treatment of choice of most physicians for treating IDA in CKD patients. •The actual or perceived safety and efficacy profile of Feraheme compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents, particularly if unanticipated adverse reactions to Feraheme result in further changes to or restrictions in the Feraheme package insert and/or otherwise create safety concerns among potential prescribers; •The results of our two Phase III multi-center clinical trials to assess Feraheme in patients with IDA regardless of the underlying cause, including the results of the first of such trials which we announced in March 2012, which could impact the actual or perceived safety profile of Feraheme compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents; •The relative level of available reimbursement for Feraheme from payors, including government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., and private payors as compared to the level of available reimbursement for alternative IV iron products; •The relative price of Feraheme as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents; •The actual or perceived convenience and ease of administration of Feraheme as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents; and •The effectiveness of our and Takeda's commercial organizations and distribution networks. We are approved to market and sell Feraheme for use in both dialysis and non-dialysis adult CKD patients in the U.S. However, Feraheme sales in the U.S. dialysis market have recently declined significantly due, in large part, to the 2011 implementation of the prospective payment system for end stage renal disease, or ESRD, drugs like Feraheme, which has made it far less likely that dialysis providers would choose to use higher priced products like Feraheme in treating their dialysis patients. Accordingly, we expect sales of Feraheme in the U.S. dialysis market to represent an insignificant 27 Table of Contents portion of our total U.S. sales going forward. As a result, unless we capture a significant share of the U.S. non-dialysis CKD market, potential U.S. Feraheme sales, our potential profitability and our future business prospects will be materially adversely impacted. The key component of our U.S. commercialization strategy is to market and sell Feraheme for use in non-dialysis adult CKD patients. The current U.S. non-dialysis CKD market is comprised primarily of three sites of care where a substantial number of CKD patients are treated: hematology and oncology clinics, hospitals, and nephrology clinics. IV iron therapeutic products are not currently widely used by certain physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients in the U.S., particularly nephrologists, due to safety concerns and the inconvenience and often impracticability of administering IV iron therapeutic products in their offices. It is often difficult to change physicians' existing treatment paradigms even when supportive clinical data is available. In addition, our ability to effectively market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. hospital market depends in part upon our ability to achieve acceptance of Feraheme onto hospital formularies. Since many hospitals and hematology, oncology and nephrology practices are members of GPOs, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective bargaining power of the group, our ability to attract customers in these sites of care also depends in part on our ability to effectively promote Feraheme within GPOs. If we are not successful in effectively promoting Feraheme to physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients in the U.S. or if we are not successful in securing and maintaining formulary coverage for Feraheme or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving wide-spread U.S. market acceptance of Feraheme in the non-dialysis CKD market and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability, and our long-term business prospects could be adversely affected. We depend, to a significant degree, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors for the use of Feraheme, and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement could adversely affect our Feraheme sales revenues and results of operations. In both the U.S. and foreign markets, our and Takeda's ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme is and will be dependent, in significant part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement to end-users from third-party payors for the use of Feraheme, including governmental payors, managed care organizations, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Reimbursement by a third-party payor depends on a number of factors, including the third-party's determination that the product is competitively priced, safe and effective, appropriate for the specific patient, and cost-effective. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and have instituted and continue to institute cost containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products. If these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement for Feraheme or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, physicians and other healthcare providers may choose to use alternative IV iron replacement products, which would have an adverse affect on our ability to generate revenues. In addition, U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of health care. In the U.S., the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the Health Care Reform Act, was enacted in March 2010 and includes certain cost containment measures including an increase to the minimum rebates for products covered by Medicaid programs and the extension of such rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations as well as the expansion of the 340(B) Public Health Services drug discount program. More recently, in August 2011, the President of the United States signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which is expected to result in significant federal spending cuts including cuts in Medicare and other health related spending, such as a potential 27.4% reduction in payment rates for physician services. The full impact on our business of these new laws is uncertain. In recent years some states have also passed 28 Table of Contents legislation to control the prices of drugs as well as begun a move toward managed care to relieve some of their Medicaid cost burden. These and any other future changes in government regulations or private third-party payors' reimbursement policies may reduce the extent of reimbursement for Feraheme and adversely affect our future operating results. The phase-in of the ESRD expanded prospective payment system began in the U.S. on January 1, 2011, and must be completed by January 1, 2014. This bundled approach to reimbursement has and will likely continue to alter the utilization of physician-administered drugs in the ESRD market as well as put downward pressure on the prices pharmaceutical companies can charge ESRD facilities for such drugs, particularly where alternative products are available. In the U.S., Feraheme is sold at a price that is substantially higher than alternative IV iron products in the dialysis setting, and as a result, the demand for Feraheme in the dialysis setting has largely disappeared. While the prospective payment system provisions apply only to Medicare, Medicare is the predominant payor in the ESRD market, and Medicare payment policy, in time, can also influence pricing and reimbursement in the non-Medicare markets, as private third-party payors and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting reimbursement methodologies, particularly in the ESRD setting. Further changes in the Medicare reimbursement rate, particularly with respect to ESRD patients who are not on dialysis, which result in lower payment rates from either or both Medicare and non-Medicare payors, would further limit our ability to successfully market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. In addition, in the hospital in-patient setting, Feraheme is reimbursed by Medicare under a diagnosis related group payment system, which provides a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatments, thereby increasing the incentive for a hospital to limit or control expenditures. As a result, Feraheme has not been nor do we expect it to be broadly used in the hospital in-patient setting. In countries outside of the U.S., market acceptance may also depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within existing healthcare payment systems. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside of the U.S., the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payor of healthcare costs of patients and therefore enjoys significant market power. Some foreign countries also set prices for pharmaceutical products as part of the regulatory process, and we cannot guarantee that the prices set by such governments will be sufficient to generate substantial revenues or allow sales of Feraheme to be profitable in those countries. Any such limitations on the reimbursement for Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S. would have an adverse impact on Takeda's ability to generate product sales of Feraheme in such territories, which would, in turn, limit the amount of royalties we may receive under our agreement with Takeda. In the U.S. there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state healthcare initiatives implemented to reform the healthcare system in ways that could adversely impact our business and our ability to sell Feraheme profitably. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the U.S. healthcare system. For example, the Health Care Reform Act contains a number of provisions that significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry and may negatively affect our potential Feraheme revenues. Among other things, the Health Care Reform Act increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, extended the rebate provisions to Medicaid managed care organizations, and expanded the 340(b) Public Health Services drug pricing program. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been added, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare providers and potentially incur additional costs. While we are continuing to evaluate this legislation and its potential impact on our business, this legislation may adversely affect the demand for Feraheme in the U.S. or cause us to incur additional expenses and therefore adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the state level in the U.S. We cannot predict the impact that newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. We expect that there will continue to be a number of U.S. federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls and limit the growth of healthcare costs. These efforts could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting the prices that can be charged for Feraheme or the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or third-party payors, limiting the profitability of Feraheme, increasing our rebate liability or limiting the commercial opportunity for Feraheme. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries is intense. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are or are perceived to be more effective, safer, more convenient or have more favorable pricing, insurance coverage and reimbursement than Feraheme, the commercial opportunity for Feraheme in the U.S. and abroad will be adversely impacted. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid technological change. We and Takeda have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally, and many may have greater financial and other resources, and more experienced trade, sales, reimbursement and manufacturing organizations than we or Takeda do. In addition, many of our and Takeda's competitors have significant name recognition, more established positions in the IV iron market and long-standing relationships with customers and distributors. Our Feraheme commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop, commercialize or acquire or license technologies and drug products that are or are perceived to be safer, more effective, and/or easier to administer, or have more favorable pricing, insurance coverage and reimbursement than Feraheme. Feraheme currently competes with several IV iron replacement therapies in the U.S., including Venofer®, which is marketed in the U.S. by Fresenius Medical Care North America and American Regent Laboratories, Inc., or American Regent, a subsidiary of Luitpold Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Luitpold, Ferrlecit®, which is marketed by Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC, Nulecit™, a generic version of Ferrlecit®, which is marketed by Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Watson, INFeD®, an iron dextran product marketed by Watson, and Dexferrum®, an iron dextran product marketed by American Regent. Feraheme will also compete with a number of branded IV iron replacement products outside of the U.S., including Venofer®, Ferrlecit®, Monofer®, Ferinject® (the brand name for Injectafer® outside the U.S.) and certain other iron dextran and iron sucrose products. Monofer® is an injectable iron preparation developed by Pharmacosmos A/S, which is currently approved for marketing in approximately 22 countries for the treatment of IDA. Ferinject® is currently approved for marketing in approximately 37 countries, including approximately 30 countries within Europe, for the treatment of iron deficiency where oral iron is ineffective or cannot be used. Venofer® and Ferrlecit® have been marketed in many countries throughout the world, including most of Europe and Canada, for many years. Feraheme will compete primarily with Venofer®, Ferinject® and Ferrlecit® in both the Canadian and European markets. If Takeda is unable to convince physicians and other healthcare providers to switch from using the competing IV iron products to Feraheme, our ability to generate revenues from royalties we expect to receive from Takeda will be limited and our operating results will be negatively affected. In addition, all other IV iron products currently approved and marketed and sold in the EU are approved for marketing to all patients with IDA. Upon approval of our MAA, we expect Feraheme to be approved only for use in CKD patients, which could put Feraheme at a competitive disadvantage unless and until it receives approval for a broader indication. In addition to the currently marketed products described above, Feraheme may also compete in the U.S. with Injectafer®, which is known as Ferinject® in Europe, which is in development in the U.S. for a variety of anemia-related indications, including the treatment of IDA in CKD patients, whether or not on dialysis. In October 2011, Luitpold submitted an NDA to the FDA seeking marketing approval for Injectafer® for the treatment of IDA. The FDA has since notified Luitpold that it has assigned a 30 Table of Contents Prescription Drug User Fee Act target action date of August 3, 2012. The Injectafer® NDA includes data and information from two new large randomized controlled clinical trials investigating the cardiovascular risk profile of high dose Injectafer®. If approved in the U.S., Injectafer® will be marketed by American Regent, the current distributor of Venofer®. If Injectafer® or any other iron replacement therapy product is approved for marketing and sale in the U.S. or is successful in obtaining a broader iron deficiency anemia indication than Feraheme, our efforts to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. and our ability to generate additional revenues and achieve profitability could be adversely affected. The market opportunity for Feraheme in the U.S. and abroad could also be negatively affected by approved generic IV iron replacement therapy products that achieve commercial success. For example, in 2011, Watson launched Nulecit™, a generic version of Ferrlecit® in the U.S. Nulecit™ is approved for marketing in the U.S. for the treatment of IDA in adult patients and in pediatric patients age six years and older undergoing chronic hemodialysis who are receiving supplemental epoetin therapy. There are also a number of approved generic IV iron products in countries outside the U.S. which will directly compete with Feraheme, including a generic version of Venofer®. Companies that manufacture generic products typically invest far less resources in research and development than the manufacturers of branded products and can therefore price their products significantly lower than those already on the market. Therefore, competition from generic IV iron products could limit our U.S. sales and any royalties we may receive from Takeda, which would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The iron replacement therapy market is highly sensitive to several factors including, but not limited to, the actual and perceived safety and efficacy profile of the available products, the ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage and reimbursement, price competitiveness, and product characteristics such as convenience of administration and dosing regimens. Feraheme may not receive the same level of market acceptance as competing iron replacement therapy products, especially since most of these products have been on the market longer and are currently widely used by physicians in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, certain of the IV iron products that we compete with are approved for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia in a broader group of patients than Feraheme. We or Takeda may not be able to convince physicians and other healthcare providers or payers to switch from using the other IV iron therapeutic products to Feraheme. If we or Takeda are not able to differentiate Feraheme from other marketed IV iron products, our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability, and our long-term business prospects could be adversely affected. The outcome of our publicly announced process of evaluating strategic alternatives to maximize stockholder value is uncertain, may not result in a transaction or may result in the disruption of our business, a decrease in our profitability, dilution to our stockholders' investment or the incurrence by us of debt or significant additional expense, any of which could have a material adverse affect on the future prospects of our business and on our stock price. In late 2011, we hired Jefferies & Company, Inc., or Jefferies, as our financial advisor to assist us in identifying and evaluating various strategies to maximize stockholder value and leverage our core assets, including the potential sale of our company and the acquisition or in-license of additional companies or assets. While we intend to complete our evaluation expeditiously, there is no guarantee that the process will result in a sale of the company or other transaction or outcome that creates stockholder value. In addition, our announcement that we are evaluating various strategic alternatives may make it more difficult to recruit, retain and motivate our employees, may cause a disruption in our relationship with our vendors or customers or may deter potential vendors or customers from entering into any business transaction with us until we have announced a final outcome. As part of our strategic review, we are evaluating certain options including the sale of our company, collaboration and in-licensing opportunities, acquisitions of products or businesses, and/or 31 Table of Contents strategic alliances that we believe would be complementary to our existing business. We have limited experience with respect to these business development activities. Any such strategic transactions by us could result in large and immediate write-offs, or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or significant additional expenses, including but not limited to the payment of $12.0 million we may be required to pay as a result of the termination of our merger agreement with Allos Therapeutics, Inc., or Allos, if we enter into a definitive agreement for an Acquisition Transaction, as defined in the merger agreement with Allos, on or before October 21, 2012 or such a transaction is consummated on or before such date, any of which would adversely impact our operating results. Management of a license arrangement, collaboration, or other strategic arrangement and/or integration of an acquired asset or company or a sale of our company may also disrupt our ongoing business, create uncertainty among our employees and investors, and require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business and the global commercialization of Feraheme. We may not identify or complete any such transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated financial benefits of any such transaction. In addition, to finance any such strategic transactions, we may choose to issue shares of our common or preferred stock as consideration, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings, and such additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, acquisition or sale agreements may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for these arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. We have limited experience independently commercializing a pharmaceutical product, and any failure on our part to effectively execute our Feraheme commercial plans in the U.S., particularly in light of our recent restructuring, would have an adverse impact on our business. Prior to our commercialization of Feraheme in the U.S., we had never independently marketed or sold a drug product as we had relied on our licensees to market and sell our previously approved products. We have an internal commercial infrastructure to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S., and if we are unsuccessful in maintaining an effective commercial function or experience a high level of turnover, then the commercialization of Feraheme could be severely impaired. We reduced our workforce by approximately 25% of our positions in November 2011 as part of an overall corporate restructuring, including certain positions within our commercial function. In November 2011, we also announced the departure of our chief executive officer and our chief commercial officer. This workforce reduction, together with the departure of our chief executive officer and our chief commercial officer, or any future reductions or departures, could harm our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which could prevent us from successfully commercializing Feraheme in the U.S., impair our ability to maintain sales levels and/or impair our ability to support potential sales growth and sales of Feraheme for any additional indications we may commercialize in the future. Any failure by us to successfully execute our commercialization plans for Feraheme in the U.S. could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects for our business. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, including the hiring of a permanent chief executive officer. Because of the specialized nature of our business, our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified executive, sales, manufacturing, managerial, scientific, and medical personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with our current senior executives but such agreements do not guarantee that these executives will remain employed by us for any significant period of time, or at all. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. 32 Table of Contents In November 2011, we initiated a corporate restructuring, including a workforce reduction plan, which included an approximate 25% reduction in positions and the departure of our chief executive officer and our chief commercial officer. We are currently seeking a permanent chief executive officer, however, we may not be able to find qualified candidates in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, in November 2011, we announced that we hired Jefferies to help us conduct a strategic review to determine the optimal strategy for our growth. The uncertainty regarding the outcome of our strategic review, our November 2011 workforce reduction, recent executive departures, and any future reductions or departures, could harm our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel. If we are unable to attract such personnel, or we lose the services of our key personnel for any reason, our Feraheme development and commercialization efforts could be adversely impacted. Our failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could impose significant limits on our business operations and hinder our ability to successfully and efficiently commercialize Feraheme and complete our development projects. We are substantially dependent upon our collaboration with Takeda to commercialize Feraheme in certain regions outside of the U.S., including Canada and the EU, and if Takeda fails to successfully fulfill its obligations, or is ineffective in its commercialization of Feraheme in the licensed territories, or if our collaboration is terminated, our plans to commercialize Feraheme outside of the U.S. may be adversely affected. In March 2010, we entered into the Takeda Agreement with Takeda, under which we granted exclusive rights to Takeda to develop and commercialize Feraheme as a therapeutic agent in Europe, Asia-Pacific countries (excluding Japan, China and Taiwan), the Commonwealth of Independent States, Canada, India and Turkey, or collectively, the Licensed Territory. We are highly dependent on Takeda for certain regulatory filings outside of the U.S. with respect to Feraheme and the commercialization of Feraheme outside of the U.S., including in Canada and the EU. If Takeda fails to perform its obligations under the Takeda Agreement, delays the commercial launch of Feraheme in the Licensed Territory, or is ineffective in its commercialization of Feraheme in the Licensed Territory or if we fail to effectively manage our relationship with Takeda, our ability to and the extent to which we obtain regulatory approvals for Feraheme and our Feraheme commercialization efforts outside of the U.S. would be significantly harmed, which would have an adverse affect on milestone payments and royalties we expect to receive under the Takeda Agreement. Further, if we fail to fulfill certain of our obligations under the Takeda Agreement, Takeda has the right to assume the responsibility of clinical development of Feraheme in the Licensed Territory, which would increase the cost of and delay the Feraheme development program outside of the U.S. Takeda has the unilateral right to terminate the Takeda Agreement under certain conditions, including without cause. If Takeda terminates the agreement, we would be required to either enter into alternative arrangements with third parties to commercialize Feraheme in the Licensed Territory, which we may be unable to do, or to increase our internal infrastructure, both of which would likely result in significant additional expense and delay or termination of our Feraheme clinical development programs outside of the U.S. In addition, such a termination would prevent us from receiving the milestone payments and royalties we expect to receive under the Takeda Agreement. Our recent corporate restructuring may not result in anticipated savings, could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected and could disrupt our business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a result of the November 2011 reduction in our workforce, we recorded restructuring charges of approximately $3.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits, savings and improvements in our cost structure from our restructuring efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, delays or unexpected costs. If we are unable to achieve the anticipated 33 Table of Contents benefits, savings or improvements in our cost structure in the expected time frame or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our restructuring plan may also be disruptive to our operations. For example, cost saving measures may distract management from our core business, harm our reputation, or yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond planned reductions in workforce, increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations, reduced employee productivity and a deterioration of employee morale. Our workforce reductions could also harm our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and commercial personnel who are critical to our business. Any failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could prevent us from successfully commercializing and developing Feraheme, impair our ability to maintain sales levels and/or support potential sales growth, and result in unexpected delays in our development programs and our anticipated regulatory filings, including our planned sNDA for Feraheme for a broad IDA indication. Moreover, although we believe it is necessary to reduce the cost of our operations to improve our performance, these initiatives may preclude us from making potentially significant expenditures that could improve our competitiveness over the longer term. We cannot guarantee that the cost reduction measures, or other measures we may take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings, or that any cost savings will be unaccompanied by these or other unintended consequences. We have limited experience independently distributing a pharmaceutical product and our Feraheme commercialization plans could suffer if we fail to effectively manage and maintain our supply chain and distribution network. We do not have significant experience in managing and maintaining a supply chain and distribution network, and we are placing substantial reliance on third-parties to perform product supply chain services for us. Such services include packaging, warehousing, inventory management, storage and distribution of Feraheme. We have contracted with Integrated Commercialization Services, Inc., or ICS, to be our exclusive third-party logistics provider to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of Feraheme in the U.S., including services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and customer service call center management. As a result, a significant amount of our U.S. inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by ICS. In addition, we have contracted with Catalent Pharma Solutions, LLC, or Catalent, to provide certain labeling and packaging services for final U.S. Feraheme drug product. If ICS or Catalent are unable to provide uninterrupted supply chain services or labeling and packaging services, respectively, we may incur substantial losses of sales to wholesalers or other purchasers of Feraheme. In addition, the packaging, storage and distribution of Feraheme in the U.S. and abroad requires significant coordination among our and Takeda's manufacturing, sales, marketing and finance organizations and multiple third parties including our third-party logistics provider, packaging and labeling provider, distributors, and wholesalers. In most cases, we do not currently have back-up suppliers or service providers to perform these tasks. If any of these third-parties experience significant difficulties in their respective processes, fail to maintain compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, fail to meet expected deadlines or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damages at their facilities, our ability to deliver Feraheme to meet U.S. or foreign commercial demand could be significantly impaired. The loss of any of our third-party providers, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternate distribution source for end-users in a timely manner, could cause the distribution of Feraheme to be delayed or interrupted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents We may not be able to operate our manufacturing facilities, or our contract manufacturers may not be able to operate their manufacturing facilities, in compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other FDA and equivalent foreign regulations, which could result in a suspension of our or our contract manufacturers' ability to manufacture Feraheme, the loss of Feraheme inventory, an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet U.S. or foreign demand, or other unanticipated compliance costs. Our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility and our third-party contract manufacturing facilities are subject to current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory agencies through periodic inspections to confirm such compliance. We and our contract manufacturers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that these manufacturing facilities meet applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to maintain ongoing compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies could result in, among other things, the issuance of warning letters, fines, the withdrawal or recall of Feraheme from the marketplace, total or partial suspension of Feraheme production, the loss of Feraheme inventory, suspension of the review of any future sNDAs or equivalent foreign filings, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution. A government-mandated recall or a voluntary recall could divert managerial and financial resources, could be difficult and costly to correct, could result in the suspension of sales of Feraheme, and could have a severe adverse impact on our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. In addition, if any U.S. or foreign regulatory agency inspects any of these manufacturing facilities and determines that they are not in compliance with cGMP regulations or we or our contract manufacturers otherwise determine that we or they are not in compliance with these regulations, we or our contract manufacturers could experience an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet U.S. or foreign demand or incur unanticipated compliance expenditures, either of which could have an adverse impact on Feraheme sales, our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. Any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the Feraheme manufacturing process, including our transition to alternative source manufacturing facilities, could increase our costs, or adversely affect our profitability and future business prospects. We manufacture Feraheme for commercial use in the U.S. and for use in human clinical trials in our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. In April 2011, the FDA also approved certain of our third-party contract manufacturers to produce Feraheme drug substance and drug product for the U.S. market. We manufacture Feraheme drug substance and drug product for use in the Canadian market at our Cambridge facility. Upon approval of our MAA by the EMA, we expect to manufacture Feraheme drug substance and drug product for use in the EU market at certain of our third-party contract manufacturers. Although we are working to establish and qualify alternative source manufacturing facilities for the production of Feraheme for Canada and the EU, we will not have such alternative source manufacturing facilities available upon initial commercial launch of Feraheme in those geographies. Our ability to manufacture Feraheme or have Feraheme manufactured in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs to meet our commercial demand and clinical development needs is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these manufacturing facilities. Any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the Feraheme manufacturing process, particularly with respect to our facilities where we will manufacture Feraheme for Canadian and European supply, where we will not immediately have an approved back-up supplier, could result in product defects or shipment delays, recall or withdrawal of products previously shipped for commercial or clinical purposes, inventory write-offs or the inability to meet commercial demand for Feraheme in a timely and cost-effective manner. 35 Table of Contents In addition, the transition of the manufacturing processes to third-party contract manufacturers and the oversight of such third-parties could take a significant amount of time and may increase the risk of certain problems, including cost overruns, process reproducibility, stability issues, the inability to deliver required quantities of product that conform to specifications in a timely manner, or the inability to manufacture Feraheme in accordance with cGMP. If we are unable to consistently manufacture Feraheme or have Feraheme manufactured on a timely basis because of these or other factors, we may not be able to meet commercial demand or our clinical development needs for Feraheme or may not be able to manufacture Feraheme in a cost-effective manner, particularly in light of the fixed price at which we are required to supply Feraheme to Takeda under the Takeda Agreement. As a result, we may lose sales, fail to generate increased revenues, our clinical development programs may be delayed and/or we may lose money on our supply of Feraheme to Takeda, any of which could have an adverse impact on our potential profitability and future business prospects. Our inability to obtain raw and other materials used in the manufacture of Feraheme could adversely impact our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme, which would have an adverse impact on our business. We currently purchase certain raw and other materials used to manufacture Feraheme from third-party suppliers and at present do not have any long-term supply contracts with these third parties. These third-party suppliers may cease to produce the raw or other materials used in Feraheme or otherwise fail to supply these materials to us or fail to supply sufficient quantities of these materials to us in a timely manner for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following: •Unexpected demand for or shortage of raw or other materials; •Labor disputes or shortages; •Manufacturing difficulties; •Regulatory requirements or action; •Adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier; or •Import or export problems. If any of our third-party suppliers cease to supply certain raw or other materials to us for any reason we could be unable to manufacture Feraheme in sufficient quantities, on a timely basis, or in a cost-effective manner until we are able to qualify an alternative source, which could adversely affect our ability to satisfy commercial demand and our clinical development needs for Feraheme. The qualification of an alternative source may require repeated testing of the new materials and generate greater expenses to us if materials that we test do not perform in an acceptable manner. In addition, we sometimes obtain raw or other materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high quality standards imposed on our raw or other materials, we may not be able to obtain these materials of the quality required to manufacture Feraheme from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain raw or other materials from an alternative source, if these raw or other materials are not available in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we would be unable to manufacture Feraheme, both for commercial sale and for use in our clinical trials, on a timely and cost-effective basis, which could cause us to lose money on our supply of Feraheme to Takeda, which we are required to supply at a pre-negotiated fixed price. Any such difficulty in obtaining raw or other materials could severely hinder our ability to manufacture Feraheme and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues and to achieve profitability. 36 Table of Contents Our ability to grow revenues from sales of Feraheme could be limited if we do not obtain approval, or if we experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval, in the U.S. to market and sell Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients. We have recently completed enrollment in certain Phase III clinical trials to support our global registrational program to assess Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients. Before obtaining regulatory approval in the U.S. for the commercial marketing and sale of Feraheme for the broad IDA indication, we must demonstrate through extensive human clinical trials that Feraheme is safe and effective for use in this broader patient population. In March 2012 we announced results from the first of our two Phase III multi-center clinical trials to assess Feraheme in patients with IDA. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires adherence to a wide range of regulatory requirements. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that the results of our clinical trials are insufficient for approval or that Feraheme is not effective or safe in indications other than CKD. Clinical and other data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. There is no guarantee that the FDA will determine that the results of our clinical trials, including the recently announced results from one of our trials in our global registrational program for Feraheme in a broad range of patients with IDA, will adequately demonstrate that Feraheme is safe and effective in such a patient population to grant approval. The FDA could also determine that our clinical trials and/or our manufacturing processes were not properly designed, were not conducted in accordance with federal laws and regulations, or were otherwise not properly managed. In addition, under the FDA's current good clinical practices regulations, or cGCP, we are responsible for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA may conduct inspections of clinical investigator sites which are involved in our clinical development programs to ensure their compliance with cGCP regulations. If the FDA determines that we, our clinical research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may disqualify certain data generated from those sites or require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing application, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain marketing approval for Feraheme in the broad IDA indication. Any such deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of our clinical development programs could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience significant delays or prevent us from obtaining marketing approval for Feraheme for the broad IDA indication. In addition, any failure by us to obtain approval for the broad IDA indication could adversely affect the commercialization of Feraheme in its current indication. If, for any of these reasons, we do not obtain approval, or if we experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients, our cash position, our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to grow revenues from sales of Feraheme could be limited if we do not obtain approval, or if we experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval, to market and sell Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S. In order for Takeda, 3SBio Inc., or 3SBio, or us to market and sell Feraheme for any indication in any country outside of the U.S., including in the EU, it will be necessary to obtain regulatory approval from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities, which approval must include approval of our proposed manufacturing processes and facilities. The requirements and timing for regulatory approval vary widely from country to country and may in some cases be different than or more rigorous than requirements in the U.S. For example, our MAA submitted to the EMA, for the approval of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients, is largely supported by data from the clinical trials we 37 Table of Contents conducted to support our U.S. NDA filing for the approval of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients. The EMA may require us to perform or commit to perform additional studies or provide additional data in order to obtain regulatory approval, or as a condition for approval, for the CKD indication in the EU. In addition, in March 2012 we announced results from the first of our two Phase III multi-center clinical trials to assess Feraheme in patients with IDA. The EMA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that the results of our clinical trials are insufficient for approval in either the CKD or the broader IDA indication. Clinical and other data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and there is no guarantee that the EMA will determine that the results of our clinical trials will adequately demonstrate that Feraheme is safe and effective in either the CKD or broader IDA patient population to support approval. In addition, any adverse regulatory action taken by the FDA with respect to Feraheme in the U.S. may affect the regulatory requirements or decisions made by certain foreign regulatory bodies with regard to the regulatory approval of Feraheme outside of the U.S. Any failure to obtain regulatory approval outside of the U.S. for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients or in a broad range of patients would prevent us from receiving expected milestone payments and royalties from Takeda and could limit the commercial success of Feraheme and our ability to grow our revenues. We rely on third parties in the conduct of our business, including our clinical trials, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, our commercialization and development plans may be adversely affected. We rely and intend to continue to rely on third-parties, including clinical research organizations, third-party manufacturers, third-party logistics providers, packaging and labeling providers, wholesale distributors and certain other important vendors and consultants in the conduct of our business. As a result of the current volatile and unpredictable global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by our third-party contractors or suppliers. For example, as a result of the current economic climate, our distributors, customers or suppliers may experience difficulty in obtaining the liquidity necessary to purchase inventory or raw or other materials, may begin to maintain lower inventory levels or may become insolvent. If such third-parties are unable to adequately satisfy their contractual commitments to us in a timely manner, our business could be severely adversely affected. In addition, we have contracted and we plan to continue to contract with certain third-parties to provide certain services, including site selection, enrollment, monitoring, data management and other services, in connection with the conduct of our clinical trials and the preparation and filing of our regulatory applications, including our planned sNDA for the broad IDA indication in the U.S. We have limited experience conducting clinical trials outside the U.S., and, therefore, we are also largely relying on third-parties such as clinical research organizations to manage, monitor and carry out these clinical trials outside of the U.S. Although we depend heavily on these parties, we do not control them and, therefore, we cannot be assured that these third-parties will adequately perform all of their contractual obligations to us. If our third-party service providers cannot adequately fulfill their obligations to us in a timely manner and on a satisfactory basis or if the quality and accuracy of our clinical trial data or our regulatory submissions are compromised due to poor quality or failure to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements or if such third-parties otherwise fail to adequately discharge their responsibilities or meet deadlines, our development plans and planned regulatory submissions both in and outside of the U.S., including our planned sNDA for the broad IDA indication in the U.S., may be delayed or terminated, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from Feraheme sales in additional indications and/or outside of the U.S. 38 Table of Contents Our operating results will likely fluctuate so you should not rely on the results of any single quarter to predict how we will perform over time. Our future operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, some of which we cannot control, including but not limited to: •The magnitude of Feraheme sales; •Any expansion or contraction of the overall size of the IV iron market, which could result from a number of factors including but not limited to, changes in treatment guidelines or practices related to IDA; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with the commercialization of Feraheme in the U.S., including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure and executing our promotional and marketing strategy; •Changes in buying patterns and inventory levels of our wholesalers or distributors; •The timing and magnitude of milestone payments and royalties we may receive under the Takeda Agreement; •Any adverse impact on our financial results stemming from our recent corporate restructuring; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with our ongoing and planned clinical studies of Feraheme in connection with our pediatric program, our pursuit of additional indications and our development of Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with commercial-scale manufacturing of Feraheme, including costs of raw and other materials and costs associated with maintaining commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and alternative suppliers; •The magnitude of costs incurred in connection with business development activities, including legal and other costs associated with our previously announced process to evaluate strategic alternatives; •Changes in laws and regulations affecting Feraheme from federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory authorities, government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; •The initiation or outcome of any material litigation to which we are or become a party and the magnitude of costs associated with such litigation; and •The implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or policies. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. We derive a substantial amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers or a decline in revenue from one or more of these customers could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In the U.S., we sell Feraheme primarily to wholesalers and specialty distributors and therefore a significant portion of our revenues is generated by a small number of customers. Four customers accounted for 88% of our product sales revenue during 2011 and three customers accounted for 92% of our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2011. In addition, a significant portion of our U.S. Feraheme sales are generated through a small number of contracts with GPOs. For example, approximately 35% of our end-user demand in 2011 was generated by members of a single GPO with which we have contracted. The loss of, material reduction in sales volume to, or a significant adverse change in our relationship with any of our key wholesalers, distributors or GPOs could have a material 39 Table of Contents adverse effect on our revenue in any given period and may result in significant annual or quarterly revenue fluctuations. Wholesaler and distributor buying patterns and other factors may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and these fluctuations may adversely affect our short-term results. Our results of operations, including, in particular, product sales revenues, may vary from period to period due to a variety of factors, including the buying patterns of our U.S. wholesalers and distributors, which vary from quarter to quarter. In the event wholesalers and distributors with whom we do business in the U.S. determine to limit their purchases of Feraheme, sales of Feraheme could be adversely affected. For example, in advance of an anticipated price increase or a reduction in expected rebates or discounts, customers may order Feraheme in larger than normal quantities which could cause sales of Feraheme to be lower in subsequent quarters than they would have been otherwise. Further, any changes in purchasing patterns, inventory levels, increases in returns of Feraheme, delays in purchasing products or delays in payment for products by one of our distributors could also have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates our critical and other significant estimates and judgments, including among others, those associated with revenue recognition related to collaboration agreements and product sales, product sales allowances and accruals, our assessment of investments for potential other-than-temporary impairment and our determination of the value of our investments, reserves for doubtful accounts, accrued expenses, reserves for legal matters, income taxes and equity-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on market data, our observance of trends in our industry, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. If actual results differ from these estimates, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results and the performance of our stock. As part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks, fees and other discounts require subjective and complex judgments due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For example, during 2011 we revised our estimated Medicaid utilization based on actual rebate claims received since the launch of Feraheme in 2009, our expectations of projected state level claims activity, and estimated rebate claims not yet submitted, which resulted in a $2.5 million reduction of our estimated Medicaid rebate reserve related to Feraheme sales in 2009 and 2010. In addition, to determine the required quantities of our products and the related manufacturing schedule, we also need to make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends, anticipated sales, forecasts from our licensees, including Takeda, and other factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our and Takeda's estimates and the actual amount of product need. For example, the level of our access to wholesaler and distributor inventory levels and sales data in the U.S., which varies based on the wholesaler or distributor, affects our ability to accurately estimate certain reserves included in our financial statements. Any difference between our estimates and the actual amount of product demand could result in unmet demand or excess inventory, each of which would adversely impact our financial results and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has ranged between $12.65 and $19.62 in the fifty-two week period through February 16, 2012. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Various factors and events, many of which are beyond our control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Factors which may affect the market price of our common stock include, among others: •Our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in the U.S. and Takeda's ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in territories outside of the U.S.; •The timing and magnitude of Feraheme revenue and actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •Changes in or our failure to meet financial estimates published by securities analysts or our own publicly disclosed financial guidance; •Any announcements or speculation regarding the status or result of our previously announced process of evaluating strategic alternatives available to us; •Any announcement regarding the results of our ongoing clinical trials of Feraheme in the broad IDA indication, including our March 2012 announcement of the results of the first of our two Phase III multi-center clinical trials to assess Feraheme in patients with IDA regardless of the underlying cause; •Any announcements regarding decisions on our MAA for Feraheme in the EU and the impact on any expected milestone and royalty payments; •The availability of reimbursement coverage for Feraheme or changes in the reimbursement policies of U.S. or foreign governmental or private payors; •Public announcements of U.S. or foreign regulatory actions with respect to Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •Actual or perceived safety concerns related to Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors, including any actions taken by U.S. or foreign regulatory authorities in connection with such concerns; •The status or results of clinical trials for Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •The acquisition or development of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; •Developments in patents or other proprietary rights by us or our competitors; •The initiation or outcome of any material litigation to which we are a party; •Significant collaboration, acquisition, joint venture or similar agreements by us or our competitors; •Shareholder activism and attempts to disrupt our strategy by activist investors; •Any announcement by us naming a permanent chief executive officer; •General market conditions; and •Sales of large blocks of our common stock. Thus, as a result of events both within and beyond our control, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or lose value rapidly. 41 Table of Contents If securities analysts downgrade our stock, cease coverage of us, or if our operating results do not meet analysts' forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us and our business. Currently, nine financial analysts publish reports about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. In addition, our future operating results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and our stock price could decline significantly if we fail to meet or exceed analysts' forecasts and expectations. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or issue commentary or observations that are perceived by the market to be adverse to us or our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If any of these analysts engage in speculation about the outcome of our publicly announced strategic review process, our stock price could become volatile and decline significantly if the outcome of the process does not align with their expectations. In addition, if these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could also cause our stock price to decline. If our operating results do not meet our own publicly disclosed financial guidance our stock price could decline. In January 2012, we publicly provided 2012 financial guidance, including expected 2012 Feraheme product revenue growth, estimated operating expenses and estimated year-end cash balance. If we fail to realize any element of our publicly disclosed financial guidance or other expectations about our business, our stock price could decline in value. We may need additional capital to achieve our business objectives. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to successfully commercialize and develop Feraheme. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •Our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in the U.S. and Takeda's ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in its licensed territories outside of the U.S.; •The magnitude of U.S. Feraheme sales and royalties we may receive under the Takeda Agreement on Feraheme sales outside of the U.S.; •Our ability to obtain U.S. regulatory approval for Feraheme to treat IDA regardless of the underlying cause and our ability to obtain regulatory approval for Feraheme outside the U.S., particularly in the EU; •Our ability to achieve the various milestones and receive the associated payments under the Takeda Agreement; •Costs associated with the U.S. commercialization of Feraheme, including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure, executing our promotional and marketing strategy for Feraheme, and conducting our required pediatric clinical studies and any post-marketing clinical studies; •Costs associated with our development of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients in the U.S.; •Costs associated with our pursuit of marketing approval for Feraheme outside of the U.S.; •Costs associated with any acquisition or in-license transactions that we may engage in; 42 Table of Contents •The outcome of and costs associated with any material litigation to which we are or may become a party; •Our ability to liquidate our investments in auction rate securities, or ARS, in a timely manner and without significant loss; •Our ability to maintain successful collaborations with our licensees and/or to enter into additional alternative strategic relationships, if necessary; and •Our ability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us, if necessary. We estimate that our cash resources as of December 31, 2011, combined with cash we currently expect to receive from sales of Feraheme, from earnings on our investments, and potential milestone and royalty payments we expect to receive from Takeda will be sufficient to finance our currently planned operations for at least the next twelve months. Thereafter, we may require additional funds or need to establish additional alternative strategic arrangements to execute our business plans. We may seek needed funding through additional arrangements with collaborators through public or private equity or debt financings. We may not be able to obtain financing or to secure alternative strategic arrangements on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. Any additional equity financings or alternative strategic arrangements would be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, the terms of any debt financing could greatly restrict our ability to raise additional capital and may provide rights and preferences to the investors in any such financing which are not available to current stockholders. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us when needed could force us to dramatically reduce our expenses and delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our activities and operations, including our commercialization and development activities, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future business prospects. The investment of our cash is subject to risks, which may cause losses or adversely affect the liquidity of these investments and our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, we had $63.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, $148.7 million in short-term investments, and $17.5 million in long-term investments. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been and may continue to be exacerbated by the U.S. and global financial crisis which has been occurring over the past several years. The ongoing disruptions in the credit and financial markets have negatively affected many industries, including those in which we invest, and we may realize losses in the fair value of certain of our investments or a complete loss of these investments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, we held a total of $17.5 million in fair market value of ARS reflecting a reduction in value of approximately $2.4 million from the par value of these securities of approximately $19.9 million. In February 2008, our ARS began to experience failed auctions and have continued to experience failed auctions. Since that time, the continued uncertainty in the credit markets has caused almost all additional auctions with respect to our ARS to fail and prevented us from liquidating certain of our holdings of ARS because the amount of these securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for these securities. These auctions may continue to fail indefinitely, and there could be a further decline in value of these securities or any other securities, which may ultimately be deemed to be other-than-temporary. In the future, should we determine that these declines in value of ARS are other-than-temporary, we will recognize the credit-related portion of the loss to our consolidated statement of operations, which could be material. In addition, failed auctions will adversely impact the liquidity of our investments. 43 Table of Contents The condition of the credit markets remains dynamic and unpredictable. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity with respect to our investments. In addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. Further, as part of our determination of the fair value of our investments, we consider credit ratings provided by independent investment rating agencies as of the valuation date. These ratings are subject to change. As the ratings of our ARS change we may be required to adjust our future valuation of our ARS which may adversely affect the value of these investments. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash position, liquidity and overall financial condition. We are subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements that could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of U.S. federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. For example, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act, some of which the SEC has recently implemented by adopting additional rules and regulations in areas such as executive compensation, or "say on pay". Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in our expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of future transactions involving our common stock. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally three years. An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such "ownership change." Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we have estimated would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such net operating losses and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such net operating losses and tax credits and potentially adversely affecting our financial position. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under U.S. governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could pay penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a condition of reimbursement by various U.S. federal and state healthcare programs for Feraheme, we are required to calculate and report certain pricing information to U.S. federal and state healthcare agencies. For example, we are required to provide average selling price information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on a quarterly basis in order to compute Medicare payment rates. Price reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and vary among products 44 Table of Contents and programs. Our processes for estimating amounts due under these governmental pricing programs involve subjective decisions, and as a result, our price reporting calculations remain subject to the risk of errors and our methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under the Federal False Claims Act or other laws. In addition, the Health Care Reform Act modified the rules related to certain price reports and expanded the scope of pharmaceutical product sales to which Medicaid rebates apply, among other things. Presently, uncertainty exists as many of the specific determinations necessary to implement this new legislation have yet to be decided and communicated to industry participants. This uncertainty in the interpretation of the legislation increases the chances of an error in price reporting, which could in turn lead to a legal challenge or investigation. If we become subject to investigations or other inquiries concerning our compliance with price reporting laws and regulations, we could be required to pay or be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to ongoing U.S. and foreign regulatory obligations and oversight of Feraheme, and any failure by us to maintain compliance with applicable regulations may result in several adverse consequences including the suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of Feraheme, the incurrence of significant additional expense and other limitations on our ability to commercialize Feraheme. We are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and review both in the U.S. and in certain cases, foreign jurisdictions, pertaining to Feraheme's manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, marketing, promotion and record keeping. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements or the later discovery of previously unknown problems with Feraheme or our manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on our ability to manufacture, market or sell Feraheme, including its withdrawal from the market. Any such restrictions could result in a decrease in Feraheme sales, damage to our reputation or the initiation of lawsuits against us. We may also be subject to additional sanctions, including but not limited to: •Warning letters; •Civil or criminal penalties; •Suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •Temporary or permanent closing of our manufacturing facilities or those of our third party contract manufacturers; •Requirements to communicate with physicians and other customers about concerns related to actual or potential safety, efficacy, or other issues involving Feraheme; •Changes to the Feraheme package insert; •Implementation of risk mitigation programs; •Restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing or sale of Feraheme; or •Recalls or a refusal by regulators to consider or approve applications for additional indications. Any of the above sanctions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and cause us to incur significant additional expenses. If we or Takeda market or distribute Feraheme in a manner that violates federal, state or foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws, marketing disclosure laws or other federal, state or foreign laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements in the U.S. and abroad, we are subject to extensive additional federal, state and foreign healthcare regulation, which includes but is not limited to, the Federal False Claims Act, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 45 Table of Contents and similar laws in countries outside of the U.S. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, false or fraudulent claims for reimbursed drugs or services, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug, that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries throughout the world in which we intend to commercialize Feraheme through Takeda and our other licensees. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry, but we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations. If we, our representatives, or our licensees, including Takeda, fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us and/or Takeda, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we and/or Takeda market and sell Feraheme, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation, or other sanctions. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, several U.S. states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs or codes of conduct and/or to file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered by additional states, Congress and foreign governments. In addition, as part of the Health Care Reform Act, the federal government has enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine Act and related regulations. Beginning in 2013, manufacturers of drugs will be required to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Compliance with these laws is difficult, time consuming and costly, and if we are found to not be in full compliance with these laws, we may face enforcement actions, fines and other penalties, and we could receive adverse publicity which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with any federal, state or foreign laws or regulations governing our industry, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize Feraheme, harm or prevent sales of Feraheme, or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing Feraheme, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. In 2011, MSMB Capital Management LLC, or MSMB Capital, filed a preliminary consent solicitation statement with the SEC seeking to remove and replace all of our current directors with MSMB Capital's nominees. The review, consideration and response to MSMB Capital's efforts to gain control of our Board of Directors, or Board, require the expenditure of significant time and resources by us and may be a significant distraction for our management and employees. MSMB Capital's efforts to replace our current Board members may also create uncertainty for our employees, and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain and attract key employees, including a permanent chief executive officer. The impact of MSMB Capital's efforts due to these or other factors 46 Table of Contents may undermine our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. MSMB Capital has not yet formally commenced its proposed consent solicitation. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully defend against the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest for the following reasons: •Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders may be costly and time-consuming and may disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees; •Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in our inability to consummate potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, including a permanent chief executive officer; and •If individuals are elected to our Board with a specific agenda different from ours, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders. Our success depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets in the conduct of our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications. The breadth of the claims obtained in our patents may not provide significant protection for our technology. The degree of protection afforded by patents for licensed technologies or for future discoveries may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. The patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. Our Feraheme patents are currently scheduled to expire in 2020. These and any other patents issued to us may be contested or invalidated. For example, in July 2010, Sandoz GmbH, or Sandoz, filed an opposition to one of our patents which covers Feraheme in the EU with the European Patent Office, or EPO. Although we believe that the subject patent is valid, there is a possibility that the EPO could invalidate or require us to narrow the claims contained in our patent. We believe the Sandoz patent opposition is without merit and intend to defend against the opposition vigorously, however, this or future patent interference proceedings involving our patents may result in substantial costs to us, distract our management, prevent us or Takeda from marketing and selling Feraheme, increase the risk that a generic version of Feraheme could enter the market to compete with Feraheme, limit our development and commercialization of Feraheme or otherwise harm our competitive position and our ability to commercialize Feraheme. In addition, claims of infringement or violation of the proprietary rights of others may be asserted against us. If we are required to defend against such claims or to protect our own proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial costs to us and the distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could prevent us from marketing and selling Feraheme, increase the risk that a generic version of Feraheme could enter the market to compete with Feraheme, limit our development and commercialization of Feraheme, or otherwise harm our competitive position and result in additional significant costs. In addition, any successful claim of infringement asserted against us could subject us to monetary damages or injunction, which could prevent us or Takeda from making or selling Feraheme. We also may be required to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 47 Table of Contents The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. In countries where we do not have or have not applied for patents for Feraheme, such as in China, where we license certain development and commercial rights to Feraheme to 3SBio, we may be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where we have patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our proprietary technology. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate licensees, collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements, however, may be breached. We may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches, and our trade secrets might otherwise become known or might be independently discovered by our competitors, particularly in China, where we license certain development and commercial rights to Feraheme to 3SBio. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that an equivalent product will not be marketed in competition with Feraheme, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. If we identify a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, the NASDAQ Global Select Market or other regulatory authorities. An adverse determination in any current or future lawsuits in which we are a defendant, including the class action lawsuit to which we are currently a party, could have a material adverse affect on us. A purported class action complaint was originally filed on March 18, 2010 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, entitled Silverstrand Investments et. al. v. AMAG Pharm., Inc., et. al., Civil Action No. 1:10-CV-10470-NMG, and was amended on September 15, 2010 and on December 17, 2010. The second amended complaint, or SAC, filed on December 17, 2010 alleged that we and our former President and Chief Executive Officer, former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our Board, and certain underwriters in our January 2010 offering of common stock violated certain federal securities laws by making certain alleged false and misleading 48 Table of Contents statements and omissions in a registration statement filed in January 2010. The plaintiff sought unspecified damages on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our common stock pursuant to our common stock offering on or about January 21, 2010. On August 11, 2011, the Court issued an Opinion and Order dismissing the SAC in its entirety for failure to state a claim upon which relief could be granted. On September 14, 2011, the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. Whether or not the plaintiff's appeal is successful, this type of litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect the operation of our business. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could adversely affect our operations. We may also be the target of similar litigation in the future. Any future litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. We maintain liability insurance, however, if any costs or expenses associated with this or any other litigation exceed our insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these costs and expenses directly, which could be substantial. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of Feraheme. The administration of Feraheme to humans, whether in clinical trials or after approved for commercial use, may expose us to liability claims, whether or not Feraheme is actually at fault for causing an injury. As Feraheme is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients taking numerous other medicines or by patients with additional underlying health problems, the likelihood of adverse drug reactions or unintended side effects, including death, may increase. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials and commercial use, coverage is expensive, and we may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Product liability claims, whether or not they have merit, could also decrease demand for Feraheme, subject us to product recalls or harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs, and divert management's time and attention. Our shareholder rights plan, certain provisions in our charter and by-laws, certain contractual relationships and certain Delaware law provisions could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current members of our Board. In 2009 we adopted a shareholder rights plan, the provisions of which are intended to deter a hostile takeover by making any proposed hostile acquisition of us more expensive and less desirable to a potential acquirer by enabling our stockholders (other than the potential hostile acquiror) to purchase significant amounts of additional shares of our common stock at dilutive prices. The rights issued pursuant to our shareholder rights plan become exercisable generally upon the earlier of 10 days after a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after the announcement by a person or group of an intention to acquire 20% of our outstanding common stock via tender offer or similar transaction. The shareholder rights plan could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices. In addition, certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or takeover attempt of our company by a third-party as well as substantially impede the ability of our stockholders to benefit from a change of control or effect a change in management and our Board. These provisions include: •The ability of our Board to increase or decrease the size of the Board without stockholder approval; 49 Table of Contents •Advance notice requirements for the nomination of candidates for election to our Board and for proposals to be brought before our annual meeting of stockholders; •The authority of our Board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •Non-cumulative voting for directors; and •Limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or Section 203, which prevents us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," which is defined generally as a person that acquires 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our stockholders. As a result of the termination of our merger agreement with Allos, we may be required to pay Allos a fee of $12.0 million (in addition to the $2.0 million expense reimbursement fee we paid to Allos in October 2011) if we enter into a definitive agreement for an Acquisition Transaction, as defined in the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization on or before October 21, 2012 or such a transaction is consummated on or before such date. Such potential payment could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of our company. In addition to the above factors, an acquisition of our company could be made more difficult by employment agreements we have in place with our executive officers, as well as a company-wide change of control policy which provide for severance benefits as well as the full acceleration of vesting of any outstanding options or restricted stock units in the event of a change of control and subsequent termination of employment. Further, our Second Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan generally permits our Board to provide for the acceleration of vesting of options granted under that plan in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. Because we use certain hazardous materials in the production of our products, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the import, handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating the release or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, and such owner or operator may incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly the release or spill of, these substances could adversely affect the value of, and our ability to transfer or encumber, our real property. 50 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. 