ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: The following information sets forth material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere as discussed in the introduction to Part I above. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present material risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations. 30 Table of Contents We are primarily dependent on the success of Feraheme/Rienso. We currently derive and expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of Feraheme/Rienso by us in the U.S. and by our licensees, including Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Takeda, outside of the U.S. and, therefore, our ability to become profitable is primarily dependent on our and our licensees' successful commercialization and development of Feraheme/Rienso. Accordingly, if we are unable to generate sufficient revenues from sales of Feraheme/Rienso, or from milestone payments and royalties we may receive related to Feraheme/Rienso, we may never be profitable, our financial condition will be materially adversely affected, and our business prospects will be limited. We intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to the commercialization of Feraheme/Rienso. However, we or Takeda may not be successful in our efforts to successfully commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in its current indication for patients with iron deficiency anemia, or IDA, associated with chronic kidney disease, or CKD, or to expand the approved indication of Feraheme/Rienso to include additional indications. In December 2012, we filed a supplemental New Drug Application, or sNDA, in the U.S. for Feraheme in adult patients with IDA who had failed or could not use oral iron. On January 21, 2014, we received a complete response letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, for the sNDA informing us that our sNDA could not be approved in its present form and stating that we have not provided sufficient information to permit labeling of Feraheme for safe and effective use for the proposed broader indication. The FDA indicated that its decision was based on the cumulative ferumoxytol data, including the global Phase III IDA program and global post-marketing safety reports since the launch in 2009. The FDA suggested, among other things, that we submit additional clinical trial data in the proposed broad IDA patient population with a primary composite safety endpoint of serious hypersensitivity/anaphylaxis, cardiovascular events and death, events that are included in the labels of Feraheme and other IV irons and that have been reported in the post-marketing environment for Feraheme. Additionally, the FDA proposed potentially evaluating alternative dosing and/or administration of Feraheme. Our plan for addressing the complete response letter from the FDA includes the following steps: (a) evaluate the FDA's recommendations in the complete response letter; (b) develop a proposal that we believe would be responsive to the points raised in the complete response letter and that we determine would be economically viable; (c) meet with FDA to discuss our proposal and explore the range of possible approaches to the points raised in the complete response letter; and (d) assess the FDA's feedback on our proposal and make a final determination on a possible program that would adequately address the FDA's concerns. Depending upon the outcome of such evaluations and discussions, we may decide not to pursue regulatory approval for the broader indication. Until we have further discussions with the FDA and receive its input, we cannot predict the path forward, if any, for Feraheme in the broad IDA patient population, including the related timing and cost of any clinical trials. Generating additional clinical trial data is typically costly and time-consuming. Responding to the issues raised by the FDA in the complete response letter and any other issues or requests for information that may be raised by the FDA will likely cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience further delays and may even prevent us from obtaining U.S. regulatory approval for Feraheme in the broader IDA population or narrow our currently approved indications, as discussed in more detail in the following risk factor. Any of these results would, in turn, materially adversely impact our cash position, our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business. In June 2013, Takeda filed an application for Type II Variation of the marketing authorization for Rienso in the EU, which is the European Union, or EU, equivalent of a U.S. sNDA, with the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, seeking marketing authorization for an additional therapeutic indication for Rienso for the treatment of IDA in adult patients. In addition, in October 2013, Takeda filed a supplemental New Drug Submission, or sNDS, with Health Canada seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients. However, we have little control over Takeda's interactions with the EU or Canadian regulatory agencies and we cannot be assured when or 31 Table of Contents if the EMA will issue a positive opinion for the application for variation of the marketing authorization for Rienso in the EU. Neither can we be assured when or if the European Commission will adopt a decision approving this variation or Health Canada will approve the filing. Any failure by Takeda to gain marketing approval for Feraheme/Rienso for the treatment of IDA regardless of the underlying cause in a timely manner, or at all, could adversely affect our revenues and cash milestones from Takeda, which in turn would adversely affect results of operations or the future prospects of our business. We are not currently conducting or sponsoring research to expand our product development pipeline beyond Feraheme/Rienso. However, we expect to continue with our efforts to complete additional business development transactions, such as in-licensing, acquisitions or collaborations that would be complementary to our business. For example, in June 2013, we entered into a license agreement with Access Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Access, pursuant to which we acquired the U.S. commercial rights to market and sell MuGard® Mucoadhesive Oral Wound Rinse for the management of oral mucositis, or the MuGard Rights. Even if we continue to expand our product portfolio, our revenues and operations may not be as diversified as some of our competitors who may have numerous products or product candidates. Our ability to grow revenues from U.S. sales of Feraheme is limited to the IDA-CKD market given that we have not received regulatory approval to market and sell Feraheme to the broader IDA patient population and may be further limited if we are required to provide additional warnings and/or restrictions related to Feraheme's current or future indications. As discussed above, in December 2012, we submitted an sNDA to the FDA for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients and we received a complete response letter from the FDA on January 21, 2014 informing us that our sNDA could not be approved in its present form. In the letter, the FDA stated that we have not provided sufficient information to permit labeling of Feraheme for safe and effective use for the proposed indication. This decision by the FDA represents a significant set-back in our efforts to obtain U.S. approval for Feraheme for a broader indication as the issues raised and information requested by the FDA may be costly and time-consuming to address. Further, there is no guarantee that any efforts that we decide to undertake will meet the FDA's requirements, and we may not receive approval at all for Feraheme in a broader indication. Evaluation of the content and recommendations of the FDA's complete response letter and further discussions with the FDA may cause us to decide not to pursue regulatory approval for the broader indication. If we continue to pursue approval in the U.S. for the commercial marketing and sale of Feraheme for the broad IDA indication, we will have to demonstrate, through the submission of clinical study reports and data sets from one or more prospective, multicenter, randomized controlled trials, or the proposed clinical trials, that the benefit of Feraheme use in the proposed population would warrant the risks associated with Feraheme, including the potential for adverse events, including anaphylaxis, cardiovascular events, and death. The FDA advised that such trials should address mechanisms to reduce the risk for serious, including fatal, hypersensitivity reactions. Conducting these and other clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires adherence to a wide range of regulatory requirements. Depending on the incidence rate of the safety end-point being studied, these studies could require a significant number of patients such that the study cannot be enrolled in a reasonable time or at a reasonable cost to support commercialization. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that the results of any such additional trials and the information we submit seeking approval in the broader patient population or was otherwise reviewed, including post-marketing safety data, including reports of serious anaphylaxis, cardiovascular events, and death, or any information we provide in response to FDA requests, are insufficient for approval or that Feraheme is not effective or safe for the proposed broader indication. For example, in our Phase III clinical trial in the broader patient population, Feraheme-treated patients experienced a 0.6% rate of related serious adverse events, or SAEs, as compared to a 0.2% rate of 32 Table of Contents related SAEs from our current Feraheme label for the treatment of IDA in adult patients with CKD. The FDA indicated that its decision outlined in the complete response letter was based on the cumulative ferumoxytol data, including the global Phase III IDA program and global post-marketing safety reports. In addition, clinical and other data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. The clinical trials for the broader patient population included patients with various underlying conditions, or subpopulations, in addition to having IDA, and any additional clinical trials will likely have a similar mix of patients. There is no guarantee that the FDA will determine that the results of our clinical trials of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in adult patients who have failed or could not tolerate oral iron (including any proposed clinical trials) will adequately support approval of Feraheme in this broader patient population, or any of the individual subpopulations of IDA patients, to grant approval. The FDA could also determine that our clinical trials (including any proposed clinical trials) and/or our manufacturing processes were not properly designed, did not include enough patients or appropriate administration, were not conducted in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, or were otherwise not properly managed. In addition, under the FDA's current good clinical practices regulations, or cGCP, we are responsible for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA may conduct inspections of clinical investigator sites which are involved in our clinical development programs to ensure their compliance with cGCP regulations. If the FDA determines that we, our clinical research organizations, or CROs, or our study sites fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials (including the proposed clinical trials) may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may disqualify certain data generated from those sites or require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing application, which could further adversely impact our ability to obtain marketing approval in the U.S. for Feraheme in the broad IDA indication. Any such deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of our clinical development programs could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience further delays or prevent us from obtaining marketing approval for Feraheme for the broad IDA indication. As a result of any information submitted to the FDA in our regulatory filings or in response to any information requests or issues raised by the FDA during the review of our regulatory filings, including the FDA's review of post-marketing safety data in connection with our sNDA and any reevaluation by the FDA of existing data, such as reports of serious anaphylaxis, cardiovascular events, and death, the FDA may request additional information. The additional information may include technical or scientific information, new studies or reanalysis of existing data or risk evaluation and mitigation strategies in the current indication, or we may be required to provide additional warnings and/or restrictions on our current or future Feraheme package inserts, notify healthcare providers of changes to the package insert, narrow our currently approved or proposed indications, alter or terminate current or future trials for Feraheme or incur significant costs related to post-marketing requirements/commitments, which could put us at a disadvantage to our competitors. Our efforts to obtain approval for the broad IDA indication could adversely affect the commercialization of Feraheme in its current indication. If, for any of these or other reasons, we do not obtain U.S. approval to market and sell Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients, if our current indication is narrowed, if we are required to include additional warnings and/or restrictions on the Feraheme/Rienso package insert, including a boxed warning in the U.S. or similar warnings outside of the U.S., or if we experience additional significant delays or setbacks in obtaining approval, or if we receive approval with significant restrictions to our current or proposed package inserts, or are required to incur significant costs as post-marketing commitments, our cash position, our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business could be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Significant safety or drug interaction problems, or the evaluation or reevaluation of existing or future data by the FDA or other regulators, could result in restrictions in the Feraheme/Rienso label, recalls, withdrawal of Feraheme/Rienso from the market, an adverse impact on Feraheme/Rienso sales, our need to alter or terminate current or future Feraheme development programs, and/or a negative impact on the approval and/or timing of our current or future sNDAs, any of which would adversely impact our future business prospects. Significant safety or drug interaction problems with respect to Feraheme/Rienso, including an increase in the severity or frequency of known problems or the discovery of previously unknown problems, or the evaluation or reevaluation of existing or future data by the FDA or other regulators, could result in a variety of adverse regulatory actions. In the U.S., under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the FDA has broad authority to force drug manufacturers to take any number of actions if safety or drug interaction problems arise, including, but not limited to the following: •Requiring manufacturers to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess known risks or signals of serious risks, or to identify unexpected serious risks; •Mandating labeling changes to a product based on new safety information; or •Requiring manufacturers to implement a Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategy where necessary to assure safe use of the drug. Similar laws and regulations exist in countries outside of the U.S. In addition, unknown safety or drug interaction problems could result in product recalls, restrictions on the product's permissible uses, a negative impact on our current or future sNDAs or withdrawal of the product from the U.S. and/or foreign markets. For example, in November 2010, following discussions with the FDA, we revised the Feraheme package insert, which includes essential information regarding the FDA-approved use of Feraheme, including, among other things, the approved indication, side effects, and dosage instructions, to include bolded warnings and precautions that describe events that have been reported during post-marketing review after Feraheme administration, including life-threatening hypersensitivity reactions and clinically significant hypotension. We notified healthcare providers of the changes to the Feraheme package insert. In June 2011, we made further changes to the Feraheme package insert based on additional post-marketing data. These or any future changes to the Feraheme/Rienso package insert could adversely impact our or Takeda's ability to successfully compete in the IV iron market and could have an adverse impact on potential sales of Feraheme and our future business prospects. Also, on June 27, 2013 the EMA's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, completed a review of IV iron-containing medications used to treat iron deficiency and anemia. The CHMP concluded that the benefits of these medications are greater than their risks, provided that adequate measures are taken to ensure the early detection and effective management of allergic reactions that may occur. The measures include ensuring that these products be given in an environment where patients who develop an allergic reaction can be treated immediately, ceasing to rely on a lack of allergic reaction to a test dose as an indication of tolerance of larger doses and amendments to the package leaflet. The CHMP recommendation was sent to the European Commission, which on September 13, 2013 endorsed it and adopted a final decision that is legally binding throughout the EU. Although Rienso was not included in the evaluation, Takeda is in the process of adopting the recommendations, including updates to the label in the EU to harmonize Rienso's label with those of other IV irons included in the review. The data submitted to both the FDA as part of our NDA and sNDA and to the EMA as part of the Marketing Authorization Application for Feraheme/Rienso in the CKD indication was obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. New safety or drug interaction issues may arise as Feraheme/Rienso is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients, some of whom may be taking other medicines or by patients with additional underlying health problems. As previously discussed, the FDA recently issued a complete response letter for our sNDA that sought expansion of 34 Table of Contents the indication for Feraheme; the complete response letter concluded that the sNDA could not be approved as submitted because we have not provided sufficient information to permit labeling of Feraheme for safe and effective use for the proposed indication. The FDA indicated that its decision was based on the cumulative ferumoxytol data, including the global Phase III IDA program and global post-marketing safety reports. In addition, as we conduct and complete other clinical trials for Feraheme, new safety issues may be identified which could negatively impact our ability to successfully complete these studies, the use and/or regulatory status of Feraheme/Rienso for the treatment of IDA in patients with CKD in the U.S., EU or other territories, and the prospects for approval if we continue to pursue a broader indication for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA regardless of the underlying cause. For example, even if we conduct additional clinical studies, the FDA may determine that any application for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in adult patients who have failed or could not tolerate oral iron does not establish a sufficiently acceptable safety profile for the approval of a broader Feraheme label in the U.S. As more data become available and an increased number of patients are treated with Feraheme/Rienso, new or increased safety or drug interaction issues may require us to, among other things, provide additional warnings and/or restrictions on the Feraheme/Rienso package insert, including a boxed warning in the U.S., notify healthcare providers of new safety information, narrow our approved indications, alter or terminate current or future trials for additional uses of Feraheme, or even remove Feraheme/Rienso from the market, any of which could have a significant adverse impact on potential sales of Feraheme/Rienso or require us to expend significant additional funds. For example, in May 2013, Takeda recalled a single batch of Rienso from the Swiss market after becoming aware of four post-marketing adverse event reports relating to potential anaphylaxis/hypersensitivity reactions of varying severity following the administration of Rienso. One of these cases included a report of a fatality. The marketing authorization for Rienso and other IV iron formulations include, among their special warnings and precautions for use, an indication that the products may cause hypersensitivity reactions including serious and life-threatening anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions. The recalled batch was only distributed to and sold in Switzerland and the recall was limited to the specific batch in Switzerland. We and Takeda have completed an investigation regarding the specific Swiss batch of Rienso, which we believe did not identify any issues which would have impacted the quality of the recalled batch, and we gathered all available information for the reported adverse events. Takeda has filed a report with SwissMedic, the Swiss Agency for Therapeutic Products, and we and Takeda are awaiting feedback on SwissMedic's review of the findings from the investigation. We and Takeda are currently working with the Swiss authorities and are unable to predict when or if Rienso will be reintroduced into the Swiss market. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries is intense. If we fail to compete effectively, our business and market position will suffer. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Many of our competitors are large, well-known pharmaceutical companies and may benefit from significantly greater financial, sales and marketing capabilities, greater technological or competitive advantages, and other resources. Our competitors may develop products that are more widely accepted than ours and may receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely affects our product development or business. The markets for our current products are highly sensitive to several factors including, but not limited to the following: •The actual and perceived safety and efficacy profile of the available products; •The approved indication for each of the available products; •The ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage and reimbursement rates and terms; 35 Table of Contents •Price competitiveness; and •Product characteristics such as convenience of administration and dosing regimens. The introduction by our competitors of alternatives to Feraheme/Rienso or MuGard that would be, or are perceived to be, more efficacious, safer, less expensive, easier to administer, available for a broader patient population, or provide more favorable insurance coverage or reimbursement could reduce our revenues and the value of our product development efforts. Feraheme/Rienso may not receive the same level of market acceptance as competing iron replacement therapy products, in part because most of these products have been on the market longer and are currently widely used by physicians in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, the recent CHMP review of IV iron-containing medications used to treat iron deficiency and anemia (which concluded that the benefits of these medications are greater than their risks, provided that adequate measures are taken to ensure the early detection and effective management of allergic reactions that may occur, including ensuring that these products be given in an environment where patients who develop an allergic reaction can be treated immediately and ceasing to rely on a lack of allergic reaction to a test dose as an indication of tolerance of larger doses) could cause physicians to elect non-IV iron alternatives which may be easier to administer or dose or which may be perceived as less risky. In addition, Feraheme currently competes with several IV iron replacement therapies in the U.S., certain of which are approved for the treatment of IDA in a broader group of patients than Feraheme. For example, in July 2013, Injectafer®, which is known as Ferinject® in Europe and is discussed below, was approved by the FDA for the treatment of IDA in adult patients who have an unsatisfactory response to oral iron or who have intolerance to oral iron, which is a broader indication than our current Feraheme indication. Injectafer® is approved in the U.S. with a recommended dose of two slow injections or infusion of 750 milligrams each separated by at least seven days apart for a total of 1,500 milligrams. While this dosing regimen is different from Feraheme, it does offer similar convenience benefits to Feraheme for patients and healthcare providers. Injectafer® is also priced at a significant premium to many other IV irons providing it more opportunity to offer discounts, incentives and rebates to new or existing customers to attract new business. The recent decision by the FDA that we have not provided sufficient information to permit labeling of Feraheme for safe and effective use for the proposed indication, will likely make it more difficult for us to compete with Injectafer® in certain customers in the U.S., because Injectafer® has been approved for a broader patient population than Feraheme. Even if we continue to seek and eventually obtain labeling of Feraheme in a broader population, Injectafer® will have already been available for a considerable period of time. During this period, physicians may increase their use of Injectafer® and gain familiarity with the product making it more difficult for us to cause these physicians to use Feraheme in the future. In addition, Injectafer® may enter into commercial contracts with key customers or group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, during this period, which could prevent or make it more difficult for Feraheme to retain its existing customers, gain sales to new customers and gain market share in its existing indication with customers or GPOs, if we were to continue to seek and receive approval for the broader patient population in the future. Injectafer®'s U.S. approval or the approval of any other iron replacement product for a broader IDA indication than Feraheme, could adversely affect our efforts to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. and our ability to generate additional revenues and achieve profitability. Feraheme/Rienso also competes with a number of branded IV iron replacement and certain other iron dextran and iron sucrose products outside of the U.S., such as Ferinject® (ferric carboxymaltose injection), which is an IV iron replacement therapy currently approved for marketing in approximately 47 countries worldwide for the treatment of IDA where oral iron is ineffective or cannot be used. If Takeda is unable to convince physicians and other healthcare providers to switch from using the competing IV iron products to Feraheme/Rienso, our ability to generate revenues from royalties we may receive from Takeda will be limited and our operating results will be negatively affected. In addition, all other IV iron products currently approved and marketed and sold in the EU are approved for 36 Table of Contents marketing to a broader group of patients with IDA. Feraheme/Rienso was approved only for use in adult CKD patients, which could put Feraheme/Rienso at a competitive disadvantage unless and until it receives approval for a broader indication outside of the U.S. If we or Takeda are not able to differentiate Feraheme/Rienso from other marketed IV iron products, our ability to maintain a premium price, our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability, and our long-term business prospects could be adversely affected. There are other companies in the U.S. commercializing products for the management or treatment of oral mucositis that may compete with MuGard including (a) NeutraSal® (supersaturated calcium phosphate rinse), a prescription mouth rinse marketed by Invado Pharmaceuticals, LLC; (b) Caphosol® a supersaturated calcium phosphate artificial saliva used as an adjunct to other oral care which is marketed by Jazz Pharmaceuticals, PLC; and (c) Kepivance® (palifermin) an IV human growth factor which is marketed by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB. In addition, there are several marketed products available which are indicated for the management of pain associated with oral mucositis including (a) Episil, which is marketed by Cangene BioPharma, Inc.; (b) Gelclair®, which is marketed by DARA BioSciences; and (c) GelX Oral Gel, which is marketed by Praelia Pharmaceuticals, Inc. If we are not able to differentiate MuGard from other marketed products for the management or treatment of oral mucositis, our ability to generate additional revenues could be adversely affected. We may not be able to further expand our product portfolio by entering into additional business development transactions, such as in-licensing arrangements, acquisitions, or collaborations or if such arrangements are entered into they could disrupt our business, decrease our profitability, result in dilution to our stockholders or cause us to incur debt or significant additional expense. As part of our business strategy to expand our product portfolio and achieve profitability, we are seeking to acquire or in-license other products, or acquire businesses that have a commercialized product or products, that we believe would be complementary to our existing business. For example, in June 2013, we entered into a license agreement with Access, under which we acquired the MuGard Rights. We have limited experience with respect to these business development activities and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or complete any such transaction in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated financial benefits of any such transaction, including MuGard. The valuation methods that we use for any acquired product or business requires significant judgment and assumptions. Actual results and performance of the product or business that we acquire could differ significantly from our original assumptions, especially during the periods immediately following the closing of the transaction. In addition, acquisitions may cause significant changes to our current structure, organization and operations, may subject us to more rigid or constraining regulations or government oversight and may have negative tax and accounting consequences. These results could have a negative impact on our financial position or results of operations and result in significant charges in future periods. We may not be successful in acquiring or in-licensing a product, product candidate or business that will provide us with commercial, development and/or financial synergies with Feraheme and our current organization such that we will be able to eliminate expenses either from our existing operations or from the cost structure of the acquired product. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements or acquisition agreements is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for these arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. Further, any such strategic transactions by us could result in large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, each of which may contain restrictive covenants that could adversely impact or limit our ability to grow our business, enter into new agreements, and adversely affect our operating results. Management of a license arrangement, collaboration, or other strategic arrangement and/or integration of an acquired asset or company may also disrupt our ongoing business, 37 Table of Contents require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business and our U.S. commercialization of Feraheme. In addition, to finance any such strategic transactions, we may choose to issue shares of our common or preferred stock as consideration, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings, and such additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to successfully obtain rights to suitable products or if any acquisition or in-license arrangement we make is not successful, our business, financial condition and prospects for growth could suffer. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of the MuGard Rights or any future acquisitions or product licenses and the integration of the MuGard Rights or any future acquisitions and any products or product candidates acquired or licensed may disrupt our business and management. We have and we may in the future acquire or in-license additional specialty pharmaceutical products such as we did with MuGard. The integration of the operations of acquired products or businesses, including MuGard, requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, safety and pharmacovigilance, medical and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time. In addition, we rely on Access, and may in the future have to rely on such other parties with whom we may enter into a future agreement, to perform certain regulatory filings, oversee certain functions, such as pharmacovigilance or the manufacture of the product we license from them, and any failure of Access or any other party to perform these functions for any reason, including ceasing doing business, could have a material effect on our ability to commercialize MuGard or any other future product we may acquire. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the MuGard Rights or any future acquisition, license or collaboration, any of which involves numerous risks including the following: •Difficulty in integrating the products or product candidates into our business; •Entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience, including device markets, and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; •Failure to achieve our strategic objectives, including successfully commercializing and marketing MuGard or any other products we may acquire; •Our ability to train our sales force, and the ability of our sales force, to incorporate successfully new products and devices, including MuGard, into their call points; •Additional legal and/or compliance risk associated with the acquisition of MuGard or any other future product; •The introduction by our competitors of alternatives to MuGard that would be, or are perceived to be, more efficacious, safer, less expensive, easier to administer, or provide more favorable insurance coverage or reimbursement could reduce our revenues and the value of our product development efforts; •Potential write-offs of intangible assets or adjustments to contingent consideration related to estimates we make in the accounting for acquisitions or product licenses, including MuGard, and any resulting impact that may have on our quarterly financial results; and •Disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities or our core business functions, including Feraheme/Rienso. If we cannot successfully integrate the MuGard business, or other businesses we may acquire, into our company, we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that, following any such acquisitions, including MuGard, we will achieve the expected synergies to justify the transaction. 38 Table of Contents We are completely dependent on third parties to manufacture our commercial products, including Feraheme/Rienso, and any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the Feraheme/Rienso manufacturing process, including any transition to alternative source manufacturing facilities, could increase our costs, impact our ability to meet our or Takeda's demand forecasts, or adversely affect our profitability and future business prospects. In 2012, we ceased our manufacturing operations at our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. Consequently, we do not own or operate, and currently do not plan to own or operate, facilities for the manufacture of Feraheme/Rienso or our other commercial products, including MuGard. We currently rely solely on our third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso for our commercial and clinical use and rely on Access for the manufacture of MuGard. We do not currently have an alternative manufacturer for our Feraheme/Rienso drug substance and finished drug product and we may not be able to enter into agreements with second source manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations and other regulatory requirements on a timely basis and with terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to have our products, including Feraheme/Rienso and MuGard manufactured in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs to meet our commercial demand and clinical development needs is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our third-party contract manufacturing facilities. Any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the manufacturing process could result in product defects or shipment delays, recall or withdrawal of product previously shipped for commercial or clinical purposes, inventory write-offs or the inability to meet commercial demand in a timely and cost-effective manner. Furthermore, our current third-party manufacturer for Feraheme/Rienso does not manufacture for us exclusively and may exhaust some or all of its resources meeting the demand of other customers. Any potential manufacturing delays resulting from insufficient manufacturing capacity due to scheduling conflicts at our third-party manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of Feraheme/Rienso to meet our demand forecasts or any other difficulties in our manufacturing process could result in our inability to meet our commercial demand for Feraheme/Rienso. In addition, securing additional third-party contract manufacturers for Feraheme/Rienso will require significant time for transitioning the necessary manufacturing processes, gaining regulatory approval, and for having the appropriate oversight and may increase the risk of certain problems, including cost overruns, process reproducibility, stability issues, the inability to deliver required quantities of product that conform to specifications in a timely manner, or the inability to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso in accordance with cGMP. If we are unable to have Feraheme/Rienso manufactured on a timely or sufficient basis because of these or other factors, we may not be able to meet commercial demand or our clinical development needs for Feraheme/Rienso or may not be able to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso in a cost-effective manner, particularly in light of the current fixed price at which we are required to supply Feraheme/Rienso to Takeda under our License, Development and Commercialization Agreement, as amended in June 2012, or the Amended Takeda Agreement. As a result, we may lose sales, fail to generate increased revenues, fail to launch the product in markets that cannot support a price in excess of our costs, suffer regulatory setbacks and/or we may lose money on our supply of Feraheme/Rienso to Takeda, any of which could have an adverse impact on our potential profitability and future business prospects. Contract manufacturers may not be able to operate their manufacturing facilities in compliance with cGMP, release specifications and other FDA and equivalent foreign regulations, which could result in a suspension of our contract manufacturers' ability to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso or MuGard, the loss of Feraheme/Rienso or MuGard inventory, an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme/Rienso and MuGard to meet U.S. or foreign demand, as applicable, or other unanticipated compliance costs. Our third-party contract manufacturing facilities are subject to cGMP regulations enforced by the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory regulations and agencies through periodic inspections to 39 Table of Contents confirm such compliance. Similarly, we rely on Access for the manufacture of MuGard and any third-party contract manufacturing facilities engaged by Access are subject to cGMP regulations. Contract manufacturers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that these manufacturing facilities meet applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to maintain ongoing compliance with cGMP or similar regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies could result in, among other things, the issuance of warning letters, fines, the withdrawal or recall of our products, including Feraheme/Rienso and MuGard from the marketplace, total or partial suspension of Feraheme/Rienso or MuGard production, the loss of Feraheme/Rienso inventory or the inability of Access to supply sufficient MuGard inventory, suspension of the review of our current or any future sNDAs or equivalent foreign filings, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution. A government-mandated recall or a voluntary recall could divert managerial and financial resources, could be difficult and costly to correct, could result in the suspension of sales of our products, including Feraheme/Rienso and MuGard, and could have a severe adverse impact on our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. If any U.S. or foreign regulatory agency inspects any of these manufacturing facilities and determines that they are not in compliance with cGMP or similar regulations or our or Access's contract manufacturers otherwise determine that they are not in compliance with these regulations, as applicable, such contract manufacturers could experience an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme/Rienso to meet U.S. or foreign demand and of MuGard to meet U.S. demand, or incur unanticipated compliance expenditures. We have also established certain testing and release specifications with the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies. This release testing must be performed in order to allow the finished product to be used for commercial sale. If our finished product does not meet these release specifications or if the release testing is variable, we may not be able to supply product to meet our projected demand. We monitor each batch of Feraheme/Rienso for ongoing stability after it has been released for commercial sale. If a particular batch exhibits variations in its stability or begins to generate test results that demonstrate an adverse trend against our specifications, we may need to conduct an investigation into the test results, quarantine the product to prevent further use, destroy existing inventory no longer acceptable for commercial sale, or recall the batch. In addition, variations in the regulatory approval of Feraheme/Rienso in the currently approved territories require that our third-party manufacturers follow different manufacturing processes and analytical testing methods. If we are unable to develop, validate, transfer or gain regulatory approval for the new release test, our ability to supply product to the EU will be adversely affected. Such setbacks could have an adverse impact on Feraheme/Rienso sales, our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. The success of Feraheme and MuGard in the U.S. depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks and copyrights in the conduct of our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications. The breadth of the claims obtained in our patents may not provide sufficient protection for our technology. The degree of protection afforded by patents for proprietary or licensed technologies or for future discoveries may not be adequate to preserve our ability to protect or commercially exploit those technologies or discoveries. The patents issued to us may provide us with little or no competitive advantage. In addition, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. 40 Table of Contents Our Feraheme patents currently expire in 2020, however, our primary U.S. patent for Feraheme may be subject to an extension to 2023 under U.S. patent law and FDA regulations. Our licensed patents relating to MuGard expire in 2022. These and any other patents issued to us may be contested or invalidated. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. We may become a party to patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference and reexamination proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Further, our licensed patent rights to MuGard may not prevent competitors from independently developing and marketing a competing product that does not infringe our licensed patents or other intellectual property. In addition, claims of infringement or violation of the proprietary rights of others may be asserted against us. If we are required to defend against such claims or to protect our own proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial financial and business costs, including the business cost attributable to the resulting distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could prevent us from marketing and selling Feraheme, increase the risk that a generic version of Feraheme could enter the market to compete with Feraheme, limit our development and commercialization of Feraheme, or otherwise harm our competitive position and result in additional significant costs. In addition, any successful claim of infringement asserted against us could subject us to monetary damages or an injunction, preventing us from making or selling Feraheme. We also may be required to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Frequently, the unpredictable nature and significant costs of patent litigation leads the parties to settle to remove this uncertainty. Settlement agreements between branded companies and generic applicants may allow, among other things, a generic product to enter the market prior to the expiration of any or all of the applicable patents covering the branded product, either through the introduction of an authorized generic or by providing a license to the applicant for the patents in suit. Moreover, MuGard is subject to many of the same third party infringement risks that Feraheme is subject to. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate licensees, collaborators, contract manufacturers, employees and consultants. These agreements, however, may be breached. We may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches, and our trade secrets might otherwise become known or might be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that an equivalent product will not be marketed in competition with Feraheme or MuGard, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. Our inability to protect Feraheme or MuGard through our patents and other intellectual property rights prior to their expiration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. Competitors could file applications seeking a path to U.S. approval of a generic ferumoxytol. Under Sections 505(c)(3)(E)(ii) and Section 505(j)(5)(F)(ii) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, a new chemical entity, or NCE, may be eligible for five years of marketing exclusivity in the U.S. following regulatory approval. A drug can be classified as an NCE if the FDA has not previously approved any other drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance. In 2009, the FDA determined that ferumoxytol did not qualify as an NCE and instead granted Feraheme a three-year "new use" market exclusivity, which expired in June 2012. In March 2010 and December 2012, we formally requested that the FDA reconsider its determination with respect to Feraheme's NCE status. The FDA may deny our request for reconsideration of NCE status for Feraheme, in which case Feraheme may be subjected to early 41 Table of Contents generic competition. Even if Feraheme is granted NCE status, we would only gain marketing exclusivity until June 2014. Generic ferumoxytol competitors could enter the market through approval of abbreviated new drug applications, or ANDAs, that use Feraheme as a reference listed drug, which would allow generic competitors to rely on Feraheme's safety and effectiveness trials instead of conducting their own studies. NCE exclusivity, if granted, would preclude approval during the exclusivity period of ANDAs, as well as 505(b)(2) new drug applications, or NDAs, that rely on the FDA's finding of safety and effectiveness for Feraheme. An ANDA may be submitted four years after approval of a subject drug with a five-year exclusivity period if the ANDA contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement, known as a "Paragraph IV certification," with respect to patents listed for Feraheme in the Orange Book. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge the protection of Orange Book-listed patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue. If we are not able to gain or exploit marketing exclusivity beyond the initial three-year exclusivity period that expired in June 2012, we may face significant future competitive threats to our commercialization of Feraheme from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives through the submission of ANDAs. Further, even if Feraheme is granted NCE status, another company could challenge that decision and seek to overturn the FDA's determination. In addition, in December 2012, the FDA published a draft guidance containing product-specific bioequivalence recommendations for drug products containing ferumoxytol. The FDA generally publishes product-specific bioequivalence guidance after it has received an inquiry from a generic drug manufacturer about submitting an ANDA for the product in question; thus, it is possible that a generic drug manufacturer has approached the FDA requesting guidance about submitting an ANDA for ferumoxytol, the active ingredient in Feraheme, and that such an ANDA may be filed in the near future. Because the FDA may deny our request for reconsideration of NCE status for Feraheme, and because NCE exclusivity would expire in June 2014 even if granted, the published bioequivalence guidance could encourage a generic entrant seeking a path to approval of a generic ferumoxytol to file an ANDA. As a result, we could face generic competition in the near-term or have to engage in extensive litigation with a generic competitor to protect our patent rights, either of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In July 2013, we filed a citizen petition requesting that the FDA not approve any ANDAs for a generic ferumoxytol product until FDA completes certain planned studies addressing concerns with other generic IV iron products and imposes additional bioequivalence requirements for sponsors seeking approval of generic ferumoxytol products. However, we cannot predict when or if the FDA will respond or otherwise take any action with respect to the Citizen Petition. Companies that manufacture generic products typically invest far fewer resources in research and development than the manufacturers of branded products and can therefore price their products significantly lower than those branded products already on the market. Therefore, competition from generic IV iron products could limit our U.S. sales and any royalties and milestones we may receive from Takeda, which would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are substantially dependent upon our collaboration with Takeda to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in certain regions outside of the U.S., including Canada, Switzerland and the EU, and if Takeda fails to successfully fulfill its obligations, or is ineffective or unsuccessful in the regulatory approval process or commercialization of Feraheme/Rienso in its licensed territories, or if our collaboration is terminated, our plans to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso outside of the U.S. may be adversely affected. In March 2010, we entered into our initial agreement with Takeda, which was amended in June 2012, under which we granted exclusive rights to Takeda to develop and commercialize Feraheme/Rienso as a therapeutic agent in Europe, certain Asia-Pacific countries (excluding Japan, China and Taiwan), Canada, India and Turkey, or the Licensed Territories. We are highly dependent on Takeda for certain 42 Table of Contents regulatory filings outside of the U.S. with respect to Feraheme/Rienso and the commercialization of Feraheme/Rienso outside of the U.S., including in Canada, Switzerland and the EU. Takeda is in the early stages of the launch of Feraheme/Rienso for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients in Canada and the EU, and therefore, revenues from sales of Feraheme/Rienso in these territories are not currently a material part of ours or Takeda's business. In June 2013, Takeda filed an application for Type II Variation of the marketing authorization for Rienso in the EU with the EMA seeking marketing authorization for an additional therapeutic indication for Rienso for the treatment of IDA in adult patients, and in October 2013 Takeda filed a sNDS with Health Canada seeking marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients. It is unclear whether the FDA's January 2014 complete response letter regarding our sNDA for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients will have any impact on the outcome of Takeda's efforts, but, any regulatory action taken by the FDA with respect to a product under review in the U.S. has the potential to affect the regulatory requirements or decisions made by certain foreign regulatory bodies with regard to the regulatory approval of products outside of the U.S. To receive regulatory approval outside of the U.S. for the commercial marketing and sale of Feraheme/Rienso for the broad IDA indication Takeda will have to demonstrate that Feraheme/Rienso is of good quality, safe and effective for use in the broader patient population. The ability to and the extent to which Takeda obtains regulatory approvals for Feraheme/Rienso for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients in the Licensed Territories and the level of success of Takeda's current and future commercialization efforts outside of the U.S. would be significantly harmed as the result of a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: •If the currently approved CKD indication is narrowed; •If Feraheme/Rienso is linked to serious unexpected adverse reaction in patients; •If Takeda experiences significant delays or setbacks in obtaining approval in the broad IDA patient population; •If approval is granted with significant restrictions to the current or proposed package inset; •If Takeda is required to incur significant costs as post-marketing commitments; •If Takeda is ineffective in its commercialization of Feraheme/Rienso in the agreed-upon territories; •If revenues fail to materialize due to market, competitive or pricing dynamics in Takeda's territories; and •If we fail to effectively manage our relationship with Takeda. All of the above factors would have an adverse effect on future royalties or milestone payments we may receive from Takeda, including a significant milestone payment for grant of marketing authorization in the EU for Rienso for broader therapeutic indication. Further, if we fail to fulfill certain of our obligations under the Amended Takeda Agreement, Takeda has the right to assume the responsibility of clinical development and manufacturing of Feraheme/Rienso in the agreed-upon territories, which would increase the cost of and potentially delay the Feraheme/Rienso development program outside of the U.S. Takeda has the unilateral right to terminate the Amended Takeda Agreement under certain conditions, including without cause or if it determines in good faith that the continued development of Rienso would not be in the best interest of patient welfare. If Takeda terminates the agreement and we chose to continue to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in Takeda's territories, we would be required to either enter into alternative arrangements with third parties to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in Takeda's territories, which we may be unable to do in a timely and cost effective manner, or at all, or 43 Table of Contents to increase our internal infrastructure, both of which would likely result in significant additional expense and the disruption or failure of commercial efforts outside of the U.S. In order to continue commercialization efforts, we would also have to assume the full cost of any post-marketing commitments, both currently and in the future, some of which are Takeda's responsibility under a cost-sharing arrangement. In addition, such a termination would prevent us from receiving the milestone payments and royalties we may otherwise receive under the Amended Takeda Agreement. The success of Feraheme/Rienso abroad depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the laws of foreign countries may not provide the same level of protection as do the laws of the U.S. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. and therefore, in addition to similar risks to those described above under the heading "The success of Feraheme and MuGard in the U.S. depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology," our intellectual property rights may be subject to increased risk abroad, including opposition proceedings before the patent offices for other countries, such as the European Patent Office, or the EPO, or similar adversarial proceedings, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to Feraheme/Rienso. For example, in July 2010, Sandoz GmbH, or Sandoz, filed with the EPO an opposition to one of our previously issued patents which covers ferumoxytol in the EU. In October 2012, at an oral hearing, the Opposition Division of the EPO revoked our European ferumoxytol patent. In December 2012, our notice of appeal was recorded with the EPO. The appeals process is costly and time-consuming and if it results in an unfavorable outcome to us, it could result in a loss of proprietary rights in the EU and may allow Sandoz or other companies to use our proprietary technology without a license from us, which may also result in a loss of future royalty or milestone payments to us, as well as the possibility that Takeda may determine that the terms of our agreement are no longer viable. We cannot predict the outcome of our appeal of the EPO decision. This or any future patent interference proceedings involving our patents may result in substantial costs to us, distract our management from day-to-day business operations and responsibilities, prevent us or Takeda from marketing and selling Feraheme/Rienso or increase the risk that a generic version of Feraheme/Rienso could enter the market to compete with Feraheme/Rienso. In countries where we do not have or have not applied for patents for ferumoxytol, we may be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where we have patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our proprietary technology. Any such limitation on our intellectual property rights would cause substantial harm to our competitive position and to our ability to develop and commercialize Feraheme/Rienso. Our inability to protect Feraheme/Rienso through our patents and other intellectual property rights in any territory prior to their expiration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. Wholesaler, distributor and customer buying patterns, particularly those who are members of a GPO, and other factors may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and these fluctuations may adversely affect our short-term results. Our results of operations, including, in particular, product sales, may vary from period to period due to a variety of factors, including the buying patterns of our U.S. wholesalers, distributors, clinics or hospitals, which vary from quarter to quarter. In addition, our contracts with GPOs often require certain performance from the members of the GPOs, on an individual account level or group level such as growth over prior periods or certain market share attainment goals in order to qualify for discounts off the list price of our products and a GPO may be able to influence the demand for our products from its members in a particular quarter through communications they make to their customers. In the event wholesalers, distributors, clinics or hospitals with whom we do business in the U.S. determine to limit their purchases of our products our product sales could be adversely affected. In addition, these contracts are cancellable at any time by our customers, often without notice, and are non-exclusive 44 Table of Contents agreements within the IV iron market. While these contracts are intended to support the use of Feraheme, our competitors could offer better pricing, incentives, higher rebates or exclusive relationships. Because Feraheme is not indicated for the broad IDA population, the incentives in our contracts for a particular site of care are capped based on our estimate of their patients covered by our current CKD label. Because some of our competitors' products have the broad IDA label, they may provide additional incentives for all of a customer's IV iron usage, essentially becoming an exclusive provider to that particular customer. Our contracting strategy can also have an impact on the timing of certain purchases causing Feraheme sales to vary from quarter to quarter. For example, in advance of an anticipated price increase, following the publication of our quarterly average selling price, or ASP, which affects the rate at which Feraheme is reimbursed, or a reduction in expected rebates or discounts, customers may order Feraheme in larger than normal quantities which could cause Feraheme sales to be lower in subsequent quarters than they would have been otherwise. Further, any changes in purchasing patterns or inventory levels, changes to our contracting strategy, increases in product returns, delays in purchasing products or delays in payment for products by one of our distributors or GPOs could also have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. Our products may not be widely adopted by physicians, hospitals, patients, or healthcare payors, which would adversely impact our potential profitability and future business prospects. The commercial success of our products depends upon the level of market adoption by physicians, hospitals, patients, and healthcare payors, including managed care organizations and GPOs. If our products do not achieve or maintain an adequate level of market adoption for any reason, our potential profitability and our future business prospects will be adversely impacted. Feraheme/Rienso and MuGard represent an alternative to other products in their respective markets and might not be adopted if perceived to be no safer, less safe, no more effective, less effective, no more convenient, or less convenient than currently available products. In addition, the pricing and/or reimbursement rates and terms of our products may not be viewed as advantageous to potential prescribers and payors as the pricing and/or reimbursement rates and terms of alternative products. The degree of market acceptance of Feraheme/Rienso in the U.S. and abroad depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: •Our and Takeda's ability to demonstrate to healthcare providers, particularly hematologists, oncologists, hospitals, nephrologists, and others who may purchase or prescribe Feraheme/Rienso, the clinical efficacy and safety of Feraheme/Rienso as an alternative to currently marketed IV iron products which treat IDA in CKD patients; •Our and Takeda's ability to convince physicians and other healthcare providers to use IV iron, and Feraheme/Rienso in particular, rather than oral iron, which is the current treatment of choice of most physicians for treating IDA in CKD patients; •The actual or perceived safety and efficacy profile of Feraheme/Rienso as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents, particularly if unanticipated adverse reactions to Feraheme/Rienso result in further changes to or restrictions in the Feraheme/Rienso package insert, voluntary or involuntary product recalls and/or otherwise create safety concerns among potential prescribers; •The relative price and level of reimbursement in the U.S. for Feraheme from payors, including government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private payors as compared to the price and level of reimbursement for alternative IV iron products; •The relative price and/or level of reimbursement of Feraheme/Rienso outside of the U.S. as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents; 45 Table of Contents •The actual or perceived convenience and ease of administration of Feraheme/Rienso as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents, including iron administered orally; •The limitation on the approved indications and the patient populations for Feraheme/Rienso, especially in light of FDA's decision that we have not provided sufficient information to permit labeling of Feraheme for safe and effective use for this population, and the currently approved patient population in Europe; and •The effectiveness of our and Takeda's commercial organizations and distribution networks in marketing, selling and supplying Feraheme/Rienso. The key component of our U.S. commercialization strategy is to market and sell Feraheme for use in non-dialysis adult CKD patients. The current U.S. non-dialysis CKD market is comprised primarily of three sites of care where a substantial number of CKD patients are treated: hospitals, hematology and oncology centers, and nephrology clinics. IV iron therapeutic products are not currently widely used by certain physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients in the U.S., particularly nephrologists, due to safety concerns and the inconvenience and often impracticability of administering IV iron therapeutic products in their offices. It is often difficult to change physicians' existing treatment paradigms even when supportive clinical data is available. In addition, our ability to effectively market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. hospital market depends in part upon our ability to achieve acceptance of Feraheme onto hospital formularies. Since many hospitals and hematology, oncology and nephrology practices are members of GPOs, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective bargaining power of the group, our ability to attract customers in these sites of care also depends in part on our ability to effectively promote Feraheme to and enter into pricing agreements with GPOs. The GPOs can also offer opportunities for competitors to Feraheme that provide the ability to quickly gain market share by offering a more attractive price or contracts and incentives that encourage the members of the GPO to use or switch to the competing product. If we are not successful in capturing a significant share of the U.S. non-dialysis CKD market or if we are not successful in securing and maintaining formulary coverage for Feraheme, or if we cannot maintain strong relationships and offer competitive contracts to key customers and GPOs, our potential profitability as well as our long-term business prospects could be adversely affected. We derive a substantial amount of our Feraheme revenue from a limited number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers, a change in their fee structure, or a decline in revenue from one or more of these customers could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In the U.S., we sell Feraheme primarily to wholesalers and specialty distributors and therefore a significant portion of our revenues is generated by a small number of customers. Four customers accounted for 92% of our total revenues during 2013, and three customers accounted for 91% of our accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2013. We pay these wholesalers and specialty distributors a fee for the services that they provide to us. Because our business is concentrated with such a small number of wholesalers and specialty distributors, we could be forced to accept increases in their fees in order to maintain the current distribution networks through which Feraheme is sold. Any increase in fees could have a negative impact on our current and future sales of Feraheme in the U.S. and could have a negative impact on the reimbursement rate an individual physician, hospital or clinic would realize upon using Feraheme. In addition, a significant portion of our U.S. Feraheme sales are generated through a small number of contracts with GPOs. For example, approximately 30% of our end-user demand during 2013 was generated by members of a single GPO with which we have contracted. As a result of the significant percentage of our end-user demand being generated by a single GPO, we may be at a disadvantage in future contract or price negotiations with such GPO and that GPO may be able to influence the demand for Feraheme from its members in a particular quarter through communications they make to their customers. In addition, the GPOs can also offer opportunities for competitors to Feraheme that provide the ability to quickly gain market share by 46 Table of Contents offering a more attractive price or contracts and incentives that encourage the members of the GPO to use or switch to the competing product. The loss of some or all of this demand to a competitor, a material reduction in sales volume, or a significant adverse change in our relationship with any of our key wholesalers, distributors or GPOs could have a material adverse effect on our revenue in any given period and may result in significant annual or quarterly revenue fluctuations. We depend, to a significant degree, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors for the use of our products, and a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could adversely affect our sales revenues and results of operations. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products is dependent, in significant part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement to end-users from third-party payors for the use of our products, including governmental payors, managed care organizations and private health insurers. Reimbursement by third-party payors depends on a number of factors, including the third-party's determination that the product is competitively priced, safe and effective, appropriate for the specific patient, and cost-effective. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and have instituted and continue to institute cost containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products. If these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement for our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, physicians and other healthcare providers may choose to use alternative products, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues. In addition, U.S. and many foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of health care for patients. In the U.S., the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the Health Care Reform Act, was enacted in March 2010 and includes certain cost containment measures including an increase to the minimum rebates for products covered by Medicaid programs, the extension of such rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations and the expansion of the 340B Drug Discount Program under the Public Health Service Act. In addition, the heightened focus on the health care industry by the federal government could result in the implementation of significant federal spending cuts, including cuts in Medicare and other health related spending in the near-term. For example, recent legislation has resulted in Medicare payments being subject to a two percent reduction, referred to as sequestration, until 2023. Because the majority of our Feraheme business is through hematology/oncology clinics and outpatient hospital infusions centers, this reduction in the Medicare reimbursement payment for Feraheme may adversely impact our future revenues. The magnitude of the impact of these laws on our business is uncertain. Further, in recent years some states have also passed legislation to control the prices of drugs as well as begun a move toward managed care to relieve some of their Medicaid cost burden. While Medicare is the predominant payor for Feraheme for treatment of patients with CKD, Medicare payment policy, in time, can also influence pricing and reimbursement in the non-Medicare markets, as private third-party payors and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting reimbursement methodologies. These and any future changes in government regulation or private third-party payors' reimbursement policies may reduce the extent of reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future operating results. In January 2011, a prospective payment system for renal dialysis services provided to Medicare beneficiaries who have end-stage renal disease, or ESRD, became effective under which virtually all costs of providing renal dialysis services are reimbursed under a single prospective payment per treatment. This bundled approach to reimbursement has and will likely continue to alter the utilization of physician-administered drugs in the ESRD market as well as put downward pressure on the prices pharmaceutical companies can charge ESRD facilities for such drugs, particularly where alternative products are available. In the U.S., Feraheme is sold at a price that is substantially higher than 47 Table of Contents alternative IV iron products in the dialysis setting, and as a result, the demand for Feraheme in the dialysis setting has largely disappeared. In addition, in the U.S., for the inpatient hospital setting, most drugs are not reimbursed separately within the Medicare prospective payment system based on the drug costs, but are bundled as a per discharge reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatments, thereby increasing the incentive for a hospital to limit or control expenditures. As a result, we do not expect Feraheme to be broadly used in the inpatient hospital setting. Currently, in U.S. physician clinic and hospital outpatient settings, Medicare Part B generally reimburses for physician-administered drugs at a rate of 106% of the drug's average sales price, or ASP. ASP is defined by statute based on certain historical sales and sales incentive data, including rebates and chargebacks, for a defined period of time. Manufacturers submit the required information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, on a quarterly basis. In advance of the quarter in which the payment limit for drugs reimbursed under Medicare Part B program will go into effect, CMS calculates and publishes the payment limit. Under this methodology, payment rates change on a quarterly basis, and significant downward fluctuations in ASP, and therefore reimbursement rates, could negatively impact sales of a product. Because ASP is defined by statute, and changes to Medicare payment methodologies require legislative change, it is unclear if and when ASP reimbursement methodology will change for the physician office setting. For hospital outpatient departments, the Medicare payment methodology for many covered Part B drugs also is at 106% of ASP, but CMS could change the payment methodology through regulations, without any intervening legislation. While Medicare is the predominant payor for treatment of patients with CKD, Medicare payment policy, in time, can also influence pricing and reimbursement in the non-Medicare markets, as private third-party payors and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting reimbursement methodologies. We cannot predict the impact that any changes in reimbursement policies may have on our ability to compete effectively. In addition, it is also possible that a "bundled" payment approach, like for renal dialysis services under Medicare, may be applied to other specific disease states other than ESRD. For example, one large insurer in the U.S has attempted to bundle certain costs related to the treatment of cancer patients. Further changes in the Medicare reimbursement rate, which result in lower payment rates from payors, including Medicare payors, would further limit our ability to successfully market and sell our products in the U.S. In countries outside of the U.S., market acceptance of Feraheme/Rienso may also depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within existing healthcare payment systems. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside of the U.S., the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payor of healthcare costs of patients and therefore enjoys significant market power. Some foreign countries also set prices for pharmaceutical products as part of the regulatory process, and we cannot guarantee that the prices set by such governments will be sufficient to generate substantial revenues or allow sales of Feraheme/Rienso to be profitable in those countries. In addition, Takeda may be unable to obtain favorable pricing in certain countries in Europe making the commercialization impractical and preventing them from launching in those countries. Any such limitations on the reimbursement for Feraheme/Rienso in countries outside of the U.S. would have an adverse impact on Takeda's ability to generate product sales of Feraheme/Rienso in such territories, which would, in turn, limit the amount of royalties we may receive under our amended agreement with Takeda. In the U.S. there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state legislative initiatives implemented to reform the healthcare system in ways that could adversely impact our business and our ability to sell Feraheme profitably. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the U.S. healthcare system. For example, the Patient Protection 48 Table of Contents and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, together the Health Care Reform Act, was enacted in the U.S. in March 2010 . The Health Care Reform Act contains a number of provisions that significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry and may negatively affect our potential Feraheme revenues. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, expansion of the 340B program, and fraud and abuse and enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. The Healthcare Reform Act made significant changes to the Medicaid program, including an increase to the minimum rebates for products covered by Medicaid programs from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for most innovator products and the expansion of the 340B Drug Discount Program under the Public Health Service Act. Effective March 23, 2010, the Health Care Reform Act expanded manufacturer rebate liability under the Medicaid program from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Act and subsequent legislation changed the definition of average manufacturer price. Finally, the Healthcare Reform Act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government beginning in 2011. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $3.0 billion in 2014 (and set to increase in ensuing years), based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been added, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare providers and potentially incur additional costs. While we are continuing to evaluate this legislation and its potential impact on our business, this legislation may adversely affect the demand for Feraheme in the U.S. or cause us to incur additional expenses and therefore adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Many of the Healthcare Reform Act's most significant reforms do not take effect until 2014. In 2012, CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid program, issued proposed regulations to implement the changes to the drug rebate components of the Medicaid program under the Healthcare Reform Act but has not yet issued final regulations. CMS is currently expected to release the final regulations in 2014. The Healthcare Reform Act also expanded the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing discount program. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B "ceiling price" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. The Healthcare Reform Act expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Healthcare Reform Act. For example, the percentage of Feraheme business sold to 340B institutions has grown from 11% in 2011 to 15% in 2013. Since these institutions are granted lower prices than those offered to our other customers, any further growth in the 340B business may have a negative impact on our sales price per gram and gross margins. The Healthcare Reform Act also obligates the Secretary of the HHS to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340B program and to update the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340B program to obligate a manufacturer to offer the 340B price to covered entities if the manufacturer makes the drug available to any other purchaser at any price and to report to the government the ceiling prices for its drugs. HRSA is expected to issue a comprehensive proposed regulation in 2014 that will address many aspects of the 340B program. When that regulation is finalized, it could affect our obligations under the 340B program in ways we cannot anticipate. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B 49 Table of Contents program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in the inpatient setting. Moreover, legislative changes to the Healthcare Reform Act remain possible. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act, as currently enacted or as it may be amended in the future, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase our product sales. In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the state level in the U.S. We cannot predict the impact that newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. We expect that there will continue to be a number of U.S. federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls and limit the growth of healthcare costs. These efforts could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting the prices that can be charged for Feraheme or the amount of reimbursement rates and terms available from governmental agencies or third-party payors, limiting the profitability of Feraheme, increasing our rebate liability or limiting the commercial opportunity for Feraheme, including its acceptance by healthcare payors. Our inability to obtain raw and other materials used in the manufacture of Feraheme/Rienso could adversely impact our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme/Rienso, which would have an adverse impact on our business. We and our third-party manufacturers currently purchase certain raw and other materials used to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso from third-party suppliers and at present do not have long-term supply contracts with most of these third parties. These third-party suppliers may cease to produce the raw or other materials used in Feraheme/Rienso or otherwise fail to supply these materials to us or our third-party manufacturers or fail to supply sufficient quantities of these materials to us or our third-party manufacturers in a timely manner for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following: •Unexpected demand for or shortage of raw or other materials; •Adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier; •Regulatory requirements or action; •An inability to provide timely scheduling and/or sufficient capacity; •Manufacturing difficulties; •Changes to the specifications of the raw materials such that they no longer meet our standards; •Labor disputes or shortages; or •Import or export problems. If any of our third-party suppliers cease to supply certain raw or other materials to us or our third-party manufacturers for any reason we could be unable to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso in sufficient quantities, on a timely basis, or in a cost-effective manner until we are able to qualify an alternative source. For example, one of the key components in ferumoxytol is produced specifically for us by a third-party supplier and if our third-party supplier is no longer able to supply it to us we will be unable to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso until we are able to identify and qualify an alternative supplier. This or any other interruption in our third-party supply chain could adversely affect our ability to satisfy commercial demand and our clinical development needs for Feraheme/Rienso. The qualification of an alternative source may require repeated testing of the new materials and generate greater expenses to us if materials that we test do not perform in an acceptable manner. In addition, we or our third-party manufacturers sometimes obtain raw or other materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole 50 Table of Contents supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high quality standards imposed on our raw or other materials, we or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to obtain such materials of the quality required to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain raw or other materials from an alternative source, if these raw or other materials are not available in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we would be unable to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso, both for commercial sale and for use in our clinical trials, on a timely and cost-effective basis, which could cause us to lose money. Any such difficulty in obtaining raw or other materials could severely hinder our ability to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues and to achieve profitability. Moreover, Access is likely subject to many of the same third party risks regarding the manufacture and supply of MuGard, which would impact our ability to generate revenues of MuGard in the U.S. If we or Takeda market or distribute Feraheme/Rienso or if we market or distribute MuGard in a manner that violates federal, state or foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws, marketing disclosure laws or other federal, state or foreign laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements in the U.S. and abroad, we are subject to extensive additional federal, state and foreign healthcare regulation, which includes but is not limited to, the Federal False Claims Act, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and their state analogues, and similar laws in countries outside of the U.S., laws governing sampling and distribution of products, and government price reporting laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, false or fraudulent claims for reimbursed drugs or services, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug, that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries throughout the world in which we intend to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso through Takeda. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry, but we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations. If we, our representatives, or Takeda fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us and/or Takeda, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we and/or Takeda market and sell Feraheme/Rienso and how we market and sell MuGard, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation, or other sanctions. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, several U.S. states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs or codes of conduct and/or to file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered by additional states and foreign governments. In addition, as part of the Health Care Reform Act, the federal government has enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine Act and related regulations. Beginning in August 2013, manufacturers of drugs are required to capture information to allow for the public reporting of gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties 51 Table of Contents for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Compliance with these laws is difficult, time consuming and costly, and if we are found to not be in full compliance with these laws, we may face enforcement actions, fines and other penalties, and we could receive adverse publicity which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with any federal, state or foreign laws or regulations governing our industry, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, harm or prevent sales of our products, or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under U.S. governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could pay penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a condition of reimbursement by various U.S. federal and state healthcare programs for Feraheme, we are required to calculate and report certain pricing information to U.S. federal and state healthcare agencies. We participate in and have certain price reporting obligations to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, and we have obligations to report Average Sales Price, or ASP, for the Medicare program. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient products that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to the CMS. These data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products such as Feraheme, the best price for each drug. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to CMS of our current average manufacturer prices and best prices for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid program. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities, such as safety-net providers, under the 340B drug discount program. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid rebate program. Federal law also requires that a company that participates in the Medicaid program report ASP information to CMS for certain categories of drugs that are paid under Part B of the Medicare program, such as Feraheme. This ASP information forms the basis for reimbursement for the majority of our current Feraheme business in the U.S. Manufacturers calculate ASP based on a statutorily defined formula and interpretations of the statute by CMS as to what should or should not be considered in computing ASP. An ASP for each National Drug Code for a product that is subject to the ASP reporting requirement must be submitted to CMS no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. CMS uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under Medicare Part B. Changes affecting the calculation of ASP could affect the ASP calculations for our products and the resulting Medicare payment rate, and could negatively impact our results of operations. 52 Table of Contents Price reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The calculations of average manufacturer price, best price, and ASP include a number of inputs from our contracts with wholesalers, specialty distributors, GPOs and other customers. It also requires us to make an assessment of whether these agreements are deemed to be for bona fide services and that the services are deemed to be at fair market value in our industry and for our products. These calculations are very complex and could involve the need for us to unbundle or reallocate discounts or rebates offered over a multiple quarters or across multiple products. Our processes for estimating amounts due under these governmental pricing programs involve subjective decisions and estimates. The unbundling of discounts and rebates across multiple reporting periods can result in a restatement of government price reports and changes to the reimbursement rates for various customers covered under federal programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or the 340B program. If we have to restate our calculation of government price reports, we may be forced to refund certain monies back to payers to comply with federal pricing agreements. Such a restatement of our government price reports would also adversely impact our reported financial results of operations in the period of such restatement. As a result, our price reporting calculations remain subject to the risk of errors and our methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under the Federal False Claims Act or other laws. In addition, the Health Care Reform Act modified the rules related to certain price reports, among other things. Presently, uncertainty exists as many of the specific determinations necessary to implement this new legislation have yet to be decided and communicated to industry participants. This uncertainty in the interpretation of the legislation increases the chances of an error in price reporting, which could in turn lead to a legal challenge, restatement or investigation. If we become subject to investigations, restatements, or other inquiries concerning our compliance with price reporting laws and regulations, we could be required to pay or be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false average manufacturer price, average sales price, or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly average manufacturer price, average sales price, and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the information is late beyond the due date. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs. If we overcharge the government, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. We have a history of significant operating losses, we may not be profitable in the future, and if we do attain profitability, such profitability may not be sustainable. In the past, we have financed our operations primarily from the sale of our equity securities, cash from sales of Feraheme/Rienso, cash generated by our investing activities, and payments from our licensees. As of December 31, 2013, we 53 Table of Contents had an accumulated deficit of approximately $466.3 million. Our losses were primarily the result of compensation to employees, commercialization expenses, including marketing and promotion costs, research and development costs, including costs associated with our clinical trials, and general and administrative costs, partially offset by net product sales and collaboration revenues. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses as we continue to market and sell and contract for the manufacture of Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic for use in adult CKD patients in the U.S., market and sell MuGard and if we further develop and seek marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients, which would include conducting additional human trials for which we would incur significant research and development costs over a long period of time. As a result, we will need to generate sufficient revenues in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability. There is no guarantee that we will achieve profitability or maintain profitability, if achieved, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain positive cash flow from operations. We anticipate that the majority of any revenue we generate in the next twelve months will be from sales of Feraheme/Rienso as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent for use in adult CKD patients in the U.S., royalties we may receive with respect to sales of Feraheme/Rienso in the EU and Canada under the Amended Takeda Agreement, and from sales of MuGard. We have never independently marketed or sold any products prior to Feraheme, and we may not be successful in marketing or selling Feraheme or MuGard in the U.S. and Takeda may not be successful in marketing or selling Feraheme/Rienso outside of the U.S. If we or Takeda are not successful in marketing and selling Feraheme/Rienso, if revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, or if we are otherwise unable to achieve, maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. We have limited experience independently commercializing a pharmaceutical product and no experience independently commercializing multiple products, and any failure on our part to effectively execute our Feraheme or MuGard commercial plans in the U.S. would have an adverse impact on our business. Prior to our commercialization of Feraheme in the U.S., we had never independently marketed or sold a product as we had relied on our licensees to market and sell our previously approved products. We have an internal commercial infrastructure to market and sell Feraheme and MuGard in the U.S. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining an effective commercial function with multiple products, integrating MuGard into our existing sales infrastructure, or experience a high level of employee turnover for any reason, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, maintain sales levels, and support potential sales growth could be harmed, all of which could prevent us from successfully commercializing Feraheme or MuGard in the U.S. Any failure by us to successfully commercialize Feraheme or MuGard in the U.S. could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects for our business. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so may be disruptive to our operations. We are a pharmaceutical company focused on marketing commercial products and we plan to expand our portfolio with additional commercial-stage products through acquisitions and in-licensing; thus, the range of skills of our executive officers needs to be broad and deep. If we are not able to hire and retain talent to drive commercialization and expansion of our portfolio, we will be unlikely to achieve profitability. Further, because of the specialized nature of our business, our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified sales, technical operations, managerial, scientific, and medical personnel of all levels. We have entered into employment agreements with most of our current senior executives, but such agreements do not guarantee that these executives will remain employed by us for any significant period of time, or at all. For example, in February 2014, our chief commercial officer resigned to pursue another opportunity 54 Table of Contents after only one year with us, which may lead to increased turnover. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Previously implemented workforce reductions could residually harm our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In addition, any restructuring plans we may initiate in the future may be disruptive to our operations and could harm our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel. For example, cost saving measures may distract management from our core business, harm our reputation, or yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond planned reductions in workforce, increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations, reduced employee productivity and a deterioration of employee morale. Any workforce reductions could also harm our ability to attract and retain qualified sales, technical operations, managerial, scientific, and medical personnel who are critical to our business. Any future employee turnover, whether occurring as part of a restructuring plan or otherwise, could cause significant disruption if we are unable to implement or maintain a sufficient succession plan for certain personnel or departments. Any failure to attract, retain or replace qualified personnel could prevent us from successfully commercializing and developing our products, impair our ability to maintain sales levels and/or support potential sales growth. Moreover, although we believe it is necessary to closely manage the cost of our operations to improve our performance, these initiatives may preclude us from making potentially significant expenditures that could improve our competitiveness over the longer term. We cannot guarantee that any cost reduction measures, or other measures we may take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings, or that any cost savings will be unaccompanied by these or other unintended consequences. We have limited experience independently distributing a pharmaceutical product, and our commercialization plans could suffer if we fail to effectively manage and maintain our supply chain and distribution network. We do not have significant experience in managing and maintaining a supply chain and distribution network, and we are placing substantial reliance on third parties to perform product supply chain services for us. Such services include packaging, warehousing, inventory management, storage and distribution of Feraheme/Rienso and MuGard. We have contracted with Packaging Coordinators, Inc. (formerly Catalent Pharma Solutions, LLC) to provide certain labeling, packaging and storage services for final U.S., Canadian and Swiss Feraheme/Rienso drug product. In addition, we have contracted with Integrated Commercialization Services, Inc. to be our exclusive third-party logistics provider to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of Feraheme in the U.S., including services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and customer service call center management. If these or any future third-parties are unable to provide uninterrupted labeling, packaging and storage services or supply chain services, respectively, we may incur substantial losses of sales to wholesalers or other purchasers of our products. In addition, the packaging, storage and distribution of our products in the U.S. and abroad requires significant coordination among our, Takeda's, and Access's manufacturing, sales, marketing and finance organizations and multiple third parties including our third-party logistics providers, packaging, labeling and storage provider, distributors, and wholesalers. In most cases, we do not currently have back-up suppliers or service providers to perform these tasks. If any of these third parties experience significant difficulties in their respective processes, fail to maintain compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, fail to meet expected deadlines or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damages at their facilities, our ability to deliver our products to meet U.S. or foreign commercial demand could be significantly impaired. The loss of any of our third-party providers, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternate distribution source for end-users in a timely manner, could cause the distribution of our products to be delayed or 55 Table of Contents interrupted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties in the conduct of our business, including our clinical trials and manufacturing, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, our commercialization and development plans may be adversely effected. We rely and intend to continue to rely on third parties, including clinical research organizations , or CROs, third-party manufacturers, third-party logistics providers, packaging and labeling providers, wholesale distributors and certain other important vendors and consultants, including those engaged by Access, in the conduct of our business. In addition, we have contracted and plan to continue to contract with certain third parties to provide certain services, including site selection, enrollment, monitoring, data management and other services, in connection with the conduct of our clinical trials and the preparation and filing of our regulatory applications. We have limited experience conducting clinical trials outside the U.S., and, therefore, we are also largely relying on third parties such as CROs to manage, monitor and carry out these clinical trials. Although we depend heavily on these parties, we do not control them and, therefore, we cannot be assured that these third parties will adequately and timely perform all of their contractual obligations to us. If our third-party service providers cannot adequately fulfill their obligations to us in a timely and satisfactory manner, if the quality and accuracy of our clinical trial data or our regulatory submissions are compromised due to poor quality or failure to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements or if such third parties otherwise fail to adequately discharge their responsibilities or meet deadlines, our current and future development plans and regulatory submissions both in and outside of the U.S may be delayed or terminated, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from Feraheme/Rienso sales in additional indications and/or outside of the U.S. Our operating results will likely fluctuate so you should not rely on the results of any single quarter to predict how we will perform over time. Our future operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, some of which we cannot control, including but not limited to: •The magnitude of U.S. Feraheme and MuGard sales; •The loss of a key customer or GPO; •The impact of any pricing or contracting strategies we have implemented or may implement related to our products, including the magnitude of rebates and/or discounts we may offer, or changes in pricing by our competitors or a new entrant into the market; •The introduction of new competitive products, such as Injectafer® or generic versions of new or currently available drug therapies; •Any expansion or contraction of the overall size of the IV iron market, which could result from a number of factors including but not limited to changes in treatment guidelines or practices related to IDA; •Changes in the actual or perceived safety or efficacy profile of our products, especially in light of the recent complete response letter we received from the FDA, that could cause customers to decrease or discontinue their use of our products or could affect the regulatory status of our products in the U.S. or elsewhere; •Changes in the actual or perceived safety or efficacy profile of products that compete with Feraheme/Rienso or MuGard that could cause our customers to decrease or discontinue their use of our products; 56 Table of Contents •The timing and magnitude of costs incurred in connection with business development activities or business development transactions into which we may enter; •Any changes to the mix of our business; •Changes in buying patterns, fees and inventory levels of our wholesalers, distributors, clinics or hospitals; •The timing and magnitude of Feraheme/Rienso milestone payments, product sales revenues and royalties we may receive from Takeda under the Amended Takeda Agreement; •The initiation or outcome of any material litigation or patent challenges to which we are or become a party and the magnitude of costs associated with such litigation; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with the commercialization of our products in the U.S., including costs associated with pursuing a broader indication of Feraheme, maintaining our commercial infrastructure and executing our promotional and marketing strategies; •Changes in accounting estimates related to reserves on revenue, returns, contingent consideration, impairment of long-lived assets or other accruals or changes in the timing and availability of government or customer discounts, rebates and incentives; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with the manufacture of Feraheme/Rienso, including costs of raw and other materials and costs associated with maintaining commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and alternative suppliers; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with our ongoing and planned clinical studies of Feraheme/Rienso in connection with our pediatric program, our current or future post-marketing commitments for the EMA and other regulatory agencies, our pursuit of additional indications and our development of Feraheme/Rienso in countries outside of the U.S; •The costs associated with manufacturing batch failures or inventory write-offs due to out-of-specification release testing or ongoing stability testing that results in a batch no longer meeting specifications; •Changes in reimbursement practices and laws and regulations affecting our products from federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory authorities, government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; •The recognition of deferred tax assets during periods in which we generate taxable income; and •The implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or policies. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates our critical and other significant estimates and judgments, including among others those associated with revenue recognition related to product sales and collaboration agreements, product sales allowances and accruals, assessing investments for potential other-than-temporary impairment and determining the fair values of our investments, the fair 57 Table of Contents value of our assets held for sale, the fair value of assets acquired in a business combination, contingent consideration, the impairment of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, accrued expenses, and equity-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on market data, our observance of trends in our industry, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. If actual results differ from these estimates, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results and the performance of our stock. As part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks, fees and other discounts require subjective and complex judgments due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. For example during each of 2013 and 2012, we revised our estimated Medicaid reserve rate, which resulted in a reduction of our estimated Medicaid rebate reserve and a corresponding increase in revenue related to prior Feraheme sales of $0.6 million. Further, during 2012, we reduced our reserve for product returns by approximately $2.2 million due to a lower than expected actual returns rate since the 2009 launch of Feraheme as well as a reduction in our expected rate of product returns in the future. In addition, to determine the required quantities of Feraheme and the related manufacturing schedule, we also need to make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends, anticipated sales, forecasts from Takeda, and other factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our and Takeda's estimates and the actual amount of product need. For example, the level of our access to wholesaler and distributor inventory levels and sales data in the U.S., which varies based on the wholesaler, distributor, clinic or hospital, affects our ability to accurately estimate certain reserves included in our financial statements. Any difference between our estimates and the actual amount of product demand could result in unmet demand or excess inventory, each of which would adversely impact our financial results and results of operations. In connection with our June 2013 acquisition of the MuGard Rights we were and will continue to be required to make estimates related to the fair value of the asset and the related contingent consideration. These estimates require significant judgment and assumptions including but not limited to estimating future cash flows from product sales and developing appropriate discount and probability rates. If these or any other related estimates made in connection with the acquisition of the MuGard Rights or any future acquisitions require adjustment in the future, we could experience significant write-offs or other adjustments and our operating results could be negatively affected. We and/or Takeda are subject to ongoing U.S. and foreign regulatory obligations and oversight of Feraheme/Rienso and MuGard, and any failure by us to maintain compliance with applicable regulations may result in several adverse consequences including the suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products, the incurrence of significant additional expense and other limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We and/or Takeda are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and review both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, marketing, promotion and record keeping related to our products. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements or the later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or our third-party contract manufacturing facilities or processes by which we manufacture our products may result in restrictions on our ability to manufacture, market or sell our products, including potential withdrawal from the market. Any such restrictions could result in a decrease in our product sales, damage to our reputation or the initiation of lawsuits against us, Takeda, or our third-party contract 58 Table of Contents manufacturers. We and/or Takeda may also be subject to additional sanctions, including but not limited to: •Warning letters; •Civil or criminal penalties; •Variation, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •Changes to the package insert of our products, such as additional warnings regarding potential side effects or potential limitations on the current dosage and administration of Feraheme/Rienso or IV irons as a class; •Requirements to communicate with physicians and other customers about concerns related to actual or potential safety, efficacy, or other issues involving our products; •Implementation of risk mitigation programs and post-marketing obligations; •Restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing or sale of our products; •Temporary or permanent closing of the facilities of our third-party contract manufacturers; or •Recalls or a refusal by regulators to consider or approve applications for additional indications. Any of the above sanctions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and cause us to incur significant additional expenses. Moreover, Access is subject to many of the same regulatory requirements and sanctions related to MuGard, which would impact our ability to generate revenues of MuGard in the U.S. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. If we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant fines and other liability. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product's approved labeling. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant government fines and other related liability. For example, the U.S. government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The government has also required companies to enter into complex corporate integrity agreements and/or non-prosecution agreements that can impose significant restrictions and other burdens on the affected companies. In addition, incentives exist under applicable U.S. law that encourage employees and physicians to report violations of rules governing promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. These incentives could lead to so called whistleblower lawsuits as part of which such persons seek to collect a portion of moneys allegedly overbilled to government agencies due to, for example, promotion of pharmaceutical products beyond labeled claims. Such lawsuits, whether with or without merit, are typically time consuming and costly to defend. Such suits may also result in related shareholder lawsuits, which are also costly to defend. 59 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has ranged between $15.90 and $28.42 in the fifty-two week period through February 3, 2014. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Various factors and events, many of which are beyond our control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Factors which may affect the market price of our common stock include, among others: •Our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in the U.S. and Takeda's ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in licensed territories outside of the U.S.; •Our ability to increase or maintain sales and utilization of Feraheme in the current indication or the results of our efforts to expand the indications for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in adult patients who have failed or could not use oral iron, especially in light of FDA's recent decision that we have not provided sufficient information to permit labeling of Feraheme for safe and effective use for this population; •Fluctuations in our net revenue per unit of Feraheme sold in the U.S. in future periods as a result of our pricing and contracting strategy; •Actual or perceived safety concerns related to our products or products or product candidates of our competitors, including as a result of the FDA's recent complete response letter addressing our sNDA and any actions taken by U.S. or foreign regulatory authorities in connection with safety concerns, or any voluntary or involuntary product recalls; •Significant collaboration, product or business acquisitions, joint venture or similar agreements by us or our competitors or the termination of any current or future material collaboration agreements; •The timing and magnitude of product revenue and actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •Changes in or our failure to meet financial estimates published by securities analysts or our own publicly disclosed financial guidance; •Increases or decreases in our operating expenses or our gross margin on our products; •Developments in patents or other proprietary rights by or for the benefit of us or our competitors, such as the recent decision by the EPO regarding our European ferumoxytol patent or decisions regarding Feraheme's NCE status or an ANDA filing by a generic entrant; •Our ability to successfully integrate MuGard with our business and market MuGard in the U.S.; •The availability of reimbursement coverage for our products or changes in the reimbursement policies of U.S. or foreign governmental or private payors; •Public announcements of U.S. or foreign regulatory actions with respect to our products or products or product candidates of our competitors; •The status or results of clinical trials for Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •The acquisition, development or regulatory approvals of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; 60 Table of Contents •Cash milestones earned, if any, under the Amended Takeda Agreement; •The initiation or outcome of any material litigation or patent challenges to which we are or may become a party; •Shareholder activism and attempts to disrupt our strategy by activist investors; •General market conditions; and •Sales of large blocks of our common stock or the dilutive effect of any equity or equity-linked financings or alternative strategic arrangements. Thus, as a result of events both within and beyond our control, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or lose value rapidly. If securities analysts downgrade our stock, cease coverage of us, or if our operating results do not meet analysts' forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us and our business. As of February 3, 2014, seven financial analysts publish reports about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. In addition, our future operating results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and our stock price could decline significantly if we fail to meet or exceed analysts' forecasts and expectations. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, lower their price target or issue commentary or observations about us or our stock that are perceived by the market as negative, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. In addition, if these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could also cause our stock price to decline. If our operating results do not meet our own publicly disclosed financial guidance our stock price could decline. In February 2014, we publicly provided financial guidance, including expected 2014 net U.S. Feraheme and other revenue, including revenue from MuGard, ex-U.S. product sales and royalties and milestones, estimated operating expenses, estimated cost of goods sold as a percent of net Feraheme products sales, and operating the business to break-even for the full year of 2014. If, for any reason, we are unable to realize our projected 2014 revenue, we may not realize our publicly announced revenue and break-even guidance. If we fail to realize or if we change or update any element of our publicly disclosed financial guidance or other expectations about our business, our stock price could decline in value. We may need additional capital to achieve our business objectives. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to successfully commercialize and develop Feraheme. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •Our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in the U.S. and Takeda's ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in its licensed territories outside of the U.S.; •Our ability to obtain regulatory approval for Feraheme/Rienso to treat IDA regardless of the underlying cause both within the U.S. and outside of the U.S., particularly in the EU, especially in light of FDA's recent decision that we have not provided sufficient information to permit labeling of Feraheme for safe and effective use for this population and the need to undertake additional clinical trials in order to pursue the broader indication; 61 Table of Contents •The magnitude and growth rate of U.S. Feraheme sales over prior periods; The magnitude of Feraheme/Rienso sales and royalties we may receive from Takeda outside of the U.S.; •The success, costs and structure of any business or corporate development initiatives to bring additional products into our portfolio; •The outcome of and costs associated with any material litigation or patent challenges to which we are or may become a party; •Our ability to achieve the various milestones and receive the associated payments under the Amended Takeda Agreement; •Costs associated with the U.S. commercialization of our products, including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure, executing our promotional and marketing strategies, and conducting our required pediatric clinical studies and any post-marketing clinical studies for Feraheme; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and alternative suppliers; •Our ability to maintain successful collaborations with our licensees and/or to enter into additional alternative strategic relationships, if necessary; and •Our ability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us, if necessary. We estimate that our cash resources as of December 31, 2013, combined with cash we currently expect to receive from sales of Feraheme/Rienso and MuGard, earnings on our investments, and royalty and milestone payments we may receive from Takeda will be sufficient to finance our currently planned operations for at least the next twelve months. We may require additional funds or need to establish additional alternative strategic arrangements to execute a business development transaction. We may at any time seek funding through additional arrangements with collaborators through public or private equity or debt financings. We may not be able to obtain financing or to secure alternative strategic arrangements on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. Any equity or equity-linked financings or alternative strategic arrangements would be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, the terms of any potential debt financing could greatly restrict our ability to raise additional capital and may provide rights and preferences to the investors in any such financing which are senior to those of, and not available to, current stockholders, impose restrictions on our day-to-day operations or place limitations on our ability to enter into combination transactions with other entities. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us when needed could force us to dramatically reduce our expenses and delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our activities and operations, including our commercialization and development activities, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future business prospects. The investment of our cash is subject to risks, which may cause losses or adversely affect the liquidity of these investments and our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2013, we had $27.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and $186.8 million in investments. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been and may, in the future, be exacerbated by a U.S. and/or global financial crisis. We may realize losses in the fair value of certain of our investments or a complete loss of these 62 Table of Contents investments if the credit markets tighten, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The condition of the credit markets can be unpredictable. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity with respect to our investments. In addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. Further, as part of our determination of the fair value of our investments, we consider credit ratings provided by independent investment rating agencies as of the valuation date. These ratings are subject to change. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash position, liquidity and overall financial condition. We are subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements that could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of U.S. federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in our expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of future transactions involving our common stock. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally three years. An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such "ownership change." Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we have estimated would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such net operating losses and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such net operating losses and tax credits and potentially adversely affecting our financial position. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. For example, in 2011, MSMB Capital Management LLC, or MSMB Capital, filed a preliminary consent solicitation statement with the SEC seeking to remove and replace most of our then-current directors with MSMB Capital's nominees. The review, consideration and response to efforts by activist shareholders may require the expenditure of significant time and resources by us and may be a significant distraction for our management and employees. The impact of activist shareholders' efforts due to these or other factors may undermine our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully defend against the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. 63 Table of Contents If we identify a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, or we experience high turnover of our personnel in our financial reporting functions, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ or other regulatory authorities. An adverse determination in any current or future lawsuits in which we are a defendant, including the class action lawsuit to which we are currently a party, could have a material adverse effect on us. A purported class action complaint was originally filed on March 18, 2010 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, entitled Silverstrand Investments et. al. v. AMAG Pharm., Inc., et. al., Civil Action No. 1:10-CV-10470-NMG, and was amended on September 15, 2010 and on December 17, 2010. The second amended complaint, or SAC, filed on December 17, 2010 alleged that we and our former President and Chief Executive Officer, former Chief Financial Officer, the then-members of our Board of Directors, or Board, and certain underwriters in our January 2010 offering of common stock violated certain federal securities laws, specifically Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and that our former President and Chief Executive Officer and former Chief Financial Officer violated Section 15 of such Act, respectively, by making certain alleged omissions in a registration statement filed in January 2010. The plaintiffs sought unspecified damages on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our common stock pursuant to our common stock offering on or about January 21, 2010. On August 11 and 15, 2011, respectively, the District Court issued an Opinion and Order dismissing the SAC with prejudice for failure to state a claim upon which relief could be granted. On September 14, 2011, the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, or the Court of Appeals. The Court of Appeals heard oral argument on May 11, 2012. On February 4, 2013, the Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part the District Court's Opinion and Order and remanded the case to the District Court. On February 19, 2013, we filed a Petition for Panel Rehearing and Rehearing En Banc, which was denied on March 15, 2013. On March 22, 2013, we filed a Motion to Stay the Mandate remanding the case to the District Court pending review by the U.S. Supreme Court of the Court of Appeals' February 4, 2013 decision. The Court of Appeals granted the Motion to Stay the Mandate on April 8, 2013. On June 13, 2013, we filed a Petition for a Writ of Certiorari, or the Petition, with the U.S. Supreme Court seeking review of the Court of Appeal's decision and to have that decision overturned. On October 7, 2013 the U.S. Supreme Court denied our Petition, resulting in the case's return to the District Court 64 Table of Contents for further proceedings relative to the SAC's surviving claims. On November 6, 2013, we filed a renewed Motion to Dismiss the SAC's surviving claims. On December 6, 2013, the plaintiffs filed a brief in opposition to our Motion to Dismiss and we filed a reply brief in support of our Motion on December 27, 2013. The plaintiffs are seeking leave of court to file a sur-reply in further opposition to our Motion to Dismiss. No hearing on the Motion to Dismiss is currently scheduled. Whether or not the plaintiff's appeal is successful, this type of litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect the operation of our business. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could adversely affect our operations. We may also be the target of similar litigation in the future. Any future litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Though we maintain liability insurance, if any costs or expenses associated with this or any other litigation exceed our insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these costs and expenses directly, which could be substantial. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products. The administration of our products to, or the use of our products by, humans, whether in clinical trials or after approval for commercial use, may expose us to liability claims, whether or not our products are actually at fault for causing an injury. As Feraheme/Rienso is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients taking numerous other medicines or by patients with additional underlying health problems, the likelihood of adverse drug reactions or unintended side effects, including death, may increase. While these adverse events are rare, all IV irons, including Feraheme/Rienso, can cause patients to experience serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic-type reactions, some of which have been life-threatening and/or fatal. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials and commercial use, coverage is expensive, and we may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Product liability claims, whether or not they have merit, could also decrease demand for our products, subject us to product recalls or harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs, and divert management's time and attention. Our shareholder rights plan, certain provisions in our charter and by-laws, certain contractual relationships and certain Delaware law provisions could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current members of our Board. We have a shareholder rights plan, the provisions of which are intended to deter a hostile takeover by making any proposed hostile acquisition of us more expensive and less desirable to a potential acquirer by enabling our stockholders (other than the potential hostile acquiror) to purchase significant amounts of additional shares of our common stock at dilutive prices. The rights issued pursuant to our shareholder rights plan become exercisable generally upon the earlier of 10 days after a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after the announcement by a person or group of an intention to acquire 20% of our outstanding common stock via tender offer or similar transaction. The shareholder rights plan could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current prices. In addition, certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or takeover attempt of our company by a third-party as well as 65 Table of Contents substantially impede the ability of our stockholders to benefit from a change of control or effect a change in management and our Board. These provisions include: •The ability of our Board to increase or decrease the size of the Board without stockholder approval; •Advance notice requirements for the nomination of candidates for election to our Board and for proposals to be brought before our annual meeting of stockholders; •The authority of our Board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •Non-cumulative voting for directors; and •Limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or Section 203, which prevents us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," which is defined generally as a person that acquires 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our stockholders. In addition to the above factors, an acquisition of our company could be made more difficult by employment agreements we have in place with our executive officers, as well as a company-wide change of control policy, which provide for severance benefits as well as the full acceleration of vesting of any outstanding options or restricted stock units in the event of a change of control and subsequent termination of employment. Further, our Third Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan generally permits our Board to provide for the acceleration of vesting of options granted under that plan in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. 