Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. If any of the events described below should occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or which we currently deem to be immaterial, could also harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation regarding the conduct of our operations. If we fail to comply with any existing or new regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Overview. Companies such as ours that provide health care services are required to comply with many highly complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, those relating to the adequacy of medical care, billing for services, patient privacy, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and maintenance of records. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses to operate our facilities. We could also become unable to participate in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state health care programs that significantly contribute to our revenue. Because many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are relatively new, in many cases we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of such laws and regulations could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or capital expenditure programs. We are subject to “anti-kickback” and “self-referral” laws and regulations that provide for criminal and civil penalties if they are violated. The health care industry is subject to many laws and regulations designed to deter and prevent practices deemed by the government to be fraudulent or abusive. Unless an exception applies, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark law” prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of enumerated “designated health services” with whom the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be “self referrals” due to the physician’s financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated health care services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of the payment for the care. We systematically review all of our operations on an ongoing basis and believe that we are in compliance with the Stark law and similar state statutes. We also maintain a company-wide compliance program in order to monitor and promote our continued compliance with these and other statutory prohibitions and requirements. Nevertheless, if it is determined that certain of our practices or operations violate the Stark law or similar statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare or Medicaid programs. The imposition of any such penalties could harm our business. Providers in the hospital industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations and we could become subject to such investigations in the future. For the past several years, significant media and public attention has been focused on the hospital industry due to ongoing investigations related to referrals, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home health care services and physician ownership of joint ventures involving hospitals. Both federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts and the Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services and the United States Department of Justice have, from time to time, established enforcement initiatives that focus on specific areas of suspected fraud and abuse. Recent initiatives include a focus on hospital billing practices. We closely monitor our billing and other hospital practices to maintain compliance with prevailing industry interpretations of applicable laws and regulations and we believe that our practices are consistent with current industry practices. However, government investigations could be initiated which are inconsistent with industry practices and prevailing interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In public statements, governmental authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation had been previously available. Some of these positions appear to be inconsistent with practices that have been common within the industry and which have not previously been challenged. Moreover, some government investigations that were previously conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under fraud and abuse laws. 12 We cannot predict whether we will be the subject of future investigations or inquiries. Any determination that we have violated any laws or regulations or even the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations could harm our business. We could fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding patient privacy and patient information security. In recent years, there have been numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security standards related to patient information. In particular, federal regulations issued under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, contain provisions that required us to implement, and in the future may require us to implement costly new electronic media security systems and to adopt new business procedures designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and related financial information. Compliance with such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulation requirements to third parties that perform functions on our behalf. We cannot predict what the total financial or other impact of these laws and regulations will be on our business over time. We are also required to make certain expenditures to help ensure our continued compliance with such laws and regulations and, in the future, such expenses could negatively impact our results of operations. If we were found to have violated or failed to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and our business could be harmed. We are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. In recent years, an increasing number of initiatives have been introduced or proposed at the federal and state levels that would affect major changes in the health care delivery system. Among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. We cannot predict whether any health care reform proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no assurances can be given that the implementation of such reforms will not harm our business. If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid. The construction and operation of health care facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. In addition, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by governmental authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. Our general acute care hospitals (and substantially all of our laboratories and home health agencies) are accredited, meaning that they are properly licensed under appropriate state laws and regulations, certified under the Medicare program and accredited by JCAHO. The effect of maintaining accredited facilities is to permit such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that all of our health care facilities are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and independent review body regulations and standards. Nevertheless, should any of our health care facilities lose their accredited status, and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be harmed. Moreover, the requirements for accreditation are subject to change and, in order for all of our facilities to remain accredited, it may be necessary for us to affect changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services. Such changes could be expensive and could harm our results of operations. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. The construction of new health care facilities, the acquisition of existing health care facilities and the addition of new beds or services at existing health care facilities may be reviewed by state regulatory agencies under certificate of need and similar laws. Except for Arkansas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Texas, all of the states in which our hospitals are located have certificate of need or similar laws. Such laws generally require appropriate state agency determination of public need and local agency approval prior to the addition of new beds or significant 13 services to a hospital, or a related capital expenditure. Our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility’s license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. Increased state regulation of the rates we charge for our services could harm our results of operations. We currently operate a hospital in West Virginia, a state that requires us to submit annual requests for increases to hospital charges. As a result, in West Virginia our ability to increase our rates to compensate for increased costs is limited and the operating margins for such hospital may be adversely affected if we are not able to increase our rates as our expenses increase, or if the rates we may charge are decreased as a result of regulatory action. Although we plan to divest the hospital we currently own in West Virginia, if other states in which we operate hospitals enact similar rate-setting laws, our business could be harmed. If government programs or managed care companies reduce the payments we receive as reimbursement for the health care services we provide, our revenue could decline. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Changes in these government programs have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. The uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the ongoing military engagement in Iraq, the War on Terrorism, and Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma relief efforts, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, private payors, including managed care payors, increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through capitation arrangements. We expect continued third party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and enforce more stringent cost controls. If any reimbursement reductions are material, the payments we receive for the health care services we provide would be affected and our results of operations could be harmed. The growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. The primary collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to uninsured patient accounts and to patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement but patient responsibility amounts (e.g., deductibles, co-payments and other amounts not covered by insurance) remain outstanding. Our provision for doubtful accounts relates to, among other things, amounts due directly from such patients. The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based upon our assessment of historical write-offs, expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer health care coverage and other collection indicators. If we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations could be harmed. If the number of patients treated by our subsidiary hospitals in accordance with applicable law and each hospital’s indigent and charity care guidelines increase, our results of operations may be harmed. In accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, or EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital’s written procedures. If the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations may be harmed. 14 Our growth strategy depends on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. We may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. Acquisitions of acute care hospitals in attractive, non-urban markets are a key element of our growth strategy. We face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. In addition, many states have enacted, or from time to time consider enactment of, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. Moreover, attorney generals in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. We may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations. Most of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. If we are unable to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business. Other hospitals and freestanding outpatient facilities provide services similar to ours, which may raise the level of competition we face and adversely affect our results of operations. In some of the areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals, some of which are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenue and others that are owned by not-for-profit corporations and may be supported, in part, by endowments and charitable contributions. Such support is not available to our hospitals. In some cases, the hospitals that compete with our hospitals may be a significant distance away from our facilities; however, patients in our markets may migrate, may be referred by local physicians or may be required by their health plan to travel to these hospitals for care. Furthermore, some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals may be better equipped than our hospitals and could offer a broader range of services than we do. Moreover, outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities (including many in which physicians have an ownership interest), outpatient surgical centers and freestanding ambulatory surgical centers also adversely affect our market share. If our hospitals are not able to effectively attract patients, our business could be harmed. Our facilities are heavily concentrated in Florida and Mississippi, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. We operated 57 hospitals at September 30, 2005, with 26 of those hospitals in Florida and Mississippi. Upon completion of our previously announced acquisitions, we will operate 61 hospitals, with 28 of those hospitals in Florida and Mississippi. Such geographic concentration of our hospitals makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in those states. Any material change in the regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionately large effect on our business. 15 In addition, both Florida and Mississippi are located in hurricane-prone areas. In the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in Florida and Mississippi, the patient populations in such states and our corporate headquarters in Naples, Florida. Our business and corporate office activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm. We cannot be certain that we will be able to secure additional financing when needed. The degree to which we are, or in the future may become, leveraged could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing and could make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures. For example, holders of our New 2022 Notes and our 2023 Notes (as such debt securities are described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8) have the right to require us to repurchase their notes on January 28, 2006 and August 1, 2006, respectively. Our ability to meet existing and future debt obligations, including such repurchase obligations, depends upon our future performance and our ability to secure additional financing on satisfactory terms, each of which is subject to financial, business and other factors that are beyond our control. Any failure by us to meet our financial obligations would harm our business. We also require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. Financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs may not be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. Physicians make admitting decisions and decisions regarding the appropriate course of patient treatment, which, in turn, affects hospital revenue. Therefore, the success of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. Physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of the markets that we serve, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. If we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. Additionally, we could find it difficult to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. Our inability to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby harm our results of operations. Our hospitals face competition for medical support staff, including nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and other personnel, which may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. We are highly dependent on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. On a national level, a shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue for a number of health care providers. In the future, this national shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. In addition, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. If our general labor and related expenses increase we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. We depend heavily on key management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and on the efforts, ability and experience of key members of our local hospital management staffs. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of a significant portion of our local hospital management staffs could significantly weaken our management expertise and our ability to efficiently deliver health care services, which could harm our business. 16 We may incur liabilities not covered by our insurance or which exceed our insurance limits. In the ordinary course of business, our subsidiary hospitals are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits and other legal actions. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. We believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our subsidiary facilities. However, if payments for claims exceed our estimates or if payments are required to be made by us that are not covered by insurance, our business could be harmed. Our business could be impaired by a failure of our proprietary information technology system. The performance of our proprietary management information system, known as the Pulse System®, is critical to our business operations. Any failure that causes a material interruption in the availability of the Pulse System® could adversely affect our operations or delay our cash collections. Although we have implemented network security measures, our servers could become vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and disruptions from unauthorized tampering, as well as hurricane-related interruptions. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of the Pulse System®, which could harm our business. Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. The stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. Moreover, if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. In addition to our operating results, many factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock, including certain of the risks discussed above, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, the level of seasonal illnesses, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. Available Information We maintain an internet website located at www.hma-corp.com. On our website we make available, free of charge, documents we file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC. We make this information available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such information to, the SEC. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our website. The other information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Our Board of Directors’ committee charters (Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Executive Committee), Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines are posted on our website under Investor Relations. Copies of such charters are available in print to any stockholder who makes a request. Such requests should be made to our Corporate Secretary at our Naples, Florida corporate headquarters. 