ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: The following is a summary description of some of the material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following statements should be carefully considered in evaluating us. We are solely dependent on the success of Feraheme. Our ability to generate future revenues is solely dependent on our successful commercialization and development of Feraheme. We currently sell only one other product, GastroMARK, in the U.S. and in certain foreign jurisdictions through our marketing partners. However, sales of GastroMARK have been at their current levels for the last several years, and we do not expect sales of GastroMARK to materially increase. Accordingly, if we are unable to generate sufficient revenues from sales of Feraheme, we may never be profitable, our financial condition will be materially adversely affected, and our business prospects will be limited. We intend to dedicate significant resources to our Feraheme development efforts; however, we may not be successful in expanding the potential indications or developing new applications for Feraheme. Although we are pursuing or have commenced additional clinical trials for Feraheme in indications other than chronic kidney disease, or CKD, and as an imaging agent, we are not currently conducting or sponsoring research to expand our product development pipeline beyond Feraheme and therefore our revenues and operations will not be as diversified as some of our competitors which have multiple products or product candidates. Any failure by us to acquire, develop and commercialize additional products and product candidates or gain approval for additional indications or uses for Feraheme could limit long-term shareholder value and would adversely affect the future prospects of our business. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries is intense. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are or are perceived to be more effective, safer, more convenient or have more favorable pricing, insurance coverage, coding and reimbursement than Feraheme, the commercial opportunity for Feraheme will be adversely impacted. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid technological change. We have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally, and many have greater financial and other resources, and more experienced trade, sales, and manufacturing organizations, than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have name recognition, established positions in the market and long-standing relationships with customers and distributors. Our Feraheme commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop, commercialize or acquire or license technologies and drug products that are or are perceived to be safer, more effective, and/or easier to administer, or have more favorable pricing, insurance coverage, coding and reimbursement than Feraheme. There are currently two options for treating iron deficiency anemia, or IDA, in CKD patients: oral iron supplements and intravenous, or IV, iron. Feraheme primarily competes with two other IV iron replacement therapies, including Venofer®, which is marketed in the U.S. by Fresenius Medical Care North America, or Fresenius, and American Regent Laboratories, Inc., a subsidiary of Luitpold Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Luitpold, and Ferrlecit®, which is marketed by Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC. Feraheme may not receive the same level of market acceptance as these competing iron replacement therapy products, especially since these products have been on the market longer and are currently widely used by physicians. We may not be able to convince physicians and other healthcare providers or payors to switch from using the other marketed IV iron therapeutic products to Feraheme. The iron replacement therapy market is highly sensitive to several factors including, but not limited to, the actual and perceived safety profile of the available products, the ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage, coding and reimbursement, price competitiveness, and product characteristics such as 23 Table of Contents convenience of administration and dosing regimens. To date, we have not conducted any head-to-head clinical studies comparing Feraheme to other IV iron replacement products. In addition to the foregoing currently marketed products, there are several iron replacement therapy products in various stages of clinical and commercial development in the U.S. and abroad, including Monofer® (iron isomaltoside 1000), an injectable iron preparation which in December 2009 received a positive recommendation in 22 European countries and a final marketing authorization in Denmark, Iceland and the Netherlands for the treatment of IDA, Injectafer®, which is known as Ferinject® in Europe and is approved for marketing in 18 European Union countries, and soluble ferric pyrophosphate, a form of iron given as part of the hemodialysis procedure. In addition to competition from other marketed products and products known by us to be currently under development, the market opportunity for Feraheme could be negatively affected if generic IV iron replacement therapy products were to be approved and achieve commercial success. For example, in July 2009, Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. announced that it entered into a license agreement with GeneraMedix, Inc. for the exclusive U.S. marketing rights to a generic version of Ferrlecit®, which is indicated for the treatment of IDA in hemodialysis patients receiving supplemental erythropoiesis stimulating agent therapy. GeneraMedix, Inc. has filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or NDA, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, which is under expedited review. Companies that manufacture generic products typically invest far less resources in research and development than the manufacturer of a branded product and can therefore price their products significantly lower than those already on the market. It remains unclear if and when a generic product will enter this market. If any of these product candidates are approved for marketing and sale by the FDA, our efforts to market and sell Feraheme and our ability to generate additional revenues and achieve profitability could be adversely affected. Feraheme may not be widely adopted by physicians, patients, healthcare payors, and the major operators of dialysis clinics in the U.S. The commercial success of Feraheme depends upon its level of market adoption by physicians, patients, and healthcare payors or providers, including dialysis clinics. If Feraheme does not achieve an adequate level of market adoption for any reason, our potential profitability and our future business prospects would be severely adversely impacted. Feraheme represents an alternative to other products and might not be adopted by the medical community if perceived to be no safer, no more effective, or no more convenient than currently available products. The degree of market acceptance of Feraheme depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to: •Our ability to demonstrate to the medical community, particularly nephrologists, hematologists, dialysis clinics and others who may purchase or prescribe Feraheme, the clinical efficacy and safety of Feraheme as an alternative to current treatments for IDA in both dialysis and non-dialysis CKD patients; •The ability of physicians and other providers to be adequately reimbursed for Feraheme in a timely manner from payors, including government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private payors, particularly in light of the expected "bundling" of costs of providing care to dialysis patients; •The relative price of Feraheme as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents; •The actual or perceived convenience and ease of administration of Feraheme as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents; 24 Table of Contents •The effectiveness of our sales and marketing organizations and our distribution network; and •The development of unanticipated adverse reactions to Feraheme resulting in safety concerns among prescribers. We market and sell Feraheme for use by both dialysis and non-dialysis CKD patients. The dialysis market is the largest and most established market for IV iron replacement therapies, with two companies serving a significant majority of all dialysis patients in the U.S. Fresenius and DaVita, Inc., or DaVita, together treat approximately two-thirds of the U.S. dialysis population. If we are unable to successfully market and sell Feraheme to physicians who treat dialysis dependent CKD patients in clinics controlled by either or both of Fresenius and DaVita, our ability to realize and grow revenues from sales of Feraheme could be limited. In addition, if we are unable to successfully market and sell Feraheme to a significant number of the dialysis clinics that treat the remaining one-third of the U.S. dialysis population, our potential profitability and our future business prospects could be materially adversely impacted. In September 2008, Fresenius finalized an exclusive sublicense agreement with Luitpold, the U.S. licensing partner of Vifor Pharma, a subsidiary of Galenica Ltd., to manufacture, sell and distribute Venofer®, an IV iron replacement therapeutic, to independent outpatient dialysis clinics in the U.S. Luitpold retains the right to sell Venofer® in the U.S. to any other customer. In addition, Galenica Ltd., Vifor Pharma and Fresenius entered into a strategic joint-venture, which became effective on January 1, 2009, to market and distribute the IV iron products Venofer® and Ferinject® in the dialysis market in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. Fresenius has significant experience selling and distributing dialysis equipment and supplies to outpatient dialysis clinics and, as a result of these agreements, it may be difficult for us to penetrate the dialysis market, particularly at its clinics. Another key component of our commercialization strategy is to market and sell Feraheme for use by non-dialysis CKD patients. The current non-dialysis market is comprised primarily of three segments: hospitals, hematology clinics and nephrology clinics. Our ability to effectively market and sell Feraheme in the hospital market depends in part upon our ability to achieve acceptance of Feraheme onto hospital formularies. In addition, since many hospitals are members of group purchasing organizations, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective bargaining power of the group, our ability to attract customers in the hospital market also depends in part on our ability to effectively promote Feraheme within group purchasing organizations. In addition, IV iron therapeutic products are not currently widely used by certain physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients due to safety concerns and the inconvenience and often impracticability of administering IV iron therapeutic products. It is often difficult to change physicians' existing treatment paradigms even when supportive clinical data is available. If we are not successful in securing and maintaining formulary coverage for Feraheme or are significantly delayed in doing so or if we are not successful in effectively promoting Feraheme to physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients , we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of Feraheme in the non-dialysis market and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability, and our long-term business prospects, could be adversely affected. Our ability to generate future revenues from Feraheme depends heavily on the ability of end-users to receive adequate reimbursement for the use of Feraheme in a timely manner. The commercial success of Feraheme substantially depends on the availability and extent of reimbursement for Feraheme from third-party payors, including governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private payors. Feraheme is purchased by hospitals, clinics, dialysis centers, physicians and other users, each of which generally relies on third-party payors to reimburse them or their patients for pharmaceutical products administered in the hospital, clinic, dialysis center and 25 Table of Contents physician-office settings. Public and private insurance coverage and reimbursement plans are therefore central to new product acceptance, with customers unlikely to use Feraheme if they do not receive adequate reimbursement in a timely manner. If Feraheme is not reimbursed at an adequate level, our ability to generate revenues from sales of Feraheme, our potential profitability and our future business prospects would be adversely affected. In the U.S. there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to reform the healthcare system in ways that could adversely impact the available reimbursement for, and therefore our ability to sell Feraheme profitably. In the U.S., both federal and state agencies continue to promote efforts to reduce healthcare costs. For example, one of the proposals included in recently proposed federal healthcare legislation would require pharmaceutical manufacturers to be responsible for higher Medicaid rebates owed to state Medicaid agencies. As a result of reimbursement and legislative proposals, and the trend toward managed health care in the U.S., third-party payors, including government and private payors, are also increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. These cost-containment methods may include, but are not limited to, using formularies, which are lists of approved or preferred drugs, requiring prior authorization or step therapy, which is a program to encourage using lower cost alternative treatments, basing payment amounts on the least costly alternative treatment, or refusing to provide coverage of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. Cost control initiatives could adversely affect the commercial opportunity or decrease the price of Feraheme and may impede the ability of potential Feraheme users to obtain reimbursement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and future business prospects. Medicare currently reimburses for physician-administered drugs in the hospital outpatient, dialysis center and physician clinic settings at a rate of 106% of the drug's average selling price, or ASP. If the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, or one of its local contractors, believe that Feraheme's ASP is too high, it may attempt to initiate one or more of the cost-containment methods discussed above at either the national or local level. In July 2008, Congress enacted the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, or MIPPA, which created a Medicare-expanded bundled payment system for the treatment of end stage renal disease, or ESRD, to be implemented by January 1, 2011. MIPPA requires CMS to move from a system in which it pays separately for physician-administered drugs for dialysis patients to a system in which all costs of providing care to dialysis patients are bundled together into a single capitated payment. The ESRD expanded bundle is to be phased in beginning on January 1, 2011, and the phase-in must be completed by January 1, 2014. In September 2009, in compliance with the statutory requirements of MIPPA, CMS proposed a new prospective payment system for dialysis services provided to Medicare beneficiaries who have ESRD. CMS has stated that it intends to issue a final rule on the prospective payment system later in 2010 in order to meet the legislative requirements of implementation by January 1, 2011. This bundled approach to reimbursement may lower utilization of physician-administered drugs in the ESRD market. In addition, the bundled approach to reimbursement in the dialysis setting may lower the amount of reimbursement available for Feraheme and consequently put downward pressure on the price we can charge for Feraheme. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to successfully market and sell Feraheme in the dialysis setting. While the MIPPA ESRD provisions apply only to Medicare, Medicare payment policy can also influence pricing and reimbursement in the non-Medicare markets, as private third-party payors and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting reimbursement methodologies, particularly in the ESRD setting. Any change in the Medicare reimbursement rate would, therefore, likely result in changes to payment rates from non-Medicare payors as well, further limiting our ability to successfully market and sell Feraheme. 26 Table of Contents To the extent we sell our products internationally, market acceptance may also depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within existing healthcare payment systems. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside of the U.S., the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payor of healthcare costs of patients and therefore enjoys significant market power. Some foreign countries also set prices for pharmaceutical products as part of the regulatory process, and we cannot guarantee that the prices set by such governments will be sufficient to generate substantial revenues in those countries. Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise with respect to Feraheme, resulting in recalls, restrictions in Feraheme's label, withdrawal of Feraheme from the market, or cause us to alter or terminate future Feraheme clinical development programs. Discovery of previously unknown problems with an approved product may result in recalls, restrictions on the product's permissible uses, or withdrawal of the product from the market. The data submitted to the FDA as part of our NDA was obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. New safety or drug interaction issues may arise as Feraheme is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients taking numerous other medicines and with additional underlying health problems. In addition, as we conduct additional clinical trials for Feraheme, new safety problems may be identified which could negatively impact both our ability to successfully complete these studies and the use and/or regulatory status of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in patients with CKD. These new safety or drug interaction issues may require us to provide additional warnings on the Feraheme label, directly alert healthcare providers of new safety information, narrow our approved indications, or alter or terminate future trials planned for additional uses of Feraheme, any of which could reduce the market acceptance of Feraheme. In addition, if significant safety or drug interaction issues arise, FDA approval for Feraheme could be withdrawn, and the FDA could require the recall of all existing Feraheme in the marketplace. The FDA also has the authority to require the recall of our products if there is contamination or other problems with manufacturing, transport or storage of the product. A government-mandated recall or a voluntary recall could divert managerial and financial resources, could be difficult and costly to correct, could result in the suspension of sales of Feraheme, and could have a severe adverse impact on our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. We may also be required to conduct certain post-approval clinical studies to assess known or suspected significant risks associated with Feraheme. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 expanded the FDA's authority. Under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act, the FDA may: (i) require manufacturers to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess known risks or signals of serious risks, or to identify unexpected serious risks; (ii) mandate labeling changes to a product based on new safety information; or (iii) require sponsors to implement a Risk Evaluation Management Strategy, or REMS, where necessary to assure safe use of the drug. If we are required to conduct post-approval clinical studies or implement a REMS, or if the FDA changes the label for Feraheme to include additional discussion of potential safety issues, such requirements or restrictions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues from sales of Feraheme, or require us to expend significant additional funds on clinical studies. We have limited experience independently commercializing a pharmaceutical product, and any failure on our part to effectively execute our Feraheme commercial plans would have a severe adverse impact on our business. Prior to our commercialization of Feraheme, we have never independently marketed or sold a drug product as we had relied on our corporate partners to market and sell our other approved products, Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK. We have established an internal sales and marketing infrastructure to market and sell Feraheme, and if we are unsuccessful in maintaining an effective sales and marketing function or experience a high level of turnover, then the commercialization of Feraheme could be 27 Table of Contents severely impaired. Any failure by us to successfully execute our commercialization plans for Feraheme could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects for our business. We have limited experience independently distributing a pharmaceutical product, and our Feraheme commercialization plans could suffer if we fail to effectively manage and maintain our supply chain and distribution network. We do not have significant experience in managing and maintaining a supply chain and distribution network, and we are placing substantial reliance on third-parties to perform product supply chain services for us. Such services include packaging, warehousing, inventory management, storage and distribution of Feraheme. We have contracted with Integrated Commercialization Services, Inc., or ICS, to be our exclusive third party logistics provider to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of Feraheme, including services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and customer service call center management. As a result, most of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by ICS. In addition, we have contracted with Catalent Pharma Solutions, LLC, or Catalent, to provide certain labeling and packaging services for final Feraheme drug product. If ICS or Catalent are unable to provide uninterrupted supply chain services or labeling and packaging services, respectively, we may incur substantial losses of sales to wholesalers or other purchasers of Feraheme. In addition, the packaging, storage and distribution of Feraheme requires significant coordination among our manufacturing, sales, marketing and finance organizations and multiple third parties including our third party logistics provider, packaging and labeling provider, distributors, and wholesalers. In most cases, we do not currently have back-up suppliers or service providers to perform these tasks. If any of these third-parties experience significant difficulties in their respective processes, fail to maintain compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, fail to meet expected deadlines or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damages at their facilities, our ability to deliver Feraheme to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. The loss of any of our third party providers, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternate distribution source for end users, could cause the distribution of Feraheme to be delayed or interrupted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may not be able to operate our manufacturing facility in compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other FDA regulations, which could result in a suspension of our ability to manufacture Feraheme, the loss of our Feraheme inventory, our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet demand, or other unanticipated compliance costs. Our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility is subject to current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA through periodic inspections to confirm such compliance. We must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that our manufacturing facility meets the FDA's regulatory requirements. Failure to maintain ongoing compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various regulatory agencies could result in the FDA's issuance of Warning Letters, fines, the withdrawal or recall of Feraheme from the marketplace, total or partial suspension of Feraheme production, the loss of our Feraheme inventory, suspension of the FDA's review of any future supplemental NDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution. If the FDA inspects our manufacturing facility and determines that we are not in compliance with cGMP regulations or we otherwise determine that we are not in compliance with these regulations, we could experience an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet demand or incur 28 Table of Contents unanticipated compliance expenditures, either of which could have an adverse impact on Feraheme sales, our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. We currently manufacture Feraheme at one manufacturing facility without a qualified second source manufacturer, and if we experience any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the manufacturing process, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet commercial demand or continue our Feraheme development efforts. We currently manufacture Feraheme for commercial use and for use in human clinical trials in our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. Although we are working to establish and qualify second source manufacturing facilities, we currently have only one facility at which we produce Feraheme. Our ability to manufacture Feraheme in sufficient quantities to meet commercial demand and our clinical development needs at acceptable costs is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facility. If there are any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the Feraheme manufacturing process, including quality control problems, we may experience manufacturing failures which could result in product defects or shipment delays, recall or withdrawal of products previously shipped for commercial or clinical purposes, inventory write-offs or the inability to meet commercial demand for Feraheme in a timely and cost-effective manner. Furthermore, if we fail to continue to attract and retain key members of our manufacturing or quality departments, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme in a timely manner, which could delay or impair our product sales and development efforts. If we cannot produce sufficient quantities of Feraheme at our manufacturing facility, we will need to rely on third party manufacturers, which may expose us to a number of risks. If we are unable to produce sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet demand or we experience any manufacturing difficulties at our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility, we will be required to enter into arrangements with third-party manufacturers. We are currently working to establish and qualify second source manufacturing facilities for Feraheme, however we may not be able to enter into agreements with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with cGMP, regulations and other regulatory requirements on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Even if we were to reach agreement, the transition of the manufacturing process to a third party could take a significant amount of time. Any prolonged interruption in our manufacturing operations could result in cancellations of orders or loss of product in the manufacturing process. Furthermore, use of second-source manufacturing facilities may increase the risk of certain problems, including cost overruns, process reproducibility, stability issues, the inability to deliver required quantities of product that conform to specifications in a timely manner, or the inability to manufacture Feraheme in accordance with cGMP. If we are unable to consistently manufacture our products on a timely basis because of these or other factors, we may not be able to meet anticipated commercial demand or our clinical development needs for Feraheme. As a result, we may lose sales and fail to generate increased revenues and our clinical development programs may be delayed, which could have an adverse impact on our potential profitability and future business prospects. Our inability to obtain raw materials and our reliance on sole source suppliers could adversely impact our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme, which would have a severe adverse impact on our business. We currently purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture Feraheme from third-party suppliers. We do not have any long-term supply contracts with these third parties. Some of these raw materials are procured from a single source with no qualified alternative supplier. We are in the process of identifying and qualifying additional third-party suppliers for these raw materials used to manufacture Feraheme. Third-party suppliers may cease to produce the raw materials used in Feraheme 29 Table of Contents or otherwise fail to supply these raw materials to us or fail to supply these raw materials to us in sufficient quantities for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following: •Unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials; •Labor disputes or shortages; •Manufacturing difficulties; •Regulatory requirements or action; •Adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier; or •Import or export problems. If any of our third-party suppliers cease to supply our raw materials for any reason, we will be unable to manufacture Feraheme or unable to manufacture Feraheme in sufficient quantities until we are able to qualify an alternative source, which would adversely affect our ability to satisfy commercial demand and our clinical development needs for Feraheme. The qualification of an alternative source may require repeated testing of the new materials and generate greater expenses to us if materials that we test do not perform in an acceptable manner. In addition, we sometimes obtain raw materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high quality standards imposed on our raw materials, we may not be able to obtain raw materials of the quality required to manufacture Feraheme from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain raw materials from an alternative source, if these raw materials are not available in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we would be unable to manufacture Feraheme, both for commercial sale and for use in our clinical trials, on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any such difficulty in obtaining raw materials would severely hinder our ability to manufacture Feraheme and would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues and to achieve profitability. Our operating results will likely fluctuate so you should not rely on the results of any single quarter to predict how we will perform over time. Our future operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, some of which we cannot control, including but not limited to: •The timing and magnitude of our recognition of revenues from sales of Feraheme, including the recognition of net product revenues associated with purchases made under our Launch Incentive Program, which were deferred as of September 30, 2009; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with the commercialization of Feraheme in the U.S., including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure and executing our promotional and marketing strategy; •Changes in buying patterns of our wholesalers or distributors; 30 Table of Contents •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with our development of additional indications for Feraheme and our development of Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with commercial-scale manufacturing of Feraheme, including costs associated with maintaining commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and second source suppliers; •Actual or anticipated difficulties, disruptions or delays associated with our manufacturing facility, packager, or supply chain and distribution network; •Changes in laws and regulations concerning reimbursement for Feraheme, from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; •The initiation of litigation to enforce or defend any of our assets; and •Implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or policies. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. Wholesaler and distributor buying patterns and other factors may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and these fluctuations may adversely affect our short-term results. Our results of operations, including, in particular, product sales revenues, may vary from period to period due to a variety of factors, including the buying patterns of our wholesalers and distributors, which vary from quarter to quarter. In the event wholesalers and distributors with whom we do business determine to limit their purchases of our products, sales of our products could be adversely affected. For example, in advance of an anticipated price increase, customers may order Feraheme in larger than normal quantities which could cause sales of Feraheme to be lower in subsequent quarters than they would have been otherwise. Further, any changes in purchasing patterns, inventory levels, increases in returns of Feraheme, delays in purchasing products or delays in payment for products by one of our distributors could also have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates our critical and other significant estimates and judgments, including among others, those related to revenue recognition and related sales allowances, investments, reserves for doubtful accounts, equity-based compensation, accrued expenses and income taxes. We base our estimates on market data, our observance of trends in our industry, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. If actual results differ from these estimates, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results and the performance of our stock. As part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks, fees and other discounts require subjective and complex judgments due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, to determine the required quantities of our products and the related manufacturing schedule, we also need to make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory 31 Table of Contents levels, current market trends, anticipated sales, and other factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amount of product need. For example, the level of our access to wholesaler and distributor inventory levels and sales data, which varies based on the wholesaler or distributor, affects our ability to accurately estimate certain reserves included in our financial statements. Any difference between our estimates and the actual amount of product demand could result in unmet demand or excess inventory, each of which would adversely impact our financial results and results of operation. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has ranged between $22.20 and $58.23 in the fifty-two week period through February 16, 2010. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Various factors and events, many of which are beyond our control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Factors which may affect the market price of our common stock include, among others: •Our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in the U.S.; •The timing and magnitude of Feraheme revenue and actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •Changes in or our failure to meet financial estimates published by securities analysts; •The availability of reimbursement coverage for Feraheme or changes in the reimbursement policies of governmental or private payors; •Public announcements of regulatory actions with respect to Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •Safety concerns related to Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •General market conditions; •Sales of large blocks of our common stock; •The status or results of clinical trials for Feraheme in indications other than CKD or products or product candidates of our competitors; •The acquisition or development of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; •Developments in patents or other proprietary rights by us or our competitors; •The initiation of litigation to enforce or defend any of our assets; and •Significant collaboration, acquisition, joint venture or similar agreements by us or our competitors. Thus, as a result of events both within and beyond our control, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or lose value rapidly. 32 Table of Contents If securities analysts downgrade our stock, cease coverage of us, or if our operating results do not meet analysts' forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us and our business. Currently, ten financial analysts publish reports about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. In addition, our future operating results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and our stock price could decline significantly if we fail to meet or exceed analysts' forecasts and expectations, especially with respect to the timing and magnitude of Feraheme revenues, including the recognition of net product revenues associated with purchases made under our Launch Incentive Program, which were initially deferred as of September 30, 2009. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or issue commentary or observations that are perceived by the market to be adverse to us or our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. We have a history of significant operating losses, and we may not be profitable in the future or if we attain profitability, it may not be sustainable. In the past, we have financed our operations primarily from the sale of our equity securities, cash generated by our investing activities, and payments from our strategic partners. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $281.7 million. Our losses are primarily the result of costs incurred in research and development, including costs associated with our Feraheme and other development programs, costs associated with establishing and maintaining our sales and marketing infrastructure, and other selling, general and administrative costs. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses to manufacture, market and sell Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic in CKD patients in the U.S. and to further develop Feraheme for additional indications and in additional countries outside of the U.S. As a result, we will need to generate sufficient revenues in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability. We anticipate that the vast majority of any revenue we generate in the near future will be from sales of Feraheme as an iron replacement therapeutic agent for CKD patients in the U.S. We have never independently marketed or sold any products, and we may not be successful in marketing or selling Feraheme. If we are not successful in marketing and selling Feraheme, if revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to achieve, maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, the market price of our common stock may decline. We may need additional capital to achieve our business objectives. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to successfully commercialize and develop Feraheme. As a result, we anticipate that our expenses will increase and that our cash-burn rate will continue to increase in the near- and long-term. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •The magnitude of Feraheme sales and the timing of our receipt of cash from such sales; •Costs associated with the U.S. commercialization of Feraheme, including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure and distribution network and executing our promotional and marketing strategy for Feraheme; •Costs associated with our development of additional indications for Feraheme; 33 Table of Contents •Costs associated with our pursuit of approval for Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent outside of the U.S.; •Costs associated with potential business development and in-licensing activities; •Costs associated with commercial-scale manufacturing of Feraheme, including costs associated with maintaining commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and second source suppliers; •Our ability to liquidate our investments in a timely manner and without significant loss; •The impact of the current volatility of the credit and capital markets upon the investments in our portfolio; •Our ability to establish additional development and marketing arrangements or to enter into alternative strategic relationships, if necessary; and •Our ability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us, if necessary. We estimate that our existing cash resources, combined with cash we currently expect to receive from sales of Feraheme and earnings on our investments, will be sufficient to finance our currently planned operations for at least the next twelve months. Thereafter, we may require additional funds or need to establish alternative strategic arrangements to continue our Feraheme commercialization efforts and development activities. We may seek needed funding through arrangements with collaborative partners or through public or private equity or debt financings. We may not be able to obtain financing or to secure alternative strategic arrangements on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. Any additional equity financings or alternative strategic arrangements would be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, the terms of any debt financing could greatly restrict our ability to raise additional capital and may provide rights and preferences to the investors in any such financing which are not available to current stockholders. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us when needed could force us to dramatically reduce our expenses and delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our activities and operations, including our commercialization and development activities, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future business prospects. We may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, or acquisition agreements that could disrupt our business, decrease our profitability, result in dilution to stockholders or cause us to incur debt or significant additional expense. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue collaboration and in-licensing opportunities, acquisitions of products or businesses, and/or strategic alliances that we believe would be complementary to our existing business. We have limited experience with respect to these business development activities. Any such strategic transactions by us could result in large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which would adversely impact our operating results. Management of a license arrangement, collaboration, or other strategic arrangement and/or integration of an acquired asset or company may also disrupt our ongoing business, require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business and our U.S. commercialization of Feraheme. We may not identify or complete any such transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated financial benefits of any such transaction. In addition, to finance any such strategic transactions, we may choose to issue shares of our common or preferred stock as consideration, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional 34 Table of Contents funds through public or private financings, and such additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements or acquisition agreements may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for these arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. The investment of our cash is subject to risks, which may cause losses or adversely affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2009, we had $50.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, $29.6 million in short-term investments, $49.0 million in long-term investments, and $0.8 million in Settlement Rights with respect to certain of our auction rate securities, or ARS. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been and may continue to be exacerbated by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults and the ensuing fallout. The recent disruptions in the credit and financial markets have negatively affected many industries, including those in which we invest, and we may realize losses in the fair value of certain of our investments or a complete loss of these investments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. At December 31, 2009, we held a total of $57.5 million in fair market value of ARS, reflecting an impairment of approximately $7.9 million compared to the par value of these securities of $65.4 million. Of the $7.9 million impairment, approximately $7.1 million is considered a temporary impairment and was reported as an unrealized loss at December 31, 2009. The remaining $0.8 million represents a trading loss which was recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. In February 2008, our ARS began to experience failed auctions and have continued to experience failed auctions. Since that time, the continued uncertainty in the credit markets has caused almost all additional auctions with respect to our ARS to fail and prevented us from liquidating certain of our holdings of ARS because the amount of these securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for these securities. These auctions may continue to fail indefinitely, and there could be a further decline in value of these securities or any other securities, which may ultimately be deemed to be other-than-temporary. In the future, should we determine that these declines in value of ARS are other-than-temporary, we would recognize the credit-related portion of the loss to our consolidated statement of operations, which could be material. In addition, failed auctions will adversely impact the liquidity of our investments. Based on our ability to access our cash and other short-term investments, our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate that the current lack of liquidity with respect to these securities will materially affect our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course in the short term, however, we are uncertain when the current liquidity issues relating to ARS will improve, if at all. The condition of the credit markets remains dynamic and unpredictable. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity with respect to our investments. In addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. Further, as part of our determination of the fair value of our investments, we consider credit ratings provided by independent investment rating agencies as of the valuation date. These ratings are subject to change. For example, in February 2009 three of our ARS with a total par value of $8.7 million and one of our ARS with a par value of $5.0 million were downgraded by one of the major credit rating agencies to A3 and Baa1, respectively, from their previous rating of Aaa. In contrast, the ARS having a par a value of $5.0 million was re-affirmed as AAA by a different major rating agency in January 2009. As the ratings of our ARS change we may be required to adjust our future valuation of our ARS which may adversely affect the value of these investments. These market 35 Table of Contents risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash position, liquidity and overall financial condition. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of the sale of shares of our common stock in our January 2010 public offering or other past or future transactions involving our common stock. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally three years. An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such "ownership change." It is possible that the issuance of shares of our common stock in our January 2010 public offering, together with certain other transactions involving our common stock within the testing period, will result in an ownership change. Even if the issuance of our common stock in our recent offering does not result in an ownership change, this offering would significantly increase the likelihood that there would be an ownership change in the future (which ownership change could occur as a result of transactions involving our common stock that are outside of our control, such as sales by existing stockholders). Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such net operating losses and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such net operating losses and tax credits. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. The current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Over the past two years, the U.S. and global economies have taken a dramatic downturn as a result of the volatility of the credit markets and related financial crisis, as well as a variety of other factors including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. The U.S. and certain foreign governments have taken unprecedented actions in an attempt to address and rectify these extreme market and economic conditions by providing liquidity and stability to the financial markets. If the actions taken by the U.S. and other governments are not successful, the continued economic decline may continue to negatively affect the liquidity of our investments, significantly impact our ability to raise capital, if needed, on a timely basis and on acceptable terms or at all, and cause our investments to substantially decline in value. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash position and the potential future prospects of our business. In addition, we rely and intend to continue to rely on third-parties, including clinical research organizations, third-party manufacturers, third-party logistics providers, packaging and labeling providers, wholesale distributors and certain other important vendors and consultants. As a result of the current volatile and unpredictable global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by our third-party contractors and suppliers. For example, as a result of the current economic climate, our distributors, customers or suppliers may experience difficulty in obtaining the liquidity necessary to purchase inventory or raw materials, may begin to maintain lower inventory levels or could become insolvent. If such third-parties are unable to adequately satisfy their contractual commitments to us in a timely manner, our business could be severely adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could be required to pay penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. As a condition of reimbursement by various federal and state healthcare programs, we are required to calculate and report certain pricing information to federal and state healthcare agencies. For example, we are required to provide ASP information to CMS on a quarterly basis in order to compute Medicare payment rates. Price reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and vary among products and programs. Our processes for estimating amounts due under these governmental pricing programs involve subjective decisions, and as a result, our price reporting calculations remain subject to the risk of errors and our methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under the Federal False Claims Act or other laws. If we become subject to investigations or other inquiries concerning our compliance with price reporting laws and regulations, we could be required to pay or be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to ongoing regulatory review of Feraheme, and if we fail to comply with such continuing regulations, we could be subject to penalties up to and including the suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of Feraheme. We are subject to ongoing FDA regulatory requirements and review pertaining to Feraheme's manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements or the later discovery of previously unknown problems with Feraheme or our manufacturing facility may result in restrictions on our ability to market and sell Feraheme, including its withdrawal from the market. We may also be subject to additional sanctions, including but not limited to: •FDA Warning Letters; •Civil or criminal penalties; •Suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •Temporary or permanent closing of our manufacturing facilities; •Requirements to communicate with physicians and other customers about concerns related to actual or potential safety, efficacy, or other issues involving Feraheme; •FDA-imposed label changes; •Implementation of an FDA-mandated REMS; •Restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing or sale of Feraheme; or •Recalls or a refusal by the FDA to consider or approve applications for additional indications. Any of these sanctions would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability. If we market or distribute our products in a manner that violates federal or state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, marketing disclosure laws or other federal or state laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to extensive federal and state healthcare regulation, including but not limited to, the federal false claims act and the federal anti-kickback statute. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be 37 Table of Contents presented for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, false or fraudulent claims for reimbursed drugs or services, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug, that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry, but we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal and state regulations and/or laws. If we or our representatives fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we market and sell Feraheme, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation, or other sanctions. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In recent years, several states and localities have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs or codes of conduct and/or file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered by additional states and by Congress. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and if we are found to not be in full compliance with these laws, we may face enforcement actions, fines and other penalties, and we could receive adverse publicity which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. If we fail to comply with any federal or state laws or regulations governing our industry, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize Feraheme, harm or prevent sales of Feraheme, or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing Feraheme, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our ability to grow revenues from sales of Feraheme will be limited if we do not obtain approval, or if we experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval to market Feraheme for additional indications in the U.S. We have commenced or are pursuing additional clinical trials and plan to seek regulatory approval to market Feraheme in indications other than CKD in the U.S. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in completing any clinical trials for additional indications in a timely manner or that, if completed, the results of such clinical trials will demonstrate Feraheme to be safe and effective in such uses and/or patient populations. The FDA imposes substantial requirements on the development and production of all drug products. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial marketing and sale of Feraheme for additional indications, we must demonstrate through extensive human clinical trials that Feraheme is safe and efficacious for these new uses and in these new patient populations. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires adherence to a wide range of regulatory requirements. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that the results of our clinical trials are insufficient for approval or that Feraheme is not effective or safe in indications other than CKD. Clinical and other data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. 38 Table of Contents The FDA could also determine that our clinical trials and/or our manufacturing processes were not properly designed, were not conducted in accordance with federal laws and regulations, or were otherwise not properly managed. In addition, under the FDA's current good clinical practices regulations, or cGCP, we are responsible for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA may conduct inspections of clinical investigator sites which are involved in our clinical development programs to ensure their compliance with cGCP regulations. If the FDA determines that we, our contract research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may disqualify certain data generated from those sites or require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain approval for Feraheme in indications other than CKD. Any such deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of our clinical development programs could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for Feraheme in indications other than CKD, or even prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for Feraheme for additional indications. This would, in turn, materially adversely impact our cash position, our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business. In addition, our ability to complete our planned clinical trials in a timely manner depends on a number of factors, including: •Our ability to reach agreement with the FDA on a trial design in a timely manner; •Our ability to identify and enter into contracts with prospective clinical sites in a timely manner; •The rate of patient enrollment; and •The ability of our contract research organizations to perform their oversight responsibilities and meet expected deadlines. Any failure by us to obtain approval for additional Feraheme indications in the U.S. in a timely manner may limit the commercial success of Feraheme and our ability to grow our revenues. Our ability to grow revenues from sales of Feraheme will be limited if we do not obtain approval, or if we experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval to market Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S. To the extent we wish to manufacture, market or sell Feraheme in foreign countries, we will need to comply with foreign regulatory requirements, which vary widely from country to country and may in some cases be more rigorous than requirements in the U.S. Foreign regulatory agents may require additional studies or studies designed with different clinical endpoints and/or comparators than those which we have already completed. The time required for approval may also be longer or shorter than in the U.S. In addition, in order to increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we may conduct trials in geographies outside the U.S. We have no experience conducting clinical trials outside the U.S., and, therefore, we will need to expend substantial time and resources to identify and familiarize ourselves with the regulatory requirements of such foreign countries. Any failure by us to obtain approval for Feraheme indications outside of the U.S. in a timely manner may limit the commercial success of Feraheme and our ability to grow our revenues. We rely on third parties in the conduct of our clinical trials, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, our development plans may be adversely affected. We rely on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials. We have and we plan to continue to contract with certain third-parties to provide certain services, including 39 Table of Contents site selection, enrollment, monitoring and data management services. Although we depend heavily on these parties, we do not control them and, therefore, we cannot be assured that these third-parties will adequately perform all of their contractual obligations to us. If our third-party service providers cannot adequately fulfill their obligations to us in a timely manner and on a satisfactory basis or if the quality and accuracy of our clinical trial data is compromised due to failure to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements or if such third-parties otherwise fail to adequately discharge their responsibilities or meet deadlines, our development plans may be delayed or terminated. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our ability to commercialize Feraheme, pursue opportunities and expand our business could be adversely affected. We have experienced significant growth, which has placed and may continue to place a substantial strain on our management, employees, facilities and resources. In anticipation of the approval and U.S. commercialization of Feraheme, we rapidly expanded our marketing, sales, manufacturing, regulatory, medical affairs, finance, development, and compliance capabilities. As our operations continue to expand, we will also need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. In addition, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, train and manage our expanding workforce, and maintain close coordination among our various departments. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any one of them could prevent us from successfully commercializing Feraheme, pursuing new business opportunities, or expanding our business, any one of which could adversely impact our future business prospects. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Because of the specialized nature of our business, our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our Chief Executive Officer and President, Brian J.G. Pereira, MD, our other executive officers and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified managerial, scientific, medical and sales personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with our senior executives but such agreements do not guarantee that these executives will remain employed by us for any significant period of time, or at all. If we are unable to retain these personnel, or we lose the services of our key personnel for any reason, our Feraheme development and commercialization efforts could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, our expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as commercial-scale manufacturing, marketing and sales, and late-stage development has required the addition of new management personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Our failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could impose significant limits on our business operations and hinder our ability to successfully and efficiently commercialize Feraheme and complete our development projects. Our success depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets in the conduct of our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications. The breadth of the claims obtained in our patents may not provide significant protection for our technology. The degree of protection afforded by patents for licensed technologies or for future discoveries may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. The patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. 40 Table of Contents Our U.S. Feraheme patents are currently scheduled to expire in 2020. These and any other patents issued to us may be contested or invalidated. Future patent interference proceedings involving our patents may harm our ability to commercialize Feraheme. Claims of infringement or violation of the proprietary rights of others may be asserted against us. If we are required to defend against such claims or to protect our own proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial costs to us and the distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could prevent us from marketing and selling Feraheme, limit our development and commercialization of Feraheme, or harm our competitive position and result in additional significant costs. In addition, any successful claim of infringement asserted against us could subject us to monetary damages or injunction preventing us from making or selling Feraheme. We also may be required to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. In countries where we do not have or have not applied for patents on Feraheme, we may be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where we have patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our proprietary technology. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements, however, may be breached. We may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches, and our trade secrets might otherwise become known or might be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that an equivalent product will not be marketed in competition with Feraheme, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. If we identify a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ or other regulatory authorities. 41 Table of Contents We are exposed to a number of different potential liability claims, and we may not be able to maintain or obtain sufficient insurance coverage to protect our cash and other assets. The administration of our products to humans, whether in clinical trials or after approved commercial usage, may expose us to liability claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials and commercial use, coverage is expensive and we may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Product liability claims, whether or not they have merit, could decrease demand for Feraheme, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our core business, require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages, all of which could prevent or interfere with the commercialization and development of Feraheme and adversely affect our business. Claims of this nature could also subject us to product recalls or harm our reputation, which could damage our position in the market. We could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, will distract our management and could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the market prices of securities of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have been extremely volatile and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Our shareholder rights plan, certain provisions in our charter and by-laws, certain contractual relationships and certain Delaware law provisions could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current members of our Board of Directors. In 2009 we adopted a shareholder rights plan, the provisions of which are intended to deter a hostile takeover by making any proposed hostile acquisition of us more expensive and less desirable to a potential acquirer by enabling our shareholders (other than the potential hostile acquiror) to purchase significant amounts of additional shares of our common stock at dilutive prices. The rights issued pursuant to our shareholder rights plan become exercisable generally upon the earlier of 10 days after a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after the announcement by a person or group of an intention to acquire 20% of our outstanding common stock via tender offer or similar transaction. The shareholder rights plan could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices. In addition, certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or takeover attempt of our company by a third-party as well as substantially impede the ability of our stockholders to benefit from a change of control or effect a change in management and board of directors. These provisions include: •The ability of our Board of Directors to increase or decrease the size of the Board without stockholder approval; •Advance notice requirements for the nomination of candidates for election to our Board of Directors and for proposals to be brought before our annual meeting of stockholders; 42 Table of Contents •The authority of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •Non-cumulative voting for directors; and •Limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prevents us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," which is defined generally as a person that acquires 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our stockholders. In addition to the above factors, an acquisition of our company could be made more difficult by employment agreements we have in place with our executive officers, as well as a company-wide change of control policy which provide for severance benefits as well as the full acceleration of vesting of any outstanding options or restricted stock units in the event of a change of control and subsequent termination of employment. Further, our Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan generally permits our Board of Directors to provide for the acceleration of vesting of options granted under that plan in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. Because we use certain hazardous materials in the production of our products, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the import, handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating the release or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, and such owner or operator may incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly the release or spill of, these substances could adversely affect the value of, and our ability to transfer or encumber, our real property. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. 