ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: The following is a summary description of some of the material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following statements should be carefully considered in evaluating us. We are solely dependent on the success of Feraheme. We currently derive and expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of Feraheme and, therefore, our ability to become profitable is solely dependent on our successful commercialization and development of Feraheme. We currently sell only one other product, GastroMARK, in the U.S. and in certain foreign jurisdictions through our marketing partners. However, sales of GastroMARK have been at approximately their current levels for many years, and we do not expect sales of GastroMARK to materially increase. Accordingly, if we are unable to generate sufficient revenues from sales of Feraheme, we may never be profitable, our financial condition will be materially adversely affected, and our business prospects will be limited. We intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to our Feraheme development efforts; however, we may not be successful in our efforts to expand the Feraheme package insert to include additional indications or obtain marketing approval for Feraheme in additional geographies. Although we are pursuing or have commenced additional clinical trials for Feraheme in indications other than chronic kidney disease, or CKD, we are not currently conducting or sponsoring research to expand our product development pipeline beyond Feraheme and therefore our revenues and operations will not be as diversified as some of our competitors which have multiple products or product candidates. Any failure by us to gain approval for Feraheme in additional indications, gain approval for Feraheme in new geographies, or acquire, develop and commercialize additional products and product candidates, could limit long-term shareholder value and adversely affect the future prospects of our business. We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. We have a history of significant operating losses, and we may not be profitable in the future, and if we do attain profitability, such profitability may not be sustainable. In the past, we have financed our operations primarily from the sale of our equity securities, cash generated by our investing activities, and payments from our strategic partners. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $362.8 million. Our losses were primarily the result of costs incurred in research and development, including costs associated with our Feraheme and other development programs, costs associated with maintaining our sales and marketing infrastructure, and other selling, general and administrative costs. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses to manufacture, market and sell Feraheme as an intravenous, or IV, iron replacement therapeutic in CKD patients in the U.S., to further develop Feraheme for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia, or IDA, in a broad range of patients and to obtain regulatory approval for Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S. As a result, we will need to generate sufficient revenues in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability. We anticipate that the vast majority of any revenue we generate in the near future will be from sales of Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent for CKD patients in the U.S. We have never independently marketed or sold any products prior to Feraheme, and we may not be successful in marketing or selling Feraheme. If we are not successful in marketing and selling Feraheme, if revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to achieve, maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, the market price of our common stock may decline. 22 Table of Contents Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise with respect to Feraheme, which could result in restrictions in Feraheme's label, recalls, withdrawal of Feraheme from the market, an adverse impact on Feraheme sales, or cause us to alter or terminate current or future Feraheme clinical development programs, any of which would adversely impact our future business prospects. Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise with respect to Feraheme, including an increase in the severity or frequency of known problems or the discovery of previously unknown problems, and may result in a variety of adverse regulatory actions. Under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, has broad authority to force drug manufacturers to take any number of actions if previously unknown safety or drug interaction problems arise, including, but not limited to: (i) requiring manufacturers to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess known risks or signals of serious risks, or to identify unexpected serious risks; (ii) mandating labeling changes to a product based on new safety information; or (iii) requiring manufacturers to implement a Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, where necessary to assure safe use of the drug. In addition, previously unknown safety or drug interaction problems could result in product recalls, restrictions on the product's permissible uses, or withdrawal of the product from the market. The data submitted to the FDA as part of our New Drug Application, or NDA, was obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. New safety or drug interaction issues may arise as Feraheme is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients taking numerous other medicines or by patients with additional underlying health problems. In addition, as we conduct other clinical trials for Feraheme, new safety problems may be identified which could negatively impact both our ability to successfully complete these studies and the use and/or regulatory status of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in patients with CKD. New safety or drug interaction issues may require us to, among other things, provide additional warnings and/or restrictions on the Feraheme package insert, including a boxed warning, directly alert healthcare providers of new safety information, narrow our approved indications, alter or terminate current or planned trials for additional uses of Feraheme, or even remove Feraheme from the market, any of which could have a significant adverse impact on potential sales of Feraheme or require us to expend significant additional funds. For example, in November 2010, following discussions with the FDA, we revised the Feraheme package insert to include bolded warnings and precautions that describe events that have been reported after Feraheme administration in the post-marketing environment, including life-threatening hypersensitivity reactions and clinically significant hypotension. In addition, the revised package insert reflects adverse reactions from post-marketing spontaneous reports and an increase in the recommended observation period following Feraheme administration from thirty to sixty minutes to observe patients for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity. Due to these changes to the Feraheme package insert, our ability to successfully compete in the IV iron market and potential sales of Feraheme and our future business prospects could be adversely impacted. In addition, as more data become available and an increased number of patients are treated with Feraheme, we may be required to make further changes to the Feraheme package insert, including the inclusion of a boxed warning, directly alert healthcare providers of new safety information, narrow our approved indications, alter or terminate current or planned trials for additional uses of Feraheme, or even remove Feraheme from the market. We depend, to a significant degree, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors for the use of Feraheme, and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement could adversely affect our Feraheme sales revenues and results of operations. In the U.S., our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme is dependent, in significant part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement to end-users from third-party payors for the use of Feraheme, including U.S. governmental payors, managed care organizations, private health insurers and 23 Table of Contents other third-party payors. Reimbursement by a third-party payor depends on a number of factors, including the third-party's determination that the product is competitively priced, safe and effective, appropriate for the specific patient, and cost-effective. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and have instituted and continue to institute cost containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the Health Care Reform Act, was enacted in March 2010 and includes certain cost containment measures including an increase to the minimum rebates for products covered by Medicaid programs and the extension of such rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations as well as the expansion of the 340(B) Public Health Services drug discount program. These and any future changes in government regulations or private third-party payors' reimbursement policies may reduce the extent of reimbursement for Feraheme and adversely affect our future operating results. In July 2010, as required by the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, or MIPPA, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, published a final rule establishing a new prospective payment system for dialysis services provided to Medicare beneficiaries who have end stage renal disease, or ESRD. MIPPA required CMS to move from a system in which it paid separately for physician-administered drugs for dialysis patients, such as Feraheme, to a system in which all costs of providing dialysis services are bundled together into a single prospective payment per treatment. The phase-in of the ESRD expanded prospective payment system began on January 1, 2011, and must be completed by January 1, 2014. This bundled approach to reimbursement has and will likely continue to alter the utilization of physician-administered drugs in the ESRD market as well as put downward pressure on the prices pharmaceutical companies can charge ESRD facilities for such drugs, particularly where alternative products are available. Feraheme is sold at a price that is substantially higher than alternative IV iron products in the dialysis setting, and as a result, the demand for Feraheme in the dialysis setting has begun to show a significant decline. While the prospective payment system provisions apply only to Medicare, Medicare is the predominant payor in the ESRD market, and Medicare payment policy, in time, can also influence pricing and reimbursement in the non-Medicare markets, as private third-party payors and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting reimbursement methodologies, particularly in the ESRD setting. Changes in the Medicare reimbursement rate may, therefore, result in changes to payment rates from non-Medicare payors as well, further limiting our ability to successfully market and sell Feraheme in the dialysis setting. To the extent we sell our products internationally, either directly or through our partners, market acceptance may also depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within existing healthcare payment systems. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside of the U.S., the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payor of healthcare costs of patients and therefore enjoys significant market power. Some foreign countries also set prices for pharmaceutical products as part of the regulatory process, and we cannot guarantee that the prices set by such governments will be sufficient to generate substantial revenues or allow sales of Feraheme to be profitable in those countries. In the U.S. there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state healthcare initiatives implemented to reform the healthcare system in ways that could adversely impact our business and our ability to sell Feraheme profitably. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the U.S. healthcare system. For example, the recently enacted Heath Care Reform Act contains a number of provisions that significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry and may negatively affect our potential Feraheme revenues. Among other things, the Health 24 Table of Contents Care Reform Act increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, extended the rebate provisions to Medicaid managed care organizations, and expanded the 340(b) Public Health Services drug pricing program. In addition, beginning in 2011, the Health Care Reform Act will impose non-deductible annual flat fees on all branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers based upon relative market share. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been added, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare providers and potentially incur additional costs. While we are continuing to evaluate this legislation and its potential impact on our business, this legislation may adversely affect the demand for Feraheme or cause us to incur additional expenses and therefore adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the state level. We cannot predict the impact that newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. We expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls and limit the growth of healthcare costs. These efforts could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting the prices that can be charged for Feraheme or the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or third-party payors, limiting the profitability of Feraheme, increasing our tax obligations, increasing our rebate liability or limiting the commercial opportunity for Feraheme. Feraheme may not be widely adopted by physicians, hospitals, patients, and healthcare payors, which would adversely impact our potential profitability and future business prospects. The commercial success of Feraheme depends upon its level of market adoption by physicians, hospitals, patients, and healthcare payors. If Feraheme does not achieve an adequate level of market adoption for any reason, our potential profitability and our future business prospects will be severely adversely impacted. Feraheme represents an alternative to other products and might not be adopted by the medical community if perceived to be no safer, less safe, no more effective, less effective, no more convenient, or less convenient than currently available products. The degree of market acceptance of Feraheme depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: •Our ability to demonstrate to the medical community, particularly hematologists, oncologists, hospitals, nephrologists, and others who may purchase or prescribe Feraheme, the clinical efficacy and safety of Feraheme as an alternative to current treatments for IDA in CKD patients; •The actual or perceived safety profile of Feraheme compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents, particularly if unanticipated adverse reactions to Feraheme result in further changes to or restrictions in the Feraheme package insert and/or otherwise create safety concerns among potential prescribers; •The ability of physicians and other providers to be adequately reimbursed for Feraheme from payors, including government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private payors, particularly in light of the recently enacted prospective payment system for dialysis patients with ESRD; •The relative price of Feraheme as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents; •The actual or perceived convenience and ease of administration of Feraheme as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents, particularly in light of the recent extension of the recommended observation period following Feraheme administration; and •The effectiveness of our sales and marketing organizations and our distribution network. We market and sell Feraheme for use in both dialysis and non-dialysis CKD patients. However, sales in the dialysis market have recently declined significantly due, in large part, to implementation of the prospective payment system for ESRD drugs like Feraheme. Accordingly, we expect sales of 25 Table of Contents Feraheme in the dialysis market to represent a very small portion of our total sales going forward. As a result, unless we capture a significant share of the non-dialysis CKD market, potential Feraheme sales, our potential profitability and our future business prospects will be materially adversely impacted. The key component of our commercialization strategy is to market and sell Feraheme for use in non-dialysis CKD patients. The current non-dialysis CKD market is comprised primarily of three types of facilities where a substantial number of CKD patients are treated: hematology and oncology clinics, hospitals, and nephrology clinics. IV iron therapeutic products are not currently widely used by certain physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients, particularly nephrologists, due to safety concerns and the inconvenience and often impracticability of administering IV iron therapeutic products in their offices. It is often difficult to change physicians' existing treatment paradigms even when supportive clinical data is available. In addition, our ability to effectively market and sell Feraheme in the hospital market depends in part upon our ability to achieve acceptance of Feraheme onto hospital formularies. Since many hospitals are members of group purchasing organizations, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective bargaining power of the group, our ability to attract customers in the hospital market also depends in part on our ability to effectively promote Feraheme within group purchasing organizations. If we are not successful in effectively promoting Feraheme to physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients or if we are not successful in securing and maintaining formulary coverage for Feraheme or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving wide-spread market acceptance of Feraheme in the non-dialysis CKD market and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability, and our long-term business prospects could be adversely affected. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries is intense. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are or are perceived to be more effective, safer, more convenient or have more favorable pricing, insurance coverage, coding and reimbursement than Feraheme, the commercial opportunity for Feraheme will be adversely impacted. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid technological change. We have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally, and many have greater financial and other resources, and more experienced trade, sales, and manufacturing organizations than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have name recognition, established positions in the market and long-standing relationships with customers and distributors. Our Feraheme commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop, commercialize or acquire or license technologies and drug products that are or are perceived to be safer, more effective, and/or easier to administer, or have more favorable pricing, insurance coverage, coding and reimbursement than Feraheme. Feraheme competes with several other IV iron replacement therapies in the U.S., including Venofer®, which is marketed in the U.S. by Fresenius Medical Care North America and American Regent Laboratories, Inc., or American Regent, a subsidiary of Luitpold Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ferrlecit®, which is marketed by Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC, INFeD®, an iron dextran product marketed by Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Dexferrum®, an iron dextran product marketed by American Regent. Feraheme may not receive the same level of market acceptance as these competing iron replacement therapy products, especially since these products have been on the market longer and are currently widely used by physicians. We may not be able to convince physicians and other healthcare providers or payors to switch from using the other marketed IV iron therapeutic products to Feraheme. The iron replacement therapy market is highly sensitive to several factors including, but not limited to, the actual and perceived safety profile of the available products, the ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage, coding and reimbursement, price competitiveness, and product characteristics such as convenience of administration and dosing regimens. To date, we have not completed any head-to-head clinical studies comparing Feraheme to other IV iron replacement products. 26 Table of Contents In addition to the foregoing currently marketed products, there are several iron replacement therapy products in various stages of clinical and commercial development in the U.S. and abroad, including Monofer® (iron isomaltoside 1000), an injectable iron preparation, which is currently approved in 16 countries for the treatment of IDA, Injectafer®, which is known as Ferinject® in Europe and is approved for marketing in 30 countries including Switzerland, South Korea, and certain countries within the European Union, or EU. In addition to competition from other marketed products and products known by us to be currently under development, the market opportunity for Feraheme could be negatively affected if generic IV iron replacement therapy products were to be approved and achieve commercial success. For example, in July 2009, Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. announced that it entered into a license agreement with GeneraMedix, Inc. for the exclusive U.S. marketing rights to a generic version of Ferrlecit®, which is indicated for the treatment of IDA in hemodialysis patients receiving supplemental erythropoiesis stimulating agent therapy. GeneraMedix, Inc. has filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application with the FDA, which is under expedited review. Companies that manufacture generic products typically invest far less resources in research and development than the manufacturer of a branded product and can therefore price their products significantly lower than those already on the market. It remains unclear if or when a generic product will enter this market. If any of these product candidates are approved for marketing and sale by the FDA, our efforts to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. and our ability to generate additional revenues and achieve profitability could be adversely affected. We have limited experience independently commercializing a pharmaceutical product, and any failure on our part to effectively execute our Feraheme commercial plans, particularly in light of our recent restructuring, would have a severe adverse impact on our business. Prior to our commercialization of Feraheme, we had never independently marketed or sold a drug product as we had relied on our corporate partners to market and sell our previously approved products. We have an internal sales and marketing infrastructure to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S., and if we are unsuccessful in maintaining an effective sales and marketing function or experience a high level of turnover, then the commercialization of Feraheme could be severely impaired. In October 2010, we decided to reduce our workforce by approximately 24% as part of an overall corporate workforce reduction. This workforce reduction, or any future reduction, could harm our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which could prevent us from successfully commercializing Feraheme, impair our ability to maintain sales levels and/or impair our ability to support potential sales growth and sales of Feraheme for any additional indications we may commercialize in the future. Our October 2010 workforce reduction could also result in reduced productivity and/or increased turnover among our personnel and could result in an adverse impact on our revenues and financial condition. Any failure by us to successfully execute our commercialization plans for Feraheme could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects for our business. Our October 2010 corporate restructuring may not result in anticipated savings, could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected and could disrupt our business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a result of our October 2010 workforce reduction, we recorded restructuring charges of approximately $2.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our restructuring charges were based on a number of assumptions. Actual results may differ and additional charges not currently expected may be incurred in connection with, or as a result of, these reductions. We may not fully realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits, savings and improvements in our cost structure from our restructuring efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, delays in the implementation of the restructuring plan or 27 Table of Contents unexpected costs. If we are unable to achieve the anticipated benefits, savings or improvements in our cost structure in the expected time frame or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our restructuring plan may also be disruptive to our operations. For example, cost saving measures may distract management from our core business, harm our reputation, or yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond planned reductions in workforce, increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations, reduced employee productivity and a deterioration of employee morale. Our workforce reduction could also harm our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel who are critical to our business. Any failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could prevent us from successfully commercializing and developing Feraheme, impair our ability to maintain sales levels and/or support potential sales growth. Moreover, although we believe it is necessary to reduce the cost of our operations to improve our performance, these initiatives may preclude us from making potentially significant expenditures that could improve our competitiveness over the longer term. We cannot guarantee that the cost reduction measures, or other measures we may take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings, or that any cost savings will be unaccompanied by these or other unintended consequences. We have limited experience independently distributing a pharmaceutical product, and our Feraheme commercialization plans could suffer if we fail to effectively manage and maintain our supply chain and distribution network. We do not have significant experience in managing and maintaining a supply chain and distribution network, and we are placing substantial reliance on third-parties to perform product supply chain services for us. Such services include packaging, warehousing, inventory management, storage and distribution of Feraheme. We have contracted with Integrated Commercialization Services, Inc., or ICS, to be our exclusive third-party logistics provider to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of Feraheme, including services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and customer service call center management. As a result, a significant amount of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by ICS. In addition, we have contracted with Catalent Pharma Solutions, LLC, or Catalent, to provide certain labeling and packaging services for final Feraheme drug product. If ICS or Catalent are unable to provide uninterrupted supply chain services or labeling and packaging services, respectively, we may incur substantial losses of sales to wholesalers or other purchasers of Feraheme. In addition, the packaging, storage and distribution of Feraheme requires significant coordination among our manufacturing, sales, marketing and finance organizations and multiple third parties including our third-party logistics provider, packaging and labeling provider, distributors, and wholesalers. In most cases, we do not currently have back-up suppliers or service providers to perform these tasks. If any of these third-parties experience significant difficulties in their respective processes, fail to maintain compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, fail to meet expected deadlines or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damages at their facilities, our ability to deliver Feraheme to meet commercial demand could be significantly impaired. The loss of any of our third-party providers, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternate distribution source for end-users in a timely manner, could cause the distribution of Feraheme to be delayed or interrupted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We may not be able to operate our manufacturing facility in compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other FDA regulations, which could result in a suspension of our ability to manufacture Feraheme, the loss of our Feraheme inventory, our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet demand, or other unanticipated compliance costs. Our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility is subject to current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA through periodic inspections to confirm such compliance. We must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that our manufacturing facility meets the FDA's regulatory requirements. Failure to maintain ongoing compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various regulatory agencies could result in, among other things, the FDA's issuance of Warning Letters, fines, the withdrawal or recall of Feraheme from the marketplace, total or partial suspension of Feraheme production, the loss of our Feraheme inventory, suspension of the FDA's review of any future supplemental New Drug Applications, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution. A government-mandated recall or a voluntary recall could divert managerial and financial resources, could be difficult and costly to correct, could result in the suspension of sales of Feraheme, and could have a severe adverse impact on our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. In addition, if the FDA inspects our manufacturing facility and determines that we are not in compliance with cGMP regulations or we otherwise determine that we are not in compliance with these regulations, we could experience an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet demand or incur unanticipated compliance expenditures, either of which could have an adverse impact on Feraheme sales, our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. We currently manufacture Feraheme at one manufacturing facility without a qualified alternative manufacturing source, and if we experience any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the manufacturing process, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet commercial demand or continue our Feraheme development efforts. We currently manufacture Feraheme for commercial use and for use in human clinical trials in our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. Although we are working to establish and qualify alternative manufacturing facilities, we currently have only one facility at which we produce Feraheme. Our ability to manufacture Feraheme in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs to meet our commercial demand and clinical development needs is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facility. If there are any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the Feraheme manufacturing process, including quality control problems, we may experience manufacturing failures which could result in product defects or shipment delays, recall or withdrawal of products previously shipped for commercial or clinical purposes, inventory write-offs or the inability to meet commercial demand for Feraheme in a timely and cost-effective manner. Furthermore, if we fail to continue to attract and retain key members of our manufacturing or quality departments, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme in a timely manner, which could delay or impair our product sales and development efforts. If we are unable to produce sufficient quantities of Feraheme to meet demand or we experience any manufacturing difficulties at our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility, we will be required to enter into arrangements with third-party manufacturers. We are currently working to establish and qualify alternative manufacturing facilities for Feraheme, however we may not be able to enter into agreements with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In the event that we do not receive the requisite regulatory approval to produce Feraheme at these third-party manufacturing facilities, we will need to enter into arrangements with alternative third-party manufacturers which we may not be able to do in a timely and cost-effective manner. Even if these 29 Table of Contents third-party manufacturers are qualified to be alternative manufacturing facilities for Feraheme and we were to reach agreement, the transition of the manufacturing process to a third-party could take a significant amount of time. Furthermore, use of second-source manufacturing facilities may increase the risk of certain problems, including cost overruns, process reproducibility, stability issues, the inability to deliver required quantities of product that conform to specifications in a timely manner, or the inability to manufacture Feraheme in accordance with cGMP. If we are unable to consistently manufacture Feraheme on a timely basis because of these or other factors, we may not be able to meet commercial demand or our clinical development needs for Feraheme. As a result, we may lose sales and fail to generate increased revenues and our clinical development programs may be delayed, which could have an adverse impact on our potential profitability and future business prospects. Our inability to obtain raw and other materials used in the manufacture of Feraheme could adversely impact our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme, which would have an adverse impact on our business. We currently purchase certain raw and other materials used to manufacture Feraheme from third-party suppliers, with whom we do not currently have any long-term supply contracts. These third-party suppliers may cease to produce the raw or other materials used in Feraheme or otherwise fail to supply these materials to us or fail to supply sufficient quantities of these materials to us in a timely manner for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following: •Unexpected demand for or shortage of raw or other materials; •Labor disputes or shortages; •Manufacturing difficulties; •Regulatory requirements or action; •Adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier; or •Import or export problems. If any of our third-party suppliers cease to supply certain raw or other materials to us for any reason we could be unable to manufacture Feraheme in sufficient quantities or on a timely basis until we are able to qualify an alternative source, which could adversely affect our ability to satisfy commercial demand and our clinical development needs for Feraheme. The qualification of an alternative source may require repeated testing of the new materials and generate greater expenses to us if materials that we test do not perform in an acceptable manner. In addition, we sometimes obtain raw or other materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high quality standards imposed on our raw or other materials, we may not be able to obtain these materials of the quality required to manufacture Feraheme from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain raw or other materials from an alternative source, if these raw or other materials are not available in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we would be unable to manufacture Feraheme, both for commercial sale and for use in our clinical trials, on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any such difficulty in obtaining raw or other materials could severely hinder our ability to manufacture Feraheme and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues and to achieve profitability. 30 Table of Contents Our ability to grow revenues from sales of Feraheme will be limited if we do not obtain approval, or if we experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval in the U.S. to market Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients. We are currently conducting clinical trials to support our global registrational program to assess Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients. Before obtaining regulatory approval in the U.S. for the commercial marketing and sale of Feraheme for the broad IDA indication, we must demonstrate through extensive human clinical trials that Feraheme is safe and efficacious for this new use and in this broader patient population. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires adherence to a wide range of regulatory requirements. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that the results of our clinical trials are insufficient for approval or that Feraheme is not effective or safe in indications other than CKD. Clinical and other data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in completing any clinical trials for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients in a timely manner or that, if completed, the results of such clinical trials will demonstrate Feraheme to be safe and effective in such use and/or patient population. The FDA could also determine that our clinical trials and/or our manufacturing processes were not properly designed, were not conducted in accordance with federal laws and regulations, or were otherwise not properly managed. In addition, under the FDA's current good clinical practices regulations, or cGCP, we are responsible for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA may conduct inspections of clinical investigator sites which are involved in our clinical development programs to ensure their compliance with cGCP regulations. If the FDA determines that we, our clinical research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may disqualify certain data generated from those sites or require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain approval for Feraheme in the broad IDA indication. Any such deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of our clinical development programs could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience significant delays or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for Feraheme for the IDA indication. This would, in turn, materially adversely impact our cash position, our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business. Our ability to complete our global registrational program for the broad IDA indication in a timely manner depends on a number of factors, including: •Our ability to identify and enter into contracts with prospective clinical sites in a timely manner; •The rate of patient enrollment; •The ability of our clinical research organizations to perform their oversight responsibilities and meet expected deadlines; •Any adverse impact of our October 2010 corporate restructuring on our ability to execute our clinical trials effectively; •Any adverse regulatory action which would preclude our ability to continue to conduct or complete our clinical trials, such as a clinical hold on our clinical trials or any further changes to the Feraheme package insert; and •The discovery of previously unknown safety or drug interaction problems with respect to Feraheme. 31 Table of Contents Any failure by us to obtain U.S. approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients in a timely manner may limit the commercial success of Feraheme and our ability to grow our revenues. Our ability to grow revenues from sales of Feraheme will be limited if we do not obtain approval, or if we experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval, to market Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S. In order for Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Takeda, 3SBio Inc., or us to market and sell Feraheme in any country outside of the U.S. for any indication, it will be necessary to obtain regulatory approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The requirements and timing for regulatory approval vary widely from country to country and may in some cases be different than or more rigorous than requirements in the U.S. For example, in January 2011, we received a Notice of Non-Compliance from the Therapeutic Products Directorate of Health Canada, or, Health Canada, which contained concerns focused mainly on chemistry, manufacturing, and control and preclinical toxicology issues. Health Canada requested, among other things, additional information on polyglucose sorbitol carboxymethylether, or PSC, a material used in the manufacture of Feraheme, including information related to pre-clinical safety of PSC and the manufacturing processes and controls related to the incorporation of PSC. We may not be able to adequately address all of the concerns raised in the Notice of Non-Compliance in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent approval of Feraheme in Canada. In addition, our June 2010 Marketing Authorization Application submitted to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for the approval of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients, is largely supported by data from the clinical trials we conducted to support our U.S. NDA filing for the approval of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in CKD patients. The EMA may require us to perform additional studies or provide additional data in order to obtain regulatory approval for any indication in the EU. In addition, any adverse regulatory action taken by the FDA with respect to Feraheme in the U.S. may affect the regulatory requirements or decisions made by certain foreign regulatory bodies with regard to the regulatory approval of Feraheme outside of the U.S. Any failure by us, Takeda or 3SBio Inc. to obtain approval for Feraheme in any countries outside of the U.S. in a timely manner may limit the commercial success of Feraheme and our ability to grow our revenues. We rely on third parties in the conduct of our business, including our clinical trials, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, our commercialization and development plans may be adversely affected. We rely and intend to continue to rely on third-parties, including clinical research organizations, third-party manufacturers, third-party logistics providers, packaging and labeling providers, wholesale distributors and certain other important vendors and consultants in the conduct of our business. As a result of the current volatile and unpredictable global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by our third-party contractors or suppliers. For example, as a result of the current economic climate, our distributors, customers or suppliers may experience difficulty in obtaining the liquidity necessary to purchase inventory or raw or other materials, may begin to maintain lower inventory levels or may become insolvent. If such third-parties are unable to adequately satisfy their contractual commitments to us in a timely manner, our business could be severely adversely affected. In addition, we have and we plan to continue to contract with certain third-parties to provide certain services, including site selection, enrollment, monitoring and data management services in connection with the conduct of our clinical trials. Although we depend heavily on these parties, we do not control them and, therefore, we cannot be assured that these third-parties will adequately perform all of their contractual obligations to us. If our third-party service providers cannot adequately fulfill their obligations to us in a timely manner and on a satisfactory basis or if the quality and accuracy of 32 Table of Contents our clinical trial data is compromised due to failure to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements or if such third-parties otherwise fail to adequately discharge their responsibilities or meet deadlines, our development plans both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S. may be delayed or terminated, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from Feraheme sales in additional indications and/or outside of the U.S. Further, in order to increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials and to support foreign regulatory approval of Feraheme, we are conducting trials in geographies outside the U.S. We have no experience conducting clinical trials outside the U.S., and, therefore, we are largely relying on third-parties such as clinical research organizations to manage, monitor and carry out these clinical trials outside of the U.S. We are substantially dependent upon our collaboration with Takeda to commercialize Feraheme in certain regions outside of the U.S., and if Takeda fails to successfully fulfill its obligations, or is ineffective in its commercialization of Feraheme in the Licensed Territory, or if our collaboration is terminated, our plans to commercialize Feraheme outside of the U.S. may be adversely affected. In March 2010, we entered into a License, Development and Commercialization Agreement, or the Takeda Agreement, with Takeda, under which we granted exclusive rights to Takeda to develop and commercialize Feraheme as a therapeutic agent in Europe, Asia-Pacific countries (excluding Japan, China and Taiwan), the Commonwealth of Independent States, Canada, India and Turkey, or collectively, the Licensed Territory. We are highly dependent on Takeda for certain regulatory filings outside of the U.S. with respect to Feraheme and the commercialization of Feraheme outside of the U.S. If Takeda fails to perform its obligations under the Takeda Agreement or is ineffective in its commercialization of Feraheme in the Licensed Territory or if we fail to effectively manage our relationship with Takeda, our ability to and the extent to which we commercialize and obtain certain regulatory approvals of Feraheme outside of the U.S. would be significantly harmed. Further, if we fail to fulfill certain of our obligations under the Takeda Agreement, Takeda has the right to assume the responsibility of clinical development of Feraheme in the Licensed Territory, which would increase the cost of and delay the Feraheme development program outside of the U.S. In addition, Takeda has the right to terminate the agreement under certain conditions. If Takeda terminates the Takeda Agreement, we would be required to either enter into alternative arrangements with third parties to commercialize Feraheme in the Licensed Territory, which we may be unable to do, or to increase our internal infrastructure, both of which would likely result in significant additional expense and delay or termination of our Feraheme clinical development programs outside of the U.S. Our operating results will likely fluctuate so you should not rely on the results of any single quarter to predict how we will perform over time. Our future operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, some of which we cannot control, including but not limited to: •The magnitude of Feraheme sales; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with the commercialization of Feraheme in the U.S., including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure and executing our promotional and marketing strategy; •Changes in buying patterns and inventory levels of our wholesalers or distributors; •Any adverse impact on our financial results stemming from our October 2010 corporate restructuring; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with our ongoing and planned clinical studies of Feraheme in connection with our pursuit of additional indications and our development of Feraheme in countries outside of the U.S; 33 Table of Contents •The timing and magnitude of milestone payments we may receive under the Takeda Agreement; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with commercial-scale manufacturing of Feraheme, including costs of raw and other materials and costs associated with maintaining commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and alternative suppliers; •Changes in laws and regulations affecting Feraheme from federal and state legislative and regulatory authorities, government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; •The initiation or outcome of any material litigation to which we are a party; and •Implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or policies. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. Wholesaler and distributor buying patterns and other factors may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and these fluctuations may adversely affect our short-term results. Our results of operations, including, in particular, product sales revenues, may vary from period to period due to a variety of factors, including the buying patterns of our wholesalers and distributors, which vary from quarter to quarter. In the event wholesalers and distributors with whom we do business determine to limit their purchases of our products, sales of our products could be adversely affected. For example, in advance of an anticipated price increase or a reduction in expected rebates or discounts, customers may order Feraheme in larger than normal quantities which could cause sales of Feraheme to be lower in subsequent quarters than they would have been otherwise. Further, any changes in purchasing patterns, inventory levels, increases in returns of Feraheme, delays in purchasing products or delays in payment for products by one of our distributors could also have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates our critical and other significant estimates and judgments, including among others, those associated with revenue recognition related to collaboration agreements and product sales, product sales allowances and accruals, our assessment of investments for potential other-than-temporary impairment and our determination of the value of our investments, reserves for doubtful accounts, accrued expenses, reserves for legal matters, income taxes and equity-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on market data, our observance of trends in our industry, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. If actual results differ from these estimates, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results and the performance of our stock. In addition, we may fail to realize our publicly disclosed financial guidance or other expectations about our business, which could cause our stock to decline in value. As part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks, fees and other discounts require subjective and complex judgments due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and 34 Table of Contents cash flows. In addition, to determine the required quantities of our products and the related manufacturing schedule, we also need to make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends, anticipated sales, and other factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amount of product need. For example, the level of our access to wholesaler and distributor inventory levels and sales data, which varies based on the wholesaler or distributor, affects our ability to accurately estimate certain reserves included in our financial statements. Any difference between our estimates and the actual amount of product demand could result in unmet demand or excess inventory, each of which would adversely impact our financial results and results of operations. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has ranged between $13.75 and $40.00 in the fifty-two week period through February 16, 2011. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Various factors and events, many of which are beyond our control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Factors which may affect the market price of our common stock include, among others: •Our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in the U.S.; •The timing and magnitude of Feraheme revenue and actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •Changes in or our failure to meet financial estimates published by securities analysts or our own publicly disclosed financial guidance; •The availability of reimbursement coverage for Feraheme or changes in the reimbursement policies of governmental or private payors; •Public announcements of U.S. or foreign regulatory actions with respect to Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •Actual or perceived safety concerns related to Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors, including any actions taken by regulatory authorities in connection with such concerns; •General market conditions; •Sales of large blocks of our common stock; •The status or results of clinical trials for Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •The acquisition or development of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; •Developments in patents or other proprietary rights by us or our competitors; •The initiation or outcome of any material litigation to which we are a party; and •Significant collaboration, acquisition, joint venture or similar agreements by us or our competitors. 35 Table of Contents Thus, as a result of events both within and beyond our control, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or lose value rapidly. If securities analysts downgrade our stock, cease coverage of us, or if our operating results do not meet our own publicly disclosed financial guidance or analysts' forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us and our business. Currently, thirteen financial analysts publish reports about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. In addition, our future operating results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and our stock price could decline significantly if we fail to meet or exceed our own publicly disclosed financial guidance or analysts' forecasts and expectations. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or issue commentary or observations that are perceived by the market to be adverse to us or our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could also cause our stock price to decline. We may need additional capital to achieve our business objectives. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to successfully commercialize and develop Feraheme. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •The magnitude of Feraheme sales; •Our ability to achieve the various milestones and receive the associated payments under the Takeda Agreement; •Costs associated with the U.S. commercialization of Feraheme, including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure and distribution network, costs associated with executing our promotional and marketing strategy for Feraheme, and costs associated with conducting post-marketing clinical studies; •Costs associated with our development of the broad IDA indication for Feraheme in the U.S.; •Costs associated with our pursuit of approval for Feraheme outside of the U.S.; •Costs associated with commercial-scale manufacturing of Feraheme, including costs of raw and other materials and costs associated with maintaining commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and alternative suppliers; •The outcome of any material litigation to which we are or may become a party; •Our ability to liquidate our investments in auction rate securities, or ARS, in a timely manner and without significant loss; •The impact of the current state of the credit and capital markets upon the investments in our portfolio; •Our ability to maintain successful collaborations with our partners and/or to enter into additional alternative strategic relationships, if necessary; and •Our ability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us, if necessary. 36 Table of Contents We estimate that our cash resources as of December 31, 2010, combined with cash we currently expect to receive from sales of Feraheme and from earnings on our investments, will be sufficient to finance our currently planned operations for at least the next twelve months. Thereafter, we may require additional funds or need to establish additional alternative strategic arrangements to execute our business plans. We may seek needed funding through additional arrangements with collaborative partners or through public or private equity or debt financings. We may not be able to obtain financing or to secure alternative strategic arrangements on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. Any additional equity financings or alternative strategic arrangements would be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, the terms of any debt financing could greatly restrict our ability to raise additional capital and may provide rights and preferences to the investors in any such financing which are not available to current stockholders. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us when needed could force us to dramatically reduce our expenses and delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our activities and operations, including our commercialization and development activities, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future business prospects. The investment of our cash is subject to risks, which may cause losses or adversely affect the liquidity of these investments and our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2010, we had $112.6 million in cash and cash equivalents, $147.6 million in short-term investments, and $33.6 million in long-term investments. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been and may continue to be exacerbated by the U.S. and global financial crisis which has been occurring over the past several years. The ongoing disruptions in the credit and financial markets have negatively affected many industries, including those in which we invest, and we may realize losses in the fair value of certain of our investments or a complete loss of these investments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2010, we held a total of $33.6 million in fair market value of ARS reflecting a decline in value of approximately $6.0 million compared to the par value of these securities of $39.6 million. In February 2008, our ARS began to experience failed auctions and have continued to experience failed auctions. Since that time, the continued uncertainty in the credit markets has caused almost all additional auctions with respect to our ARS to fail and prevented us from liquidating certain of our holdings of ARS because the amount of these securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for these securities. These auctions may continue to fail indefinitely, and there could be a further decline in value of these securities or any other securities, which may ultimately be deemed to be other-than-temporary. In the future, should we determine that these declines in value of ARS are other-than-temporary, we will recognize the credit-related portion of the loss to our consolidated statement of operations, which could be material. In addition, failed auctions will adversely impact the liquidity of our investments. The condition of the credit markets remains dynamic and unpredictable. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity with respect to our investments. In addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. Further, as part of our determination of the fair value of our investments, we consider credit ratings provided by independent investment rating agencies as of the valuation date. These ratings are subject to change. As the ratings of our ARS change we may be required to adjust our future valuation of our ARS which may adversely affect the value of these investments. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash position, liquidity and overall financial condition. 37 Table of Contents We are subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements that could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of Federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the NASDAQ Global Market, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. For example, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas, such as "say on pay" and proxy access. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in our expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of the sale of shares of our common stock in our January 2010 public offering or other past or future transactions involving our common stock. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally three years. An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such "ownership change." It is possible that the issuance of shares of our common stock in our January 2010 public offering, together with certain other transactions involving our common stock within the testing period, will result in an ownership change. Even if the issuance of our common stock in our recent offering does not result in an ownership change, this offering would significantly increase the likelihood that there would be an ownership change in the future (which ownership change could occur as a result of transactions involving our common stock that are outside of our control, such as sales by existing stockholders). Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we have estimated would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such net operating losses and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such net operating losses and tax credits and potentially adversely affecting our financial position. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could pay penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a condition of reimbursement by various federal and state healthcare programs for Feraheme, we are required to calculate and report certain pricing information to Federal and state healthcare agencies. For example, we are required to provide average selling price information to CMS on a quarterly basis in order to compute Medicare payment rates. Price reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and vary among products and programs. Our processes for estimating amounts due under these governmental pricing programs involve subjective decisions, and as a result, our price reporting calculations remain subject to the risk of errors and our methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under the Federal False Claims Act or other laws. In addition, the Health 38 Table of Contents Care Reform Act modified the rules related to certain price reports and expanded the scope of pharmaceutical product sales to which Medicaid rebates apply, among other things. Presently, uncertainty exists as many of the specific determinations necessary to implement this new legislation have yet to be decided and communicated to industry participants. This uncertainty in the interpretation of the legislation increases the chances of an error in price reporting, which could in turn lead to a legal challenge or investigation. If we become subject to investigations or other inquiries concerning our compliance with price reporting laws and regulations, we could be required to pay or be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight of Feraheme, and any failure by us to maintain compliance with applicable regulations may result in penalties up to and including the suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of Feraheme, significant additional expense and may limit our ability to commercialize Feraheme. We are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and review both in the U.S. and, in some cases, foreign jurisdictions, pertaining to Feraheme's manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, marketing, promotion and record keeping. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements or the later discovery of previously unknown problems with Feraheme or our manufacturing facility may result in restrictions on our ability to manufacture, market or sell Feraheme, including its withdrawal from the market. Any such restrictions could result in a decrease in Feraheme sales, damage to our reputation or the initiation of lawsuits against us. We may also be subject to additional sanctions, including but not limited to: •Warning Letters; •Civil or criminal penalties; •Suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •Temporary or permanent closing of our manufacturing facilities; •Requirements to communicate with physicians and other customers about concerns related to actual or potential safety, efficacy, or other issues involving Feraheme; •Changes to our package insert; •Implementation of an FDA-mandated REMS; •Restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing or sale of Feraheme; or •Recalls or a refusal by regulators to consider or approve applications for additional indications. For example, in October 2010, we received a Warning Letter from the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications alleging violations of certain FDA regulations with respect to the GastroMARK and Feraheme pages of our corporate web site. Although we have addressed the concerns raised in the Warning Letter, there is no guarantee that we will not receive additional warning letters in the future. Any of the above sanctions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and cause us to incur significant additional expenses. If we market or distribute our products in a manner that violates federal, state or foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws, marketing disclosure laws or other federal, state or foreign laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to extensive additional Federal, state and foreign healthcare regulation, which includes but is not limited to, the Federal False Claims Act and the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly 39 Table of Contents presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, false or fraudulent claims for reimbursed drugs or services, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug, that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry, but we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations. If we or our representatives fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we market and sell Feraheme, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation, or other sanctions. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs or codes of conduct and/or to file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered by additional states and by Congress. In addition, as part of the Health Care Reform Act, the federal government has enacted the Physician Sunshine provisions. Beginning in 2013, manufacturers of drugs will be required to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Compliance with these laws is difficult, time consuming and costly, and if we are found to not be in full compliance with these laws, we may face enforcement actions, fines and other penalties, and we could receive adverse publicity which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with any Federal, state or foreign laws or regulations governing our industry, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize Feraheme, harm or prevent sales of Feraheme, or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing Feraheme, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Because of the specialized nature of our business, our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified sales, manufacturing, managerial, scientific, and medical personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with our senior executives but such agreements do not guarantee that these executives will remain employed by us for any significant period of time, or at all. In addition, in October 2010, as part of an overall corporate workforce reduction, we will reduce our workforce by approximately 24%. This workforce reduction, or any future reduction, could harm our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel. If we are unable to attract such personnel, or we lose the services of our key personnel for any reason, our Feraheme development and commercialization efforts could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, our expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as commercial-scale manufacturing, marketing and sales, and late-stage development has required the addition of new management personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary 40 Table of Contents for the development of our business. Our failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could impose significant limits on our business operations and hinder our ability to successfully and efficiently commercialize Feraheme and complete our development projects. Our success depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets in the conduct of our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications. The breadth of the claims obtained in our patents may not provide significant protection for our technology. The degree of protection afforded by patents for licensed technologies or for future discoveries may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. The patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. Our U.S. Feraheme patents are currently scheduled to expire in 2020. These and any other patents issued to us may be contested or invalidated. For example, in July 2010, Sandoz GmbH, or Sandoz, filed an opposition to one of our patents which covers Feraheme in the EU with the European Patent Office, or EPO. Although we believe that the subject patent is valid, there is a possibility that the EPO could invalidate or require us to narrow the claims contained in our patent. We believe the Sandoz patent opposition is without merit and intend to defend against the opposition vigorously. This or future patent interference proceedings involving our patents may result in substantial costs to us, distract our management, prevent us from marketing and selling Feraheme, limit our development and commercialization of Feraheme or otherwise harm our ability to commercialize Feraheme. In addition, claims of infringement or violation of the proprietary rights of others may be asserted against us. If we are required to defend against such claims or to protect our own proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial costs to us and the distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could prevent us from marketing and selling Feraheme, limit our development and commercialization of Feraheme, or harm our competitive position and result in additional significant costs. In addition, any successful claim of infringement asserted against us could subject us to monetary damages or injunction, which could prevent us from making or selling Feraheme. We also may be required to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. In countries where we do not have or have not applied for patents for Feraheme, we may be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where we have patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our proprietary technology. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements, however, may be breached. We may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches, and our trade secrets might otherwise become known or might be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that an equivalent product will not be marketed in competition with Feraheme, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. 41 Table of Contents If we identify a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, the NASDAQ Global Market or other regulatory authorities. An adverse determination, if any, in the securities class action lawsuit against us or any other future lawsuits in which we are a defendant, could have a material adverse affect on us. A purported class action complaint was originally filed on March 18, 2010 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, entitled Silverstrand Investments v. AMAG Pharm., Inc., et. al., Civil Action No. 1:10-CV-10470-NMG, and was amended on September 15, 2010. The amended complaint alleges that we and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our Board of Directors, or Board, and certain underwriters in our January 2010 offering of common stock violated certain federal securities laws, specifically Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and that our President and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer violated Section 15 of such Act, respectively, by making certain alleged false and misleading statements and omissions in a registration statement filed in January 2010. The plaintiff seeks unspecified damages on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our common stock pursuant to our common stock offering on or about January 21, 2010. The Court has not set a trial date for this matter. We believe that the allegations contained in the complaint are without merit and intend to defend the case vigorously. However, whether or not the plaintiff's claims are successful, this type of litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect the operation of our business. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could adversely affect our operations. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Any future litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. We maintain liability insurance, however, if any costs or expenses associated with this or any other litigation exceed our insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these costs and expenses directly, which could be substantial. 42 Table of Contents Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products. The administration of our products to humans, whether in clinical trials or after approved commercial usage, may expose us to liability claims, whether or not our products are actually at fault for causing an injury. As Feraheme is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients taking numerous other medicines or by patients with additional underlying health problems, the likelihood of adverse drug reactions or unintended side effects, including death, may increase. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials and commercial use, coverage is expensive, and we may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Product liability claims, whether or not they have merit, could decrease demand for Feraheme, subject us to product recalls or harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs, and divert management's time and attention. Our shareholder rights plan, certain provisions in our charter and by-laws, certain contractual relationships and certain Delaware law provisions could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current members of our Board of Directors. In 2009 we adopted a shareholder rights plan, the provisions of which are intended to deter a hostile takeover by making any proposed hostile acquisition of us more expensive and less desirable to a potential acquirer by enabling our shareholders (other than the potential hostile acquiror) to purchase significant amounts of additional shares of our common stock at dilutive prices. The rights issued pursuant to our shareholder rights plan become exercisable generally upon the earlier of 10 days after a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after the announcement by a person or group of an intention to acquire 20% of our outstanding common stock via tender offer or similar transaction. The shareholder rights plan could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices. In addition, certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or takeover attempt of our company by a third-party as well as substantially impede the ability of our stockholders to benefit from a change of control or effect a change in management and our Board. These provisions include: •The ability of our Board to increase or decrease the size of the Board without stockholder approval; •Advance notice requirements for the nomination of candidates for election to our Board and for proposals to be brought before our annual meeting of stockholders; •The authority of our Board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •Non-cumulative voting for directors; and •Limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prevents us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," which is defined generally as a person that acquires 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the 43 Table of Contents manner prescribed in Section 203. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our stockholders. In addition to the above factors, an acquisition of our company could be made more difficult by employment agreements we have in place with our executive officers, as well as a company-wide change of control policy which provide for severance benefits as well as the full acceleration of vesting of any outstanding options or restricted stock units in the event of a change of control and subsequent termination of employment. Further, our Second Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan generally permits our Board to provide for the acceleration of vesting of options granted under that plan in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. Because we use certain hazardous materials in the production of our products, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the import, handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating the release or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, and such owner or operator may incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly the release or spill of, these substances could adversely affect the value of, and our ability to transfer or encumber, our real property. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. 