ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: The following is a summary description of some of the material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following statements should be carefully considered in evaluating us. We are highly dependent on the success of our key product candidate, ferumoxytol. We are currently investing most of our efforts and financial resources in the development and commercialization of ferumoxytol. Any failure by us to obtain marketing approval for and successfully commercialize ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and our ability to achieve profitability. If we are unable to generate revenues from ferumoxytol, our ability to create long-term shareholder value and our business prospects will be very limited unless we are able to successfully develop and commercialize other products. We have two products, Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK, currently approved for marketing and sale in the U.S. and in certain foreign jurisdictions. However, sales of Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK by our marketing partners have been at relatively low levels, and we expect sales of Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK will not substantially increase from their current levels overall. We have also received an approvable letter from the FDA with respect to Combidex, but approval of Combidex remains highly uncertain and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions imposed by the FDA. Although we have dedicated significant resources to development efforts in the past, we may not be successful in developing new applications for our existing technology or in expanding the potential indications for our current products or product candidates. Although we intend to initiate additional clinical trials in an effort to expand the potential indications for ferumoxytol, we are not currently conducting or sponsoring research to expand our product development pipeline beyond ferumoxytol. Any failure by us to develop and commercialize additional products and product candidates or additional indications for ferumoxytol will place greater pressure on the performance of our existing products and product candidates and will materially adversely affect our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business. We may never receive regulatory approval for the marketing and commercial sale of ferumoxytol or may experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain approval for ferumoxytol. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements on the development, production and commercial introduction of all drug products. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial marketing and sale of ferumoxytol, we must demonstrate through extensive pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials that ferumoxytol is safe and efficacious. We have completed and publicly announced the results of all of our planned Phase III studies of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic in patients with CKD and submitted an NDA to the FDA requesting approval to market and sell ferumoxytol in the U.S. However, even though the FDA has accepted our ferumoxytol NDA for filing, it may not be approved or may not be approved in a timely manner. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that our data is insufficient for approval. Clinical data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. The FDA may review our data and determine that ferumoxytol is not efficacious and/or does not have an acceptable safety profile, which could result in the FDA issuing a letter stating that ferumoxytol is not approvable or is approvable only if certain additional conditions are met. The FDA could also determine that our pre-clinical studies, our clinical trials and/or our manufacturing processes were not properly designed, were not conducted in accordance with federal 21 laws, or were otherwise not properly managed. For example, the FDA guidelines generally suggest that sponsors conduct two adequate and well-controlled studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate such as ferumoxytol in support of FDA approval. FDA interpretation of the statutory requirements also states that a single study may be sufficient to support approval if the FDA determines that based on relevant science and other confirmatory evidence from pertinent, adequate and well-controlled studies, there is strong evidence to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate to support using a single adequate and well-controlled study to demonstrate safety and efficacy and support approval. We have chosen to conduct only a single Phase III study for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic in the hemodialysis dependent CKD patient population along with two additional Phase III studies of ferumoxytol in nondialysis dependent CKD patients and one additional safety study in patients with all stages of CKD. If the FDA determines that the results of our single study in hemodialysis dependent CKD patients, together with other confirmatory evidence we provide, is not sufficiently strong to demonstrate ferumoxytol's safety and efficacy in hemodialysis dependent CKD patients, then ferumoxytol may not be approved by the FDA for our proposed indication, may be approved for a more limited indication, or the FDA may require us to conduct additional studies before approving ferumoxytol for use in hemodialysis dependent CKD patients. In addition, in discussions with us, the FDA recommended that we test ferumoxytol at doses lower than 510 milligams. We chose to conduct our studies of ferumoxytol using primarily a 510 milligram dose. If the FDA determines that the data we submitted with our NDA does not support the safety of a 510 milligram dose, it could decide not to approve ferumoxytol at this dosing regimen or require additional studies prior to approval. Any such deficiency in the design or oversight of our Phase III clinical studies that results in the FDA requiring us to conduct additional ferumoxytol studies would cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience significant delays in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for ferumoxytol, or even prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for ferumoxytol. The requirement to conduct additional trials or any other delay in obtaining regulatory approval would delay the commercialization of ferumoxytol and associated revenues, and would consume extensive amounts of our resources, both financial and managerial. This would, in turn, materially adversely impact our cash position, our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business. Ferumoxytol's approved indication may be more restrictive than proposed in our application to the FDA, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from sales of ferumoxytol. Any regulatory approvals granted by the FDA may entail limitations on the approved indications of ferumoxytol. As part of our NDA, we have requested approval to market ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapy for iron deficiency anemia in all CKD patients, whether or not on dialysis. The FDA could determine that the data from our clinical trials is adequate to show safety and efficacy in only a portion of the CKD population, in which case the FDA might approve ferumoxytol only for marketing in a subset of the CKD population. Even if approved, the FDA may impose labeling requirements that adversely impact our ability to successfully market ferumoxytol. For example, if the FDA determines that our data demonstrates significant safety concerns, ferumoxytol's label could include a "black box" warning indicating significant concerns of AEs. Any such labeling requirements or limitations could significantly impair our ability to generate future revenues from product sales of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic and adversely impact our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects for our business. Ferumoxytol, even if approved, will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review, and if we fail to comply with such continuing regulations we could be subject to penalties up to and including the suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of ferumoxytol. Even if approved, ferumoxytol will remain subject to FDA regulatory requirements and review pertaining to its manufacture, labeling, packaging, AE reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and 22 record keeping. If we fail to comply with such regulatory requirements, we could be subject to sanctions, including but not limited to warning letters, civil or criminal penalties, injunctions, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, temporary or permanent closing of our manufacturing facilities, restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing or sale of ferumoxytol, recalls or a refusal by the FDA to consider or approve applications for additional indications. Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise for ferumoxytol even after FDA approval, resulting in recalls, restrictions in ferumoxytol's label, or withdrawal of ferumoxytol from the market. Discovery of previously unknown problems with an approved product may result in recalls, restrictions on the product's permissible uses, or withdrawal of the product from the market. The data submitted to the FDA as part of our NDA was obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. If approved, new safety or drug interaction issues may arise as ferumoxytol is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients taking numerous other medicines and with additional underlying health problems. These new safety or drug interaction issues may require us to provide additional warnings on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of ferumoxytol. In addition, if significant safety or drug interaction issues arise, FDA approval for ferumoxytol could be withdrawn and the FDA could require the recall of all existing ferumoxytol in the marketplace. The FDA also has the authority to require the recall of our products if there is contamination or other problems with manufacturing, transport or storage of the product. A government-mandated recall, or a voluntary recall, could divert managerial and financial resources, could be difficult and costly to correct, could result in the suspension of sales of ferumoxytol, and would have a severe adverse impact on our revenues, our potential profitability, and the future prospects of our business. We may also be required to conduct certain post-approval clinical studies to assess known or suspected significant risks associated with ferumoxytol. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or the FDAAA, expanded the FDA's authority. Under the FDAAA, the FDA may: (i) require manufacturers to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess known risks or signals of serious risks, or to identify unexpected serious risks; (ii) mandate labeling changes to a product based on new safety information; or (iii) require sponsors to implement risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, or REMS, where necessary to assure safe use of the drug. If we are required to conduct post-approval clinical studies or implement REMS, or if the FDA changes the label for ferumoxytol to include additional discussion of potential safety issues, such requirements or restrictions would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues from sales of ferumoxytol, or require us to expend significant additional funds on clinical studies. Our ability to generate and grow revenues from the commercialization and sale of ferumoxytol will be limited if we do not obtain approval to market ferumoxytol for additional indications in the U.S. or if we do not obtain approval to market ferumoxytol in additional countries. The NDA we submitted to the FDA in December 2007 requests approval to market and sell ferumoxytol in the U.S. as an IV iron replacement therapeutic for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia in CKD patients, whether or not on dialysis. We plan to conduct additional clinical trials and then seek regulatory approval to market ferumoxytol in additional indications. Before we can obtain approval to market ferumoxytol for these additional indications, we will need to successfully conduct clinical trials showing that ferumoxytol is safe and effective in these new patient populations and then apply for and obtain appropriate regulatory approvals. At this time, we have not begun any clinical studies of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic in any patient populations other than CKD. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires adherence to a wide range of regulatory requirements. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in completing any clinical trials in additional patient populations in a timely manner or that, if completed, the results of such clinical trials will demonstrate ferumoxytol to be safe and effective in such patient populations. 23 To the extent we wish to manufacture, market or sell ferumoxytol in foreign countries, we will need to comply with foreign regulatory requirements, which vary widely from country to country and may in some cases be more rigorous than requirements in the U.S. Foreign regulatory agents may require additional studies or studies designed with different clinical endpoints and/or comparators than those which we have already completed. The time required for approval may also be longer or shorter than in the U.S. Any failure by us to obtain approval for additional ferumoxytol indications in the U.S. or any failure to obtain approval outside the U.S. may limit the commercial success of ferumoxytol and our ability to grow our revenues. Our ability to generate future revenues from ferumoxytol will depend heavily on our ability to obtain satisfactory coverage, reimbursement and pricing for ferumoxytol. Our ability to successfully commercialize ferumoxytol will depend on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for ferumoxytol from third-party payors, including governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private payors. Payors generally have discretion whether and how to cover new pharmaceutical products, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to convince payors to cover ferumoxytol. We expect that ferumoxytol will be purchased by hospitals, clinics, dialysis centers, physicians and other users, each of which generally relies on third-party payors to reimburse them or their patients for pharmaceutical products administered in the hospital, clinic, dialysis center and physician-office settings. Public and private insurance coverage and reimbursement plans are therefore central to new product acceptance, with customers unlikely to use ferumoxytol if they do not receive adequate reimbursement. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to reform the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell ferumoxytol profitably. As a result of these reimbursement and legislative proposals, and the trend toward managed health care in the U.S., third-party payors, including government and private payors, are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. These cost-containment methods may include, but are not limited to, using formularies, which are lists of approved or preferred drugs, requiring prior authorization, utilizing variable co-payments, limiting reimbursement where less-costly alternatives are available, or refusing to provide coverage of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. With respect to ferumoxytol, Medicare generally reimburses for physician-administered drugs in the dialysis center, physician clinic, and hospital outpatient settings at a rate of 106% of the drug's ASP. If CMS, or its local contractor, believes that ferumoxytol's ASP is too high, it may attempt to initiate one or more of the cost-containment methods discussed above at either the national or local level. It is highly uncertain whether the ASP reimbursement methodology will continue to apply if and when ferumoxytol is approved by the FDA, and any changes in reimbursement policies may have a negative impact on the level of reimbursement available for ferumoxytol. In 2003, the PDIMA required CMS to design a system that would "bundle" payments for physician-administered drugs together with other ESRD items and services under a single capitated payment. PDIMA also mandated that CMS implement a pilot, or demonstration, project to study the results of a bundled payment system. The demonstration project has not yet been implemented, but bundling initiatives continue to be discussed by Congress and CMS, and additional legislation is possible. If bundling is initiated, it may lower utilization of physician-administered drugs in the ESRD market and may limit our ability to successfully market and sell ferumoxytol. While PDIMA applies only to Medicare, private payors and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting their own reimbursement methodologies. Any change in the Medicare reimbursement rate would therefore likely result in changes to payment rates from non-Medicare payors as well, further limiting our ability to successfully market and sell ferumoxytol. To the extent we sell our products internationally, market acceptance may also depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within existing healthcare payment systems. Generally, in 24 Europe and other countries outside the U.S., the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of healthcare costs of patients and therefore enjoys significant market power. Some foreign countries also set prices for pharmaceutical products as part of the regulatory process, and we cannot guarantee that the prices set by such governments will be sufficient to generate revenues in those countries. The investment of our cash and our short-term investments is subject to risks which may cause losses or adversely affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2007, we had $28.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $258.6 million classified as short-term investments. We have historically invested our funds in institutional money market funds, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury and government agency securities, municipal debt securities, and auction rate securities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults and the ensuing fallout which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. Our investment portfolio included municipal auction rate securities of approximately $105.4 million as of December 31, 2007. These municipal auction rate securities have been recorded at cost, which approximated fair market value due to their variable interest rates. Auction rate securities are generally debt instruments that provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals, generally 7 to 35 days. This auction mechanism generally allows existing investors to roll over their holdings and continue to own their securities or liquidate their holdings by selling their securities at par value. If auctions were to fail for securities in which we have invested, those investments will not be liquid. In the event that we need to access our investments in these securities, we will not be able to do so until a future auction is successful, the issuer redeems the outstanding securities, a buyer is found outside the auction process, or the securities mature which in almost all cases is more than one year and as many as 40 years in the future. Beginning in mid-February 2008, several of our municipal auction rate securities experienced failed auctions. Since then, the continued uncertainty in the credit markets has caused additional auctions with respect to our auction rate securities to fail and prevented us from liquidating certain of our holdings of auction rate securities because the amount of these securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for these securities. There is a risk that auctions related to other securities that we own may fail and that there could be a decline in value of these securities or any other securities which may ultimately be deemed to be other than temporary. In the future, should we experience additional auction failures and/or determine that these declines in value of auction rate securities are other than temporary, we would recognize a loss in our consolidated statement of operations, which could be material. In addition, any future failed auctions may adversely impact the liquidity of our investments. Based on our ability to access our cash and other short-term investments, our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate that the current lack of liquidity with respect to these securities will materially affect our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course, however, we are uncertain when the current liquidity issues relating to auction rate securities will improve, if at all. The condition of the credit markets remains dynamic. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity with respect to our other investments. In addition, should our other investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 25 Our corporate compliance program cannot ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable "fraud and abuse" laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business. Our general operations, and the research, development, manufacture, sale and marketing of our products and product candidates, including ferumoxytol, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, including but not limited to FDA regulations, the federal false claims act, and the federal anti-kickback statute. While we are in the process of developing and implementing a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potential federal and state regulations and/or laws. If we or our representatives fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, including, but not limited to, the termination of our clinical trials, the failure to approve ferumoxytol, restrictions on how we market and sell ferumoxytol, restrictions on our manufacturing processes, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation, or other sanctions. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves, such actions could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Legislative or regulatory changes may adversely impact our business. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. New laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require us to modify our development programs, revise the way we manufacture, market and sell ferumoxytol, require additional clinical trials or post-approval safety studies, or limit coverage or reimbursement for ferumoxytol. Any such new laws, regulations, decisions or interpretations may therefore have a significant adverse impact on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize ferumoxytol, and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate and grow our revenues and achieve profitability. We have limited marketing and sales experience. We have very limited experience in marketing and selling products, relying on our corporate partners to market and sell our current approved products, Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK. In order to achieve commercial success for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, we will have to develop our own internal sales and marketing function, including a direct sales force in the U.S., enter into a collaborative arrangement with a third party or parties to market and sell ferumoxytol, or otherwise contract for these services with a third party. We are currently planning to, and we are in the process of, building our own internal sales and marketing function. Developing an internal marketing team and sales force is expensive and time-consuming. We may not be able to successfully recruit and retain the qualified marketing and sales personnel that will be necessary to effectively market and sell ferumoxytol. In addition, we will have to build our commercial infrastructure, hire our sales force, and expend substantial amounts of capital to prepare for the commercial launch of ferumoxytol before we know whether the FDA has approved the marketing and sale of ferumoxytol. If ferumoxytol is not approved by the FDA, we will not have the ability to redeploy the sales force, and we will have no way to recoup the capital expended in building the sales force and commercial organization, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash position. If, however, we choose not to market and sell ferumoxytol ourselves, we may not be able to contract with others for such services on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in developing our own sales and marketing function or if we are unsuccessful in entering into a collaborative relationship or otherwise contracting with a third party for such services, then our marketing efforts and our potential product launch of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic would be delayed, and the commercialization of ferumoxytol would be severely 26 impaired. Furthermore, we may not be successful in marketing and selling ferumoxytol. Factors that may adversely impact our ability to effectively market and sell ferumoxytol include: •Our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •The inability of our sales personnel to obtain access to and persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe or use ferumoxytol; •A lack of complementary products that can be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with larger product lines; and •Unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating a sales and marketing organization. Any delay or failure in our commercial product launch of ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects for our business. The commercial success of ferumoxytol will depend upon the degree of market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, and the two major operators of dialysis clinics in the U.S. For a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, ferumoxytol may not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors or dialysis clinics. If ferumoxytol does not achieve an adequate level of market acceptance for any reason, sales of ferumoxytol, our potential profitability and our future business prospects would be severely adversely impacted. Ferumoxytol will represent an alternative to existing products and might not be adopted by the medical community if perceived to be no safer or more effective than currently available products. The degree of market acceptance of ferumoxytol will depend on a number of factors, including: •The establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of ferumoxytol; •The timing of market entry of ferumoxytol relative to competitive treatments; •Our ability to sell ferumoxytol at competitive prices; •The availability of sufficient third-party coverage and reimbursement; •The relative convenience and ease of administration of ferumoxytol as compared to alternative iron therapies; •The actual or perceived safety profile of ferumoxytol relative to alternative iron therapies; •The availability of generic iron preparations; •The strength of our marketing and distribution support; and •The ferumoxytol labeling and product insert required by the FDA or regulatory agencies in other countries. Currently IV iron therapeutic products are not widely used by physicians who treat pre-dialysis CKD patients in the physician's office setting due to safety concerns and the inconvenience and often impracticability of administering currently approved IV iron therapeutic products in that setting. A key component of our commercialization strategy is to create a market for IV iron replacement therapeutics, specifically ferumoxytol, in the pre-dialysis CKD market. Therefore, if approved, it will be critical for us to successfully market and sell ferumoxytol to physicians who treat pre-dialysis CKD patients in the physician's office setting. It is often difficult to change physicians' existing treatment paradigms even when supportive clinical data is available. If we are not successful in marketing and selling ferumoxytol, if and when approved, to physicians who treat pre-dialysis CKD patients in the physician's office setting, our ability to generate revenues, achieve and maintain profitability, and long-term business prospects would be adversely affected. 27 The dialysis market is the largest and most established market for IV iron replacement therapies, with two companies serving a significant majority of all dialysis patients on Medicare. Fresenius Medical Care, or Fresenius, and DaVita, Inc., or DaVita, treat more than 60% of the U.S. dialysis population. If we are unable to successfully market and sell ferumoxytol to physicians who treat dialysis dependent CKD patients in clinics controlled by either or both of Fresenius and DaVita, our ability to realize and grow revenues from sales of ferumoxytol will be severely limited, which would have a material adverse impact on our potential profitability, and our future business prospects. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries is intense. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are more effective, safer, less expensive or more convenient than ferumoxytol, our commercial opportunity for ferumoxytol will be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid technological change. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in product development, manufacturing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing and selling approved products than we do. Our ferumoxytol commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, have fewer side effects, are less expensive, are easier to administer, or have more favorable pricing and reimbursement than ferumoxytol. In addition, any significant delays in the development, FDA approval or commercial launch of ferumoxytol could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to successfully commercialize ferumoxytol. There are currently two types of treatment options for treating iron deficiency anemia in CKD patients: oral iron supplements and IV iron. We anticipate that, if approved, ferumoxytol will primarily compete with existing IV iron replacement therapies, including Venofer®, which is marketed by American Regent, Ferrlecit®, which is marketed by Watson, and certain oral iron products. Although we believe ferumoxytol will offer advantages over oral iron supplements and existing products in the IV iron replacement therapy market, competing iron replacement therapy products may receive greater market acceptance, especially since these products are already on the market and are currently widely used by physicians. We may not be able to convince physicians to switch from using the currently approved IV iron therapeutic products to ferumoxytol even with supportive clinical data. The iron replacement market is highly sensitive to several factors including, but not limited to, the ability to obtain appropriate reimbursement, price competitiveness, and product characteristics such as convenience of administration and dosing regimens. In particular, the IV iron replacement market is extremely sensitive to the perceived relative safety profiles of the various IV iron replacement therapeutics, and it will be critical for us to be able to demonstrate that ferumoxytol's safety profile is as good as or better than that of other IV iron replacement products in order to be competitive in the marketplace. To date, we have not conducted any head-to-head clinical studies comparing the relative safety profiles of ferumoxytol to other IV iron replacement products. In addition to the currently marketed products, there are several iron replacement therapy products in various stages of clinical development in the U.S. and abroad, including VIT-45, also known as Ferinject® or Injectafer®, and SFP, a form of iron given as part of the hemodialysis procedure. In June 2006, The Galenica Group, a Swiss company, or Galenica, announced that Luitpold Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a subsidiary of Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. of Japan, and the U.S. licensing partner of Vifor (International), a Galenica subsidiary, submitted an NDA to the FDA for Ferinject® (under the name Injectafer®), an IV iron replacement product for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia in heavy uterine bleeding, postpartum, inflammatory bowel disease and hemodialysis patients. In response to the June 2006 NDA submission, the FDA issued a non-approvable letter in 2007. The sponsor submitted a response and changed its proposed indications to only patients with iron deficiency anemia in the post-partum condition or patients with heavy uterine bleeding. On February 1, 2008, an FDA advisory committee held a meeting to advise the FDA on the marketing approval of Injectafer® for its proposed indications. The advisory committee voted that Injectafer® should only be approved for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia in post-partum women or women with heavy uterine bleeding who 28 had an unsatisfactory response to, or were intolerant of, oral iron. The FDA is not required to follow the recommendations of the advisory committee. We believe the FDA will act upon the Injectafer® NDA some time in March 2008, but we do not know if Injectafer® will receive U.S. approval at that time. If any of these product candidates are approved for marketing and sale by the FDA before ferumoxytol is approved, our efforts to market and sell ferumoxytol, if approved, and our ability to generate additional revenues and achieve profitability would be adversely affected. In addition to competition from currently approved products and products known by us to be currently under development, the market opportunity for ferumoxytol would be negatively affected if generic iron replacement therapy products were to be approved and achieve commercial success. Companies that manufacture generic products typically invest far less resources in research and development than the manufacture of a branded product and can therefore price their products significantly lower than those already on the market. It remains unclear whether a generic product will enter this market. Further technological and product developments may also make new iron replacement therapy products more competitive than IV iron products, adversely impacting our ability to successfully commercialize ferumoxytol. Our inability to obtain raw materials and our reliance on sole source suppliers could adversely impact our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of ferumoxytol, which would have a severe adverse impact on our business. We currently purchase the raw materials used to manufacture our products, including ferumoxytol, from third-party suppliers. Only in certain limited cases do we have any long-term supply contracts with these third parties. Certain raw materials used in our products, including ferumoxytol, are procured from a single source with no qualified alternative supplier. If any of these third-party suppliers should cease to produce the raw materials used in our products or otherwise fail to supply these raw materials to us or fail to supply these raw materials to us in sufficient quantities for any reason, including any unexpected demand for the raw materials, labor disputes or shortages, manufacturing difficulties, or import or export problems, we would be unable to manufacture our products, including ferumoxytol, or be unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities until we are able to qualify an alternative source. The qualification of an alternative source may require repeated testing of the new materials and generate greater expenses to us if materials that we test do not perform in an acceptable manner. In addition, we sometimes obtain raw materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high quality standards imposed on our raw materials, we may not be able to obtain raw materials of the quality required to manufacture our products, including ferumoxytol, from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Any delay in or failure to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials would prevent us from manufacturing ferumoxytol, both for commercial sale and for use by us in clinical trials. In addition, even if we are able to obtain raw materials from an alternative source, if these raw materials are not available in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we would be unable to manufacture ferumoxytol, both for commercial sale and for use in our clinical trials, on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any such difficulty in obtaining raw materials would severely hinder our ability to manufacture ferumoxytol and would have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues and our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business. 29 We need to maintain, and possibly increase, our manufacturing capabilities or establish and qualify a second source manufacturing facility in order to successfully commercialize ferumoxytol. We currently manufacture bulk Feridex I.V. and GastroMARK, as well as Feridex I.V. finished product, Combidex bulk product for use in non-Phase III clinical trials and ferumoxytol for use in human clinical trials, in our Cambridge, MA manufacturing facility. Our current plan is to use this facility to manufacture ferumoxytol for commercial sale if and when it is approved by the FDA. Although we have begun the work to establish and qualify a second source manufacturing facility for ferumoxytol, we currently have one manufacturing facility at which we produce limited quantities of ferumoxytol. We have tested scale-up for production of ferumoxytol, but when we manufacture ferumoxytol in larger volumes for commercial sale, we could experience higher than anticipated material, labor and overhead costs per unit. Additionally, manufacturing and quality control problems may arise as we increase our level of production. We may not be able to increase our manufacturing capacity in a timely and cost-effective manner to meet demand for ferumoxytol if and when it is approved by the FDA, and we may experience delays in manufacturing ferumoxytol. Furthermore, we will need to recruit additional qualified manufacturing and quality control personnel as we prepare for production of ferumoxytol on a commercial scale. If we fail to attract and retain key members of our manufacturing or quality control departments, we may be unable to manufacture ferumoxytol in a timely manner, which could delay our product sales and development efforts. In determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we will also need to make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends, anticipated sales, and other factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amount of product need. Any difference between our estimates and the actual amount of product need could result in unmet demand or in excess inventory, each of which would adversely impact our financial results and business prospects. In addition, our manufacturing facility is subject to current cGMP regulations enforced by the FDA. We may not be able to continue to operate at commercial scale in compliance with cGMP regulations. Failure to operate in compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various regulatory agencies could delay our development efforts and impede product sales due to the unavailability of an adequate supply of our products. Although we are working to establish and qualify a second source manufacturing facility for ferumoxytol, we may not be able to enter into agreements with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements. Furthermore, use of a second-source manufacturing facility may increase the risk of certain problems, including cost overruns, process reproducibility, stability issues, or an inability to deliver required quantities of product that conform to specifications in a timely manner. If we are unable to consistently manufacture our products on a timely basis because of these or other factors, we will not be able to meet anticipated demand. As a result, we may lose sales and fail to generate increased revenues, which would have a severe adverse impact on our potential profitability and future business prospects. We may be unable to address the issues raised by the FDA in the March 2005 approvable letter with respect to Combidex, and we may not be able to obtain FDA approval for Combidex. Although we have received an approvable letter from the FDA with respect to Combidex, approval of Combidex remains highly uncertain and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions imposed by the FDA. We have considered whether additional data from a Phase III study sponsored by Guerbet in Europe in patients with pelvic cancers, including prostate, bladder, cervical and uterine cancer, together with other additional analyses and information we may provide to the FDA will address the concerns raised in the March 2005 approvable letter. Based on our review of the data from the Guerbet trial, it appears unlikely the data from that trial will be sufficient to address the concerns raised by the FDA, which means we may have to sponsor one or more additional clinical trials to obtain approval for 30 Combidex. We cannot at this time predict with certainty the timing or likelihood of our ability to satisfy the conditions specified by the FDA for approval of Combidex, if at all. If we are unable to successfully address the concerns of the FDA in a timely manner, the NDA for Combidex may not be approved, or, if approved, may be approved for a limited or much narrower indication. Any failure to successfully market and sell Combidex or any delay in these efforts would significantly impair or delay our ability to generate future revenues from product sales of Combidex, reduce the amount of cash generated from operations and adversely impact our potential profitability. Our operating results will likely fluctuate so you should not rely on the results of any single quarter to predict how we will perform over time. Our future operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors including: •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with the potential commercial launch of ferumoxytol, including manufacturing costs and costs associated with hiring additional sales and marketing personnel, building our commercial infrastructure and executing promotional and marketing programs; •The timing and magnitude of research and development expenses, in particular, those related to our development program for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic; •The timing and likelihood of FDA approval for ferumoxytol, including the magnitude of potential revenues associated with sales of ferumoxytol, if approved; •The extent of and changes in reimbursement for our approved products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; •The variable nature of product sales of our currently-approved products to our marketing partners and the batch size in which our products are manufactured; •Uneven demand for our currently-approved products by end users, which affects the royalties we receive from our marketing partners; and •The magnitude of future non-cash accounting charges we expect to record to expense in a given period as a result of our adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, 123R, "Share-Based Payment," or SFAS 123R. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Because of the specialized nature of our business, we are highly reliant on certain of our executive officers, senior scientists, regulatory and clinical professionals, and manufacturing and quality control personnel, in particular our Chief Executive Officer and President, Brian J.G. Pereira, MD, and our Vice President of Scientific Operations, Jerome Lewis. If we are unable to retain these personnel, or we lose the services of our key personnel for any reason, our ferumoxytol development and commercialization efforts would be severely adversely impacted. In addition, in order to achieve commercial success for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, we will have to either develop our own internal marketing and sales function, including a direct sales force, enter into a collaborative arrangement with a third party or parties to market and sell ferumoxytol, or otherwise contract for these services with a third party. We are currently planning to, and are in the process of, building our own internal sales and marketing function, including a direct sales force. We may not be able to successfully recruit and retain the qualified marketing and sales personnel that will be necessary to effectively market and sell ferumoxytol. Furthermore, if we fail to recruit and retain additional key members of our manufacturing or quality control departments as we prepare for commercial scale 31 production of ferumoxytol, our ability to manufacture ferumoxytol, or to manufacture ferumoxytol in a timely and cost-effective manner, could be hindered and our product sales and development efforts delayed. Furthermore, our expected expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as late-stage development and marketing and sales, will require the addition of new management personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could impose significant limits on our business operations and hinder our ability to successfully and efficiently complete our development projects. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our ability to commercialize ferumoxytol, pursue opportunities and expand our business could be adversely affected. Growth in our business has placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our employees, management, facilities and resources. In anticipation of the potential approval for ferumoxytol, we are quickly and significantly growing our regulatory, medical affairs, marketing, sales, manufacturing and compliance capabilities. As our operations expand, we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. In addition, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, train and manage our expanding workforce, and maintain close coordination among our various departments. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any one of them could prevent us from successfully commercializing ferumoxytol, pursuing new business opportunities, or expanding our business, any one of which could adversely impact our future business prospects. We may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, or acquisition agreements that could decrease our profitability, result in dilution to stockholders or cause us to incur debt or significant additional expense. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue collaboration, in-licensing opportunities, acquisitions of complementary products or businesses, and/or strategic alliances. We have limited experience with respect to these business development activities. Any such strategic transactions by us could result in large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which would adversely impact our operating results. Management of a license arrangement, collaboration, or other strategic arrangement and/or integration of an acquired asset or company may also require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business and our anticipated commercial launch of ferumoxytol. We may not identify or complete any such transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction. In addition, to finance any such strategic transactions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings, and such additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. 32 We may need additional capital to achieve our business objectives. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to complete development, clinical trials, commercial launch preparations, and other activities necessary to successfully commercialize ferumoxytol. In particular, we anticipate that the high levels of expenditures will continue due to the conduct of our development program for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic, our development of a sales and marketing function, our preparation for commercial launch of ferumoxytol, our pursuit of additional indications for ferumoxytol, and our efforts to obtain approval for ferumoxytol outside the U.S., and that our cash-burn rate will continue to increase in the near- and long-term. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on additional factors, including, but not limited to: •Our ability to successfully obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic in a timely manner; •Costs associated with our preparations for the potential commercial launch of ferumoxytol, including costs associated with hiring additional sales and marketing personnel, building our commercial infrastructure and executing promotional and marketing programs; •Costs associated with preparing for commercial-scale manufacturing of ferumoxytol, including costs associated with qualifying a second manufacturing facility and second source suppliers; •Costs associated with our development of additional indications for ferumoxytol; •Costs associated with the pursuit of potential business development activities; •Costs associated with our pursuit of approval for ferumoxytol as an IV iron replacement therapeutic outside the U.S.; •The magnitude of product sales and royalties; •Our ability to establish additional development and marketing arrangements or to enter into alternative strategic relationships, if necessary; •Costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; and •Our ability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us, if necessary. We estimate that our existing cash resources, combined with cash we currently expect to receive from earnings on our investments, will be sufficient to finance our operations for at least the next twelve months. Thereafter, we may require additional funds or need to establish alternative strategic arrangements to continue our ferumoxytol commercialization efforts and our research and development activities and to conduct future clinical trials for ferumoxytol in new indications and in countries outside the U.S. We may seek needed funding through arrangements with collaborative partners or through public or private equity or debt financings. We may not be able to obtain financing or to secure alternative strategic arrangements on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. Any additional equity financings or alternative strategic arrangements would likely be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, the terms of any debt financing could greatly restrict our ability to raise additional capital and may provide rights and preferences to the investors in any such financing which are not available to current stockholders. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us when needed could force us to dramatically reduce our expenses and delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our activities and operations, including our development activities, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future business prospects. 33 Our success depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets in the conduct of our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications. The breadth of the claims obtained in our patents may not provide significant protection for our technology. The degree of protection afforded by patents for licensed technologies or for future discoveries may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. The patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. Moreover, patents issued to us may be contested or invalidated. Future patent interference proceedings involving our patents may harm our ability to commercialize ferumoxytol. Claims of infringement or violation of the proprietary rights of others may be asserted against us. If we are required to defend against such claims or to protect our own proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial costs to us and the distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could prevent us from marketing and selling ferumoxytol, limit our development and commercialization of ferumoxytol, or harm our competitive position and result in additional significant costs. In addition, any successful claim of infringement asserted against us could subject us to monetary damages or injunction preventing us from making or selling products. We also may be required to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We currently hold approximately 18 U.S. patents and approximately 25 foreign patents, which expire between the years 2008 and 2020, some of which may be subject to extension under FDA regulations. Because certain patents that cover our products will begin to expire in the coming years, the protection provided by these patents will also begin to expire. Our inability to commercialize our products prior to the expiration of our patents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects as the expiration of such patents could permit generic drug manufacturers to manufacture, market and sell lower cost drugs that compete with our products and product candidates. In the future, we may be required to obtain additional licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of others in order to commercialize our products or continue with our development efforts. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain such licenses could result in delays in marketing our products or our inability to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products or product candidates requiring such licenses. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. In countries where we do not have or have not applied for patents on our products, we will be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where we have patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our proprietary superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticle technology. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements, however, may be breached. We may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches, and our trade secrets might otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that an equivalent product will not be marketed in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. 34 We are exposed to potential liability claims and we may not be able to maintain or obtain sufficient insurance coverage. We maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products and product candidates in clinical trials and commercial use. However, coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and costs may continue to increase significantly, and we may not be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. Furthermore, our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage amounts to protect us against liability that could deplete our capital resources. We also may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any product approved for marketing in the future. Our insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability or cover costs resulting from product liability claims. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could reduce or eliminate our resources, whether or not the plaintiffs in such claims ultimately prevail. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and contractual agreements with our directors and officers, and in order to attract competent candidates, we are obligated to indemnify our officers and directors against certain claims arising from their service to us. We maintain directors and officers' liability insurance to cover such potential claims against our officers and directors. However, this insurance may not be adequate for certain claims and deductibles apply. As a result of our indemnification obligations and in instances where insurance coverage is not available or insufficient, any liability claim or series of claims brought against our officers or directors could deplete or exhaust our resources, regardless of the ultimate disposition of such claims. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. Because we use certain hazardous materials in the production of our products and product candidates, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating the release or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, and such owner or operator may incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly the release or spill of, these substances could adversely affect the value of, and our ability to transfer or encumber, our real property. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. This price has ranged between $43.59 and $72.95 in the fifty-two week period through February 15, 2008. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including any announcements by us or our competitors regarding: •The results of discovery, preclinical studies and clinical trials; •The acquisition of technologies, product candidates or products; •The development of new technologies, product candidates or products; •Regulatory actions with respect to our product candidates or products or those of our competitors; •Developments in patents or other proprietary rights; 35 •Public concern regarding the safety of our product candidates or products or those of our competitors; •The initiation of litigation to enforce or defend any of our assets; •Legislative initiatives by Congress or reimbursement changes by governmental or private payors; and •Significant agreements with collaborators, strategic partnerships, acquisitions, joint ventures or capital commitments. For example, any announcement of any positive or negative developments with respect to our efforts to obtain FDA approval to market and sell ferumoxytol, or our competitors' efforts to obtain FDA approval for competitive product candidates, would likely have a dramatic impact on our stock price. Thus, as a result of events both within and beyond our control, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or lose value rapidly. Our trading volume has historically been relatively low and therefore bulk sales or substantial purchases of our stock in a short period of time could cause the market price for our shares to decline or fluctuate drastically. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. Currently, eight financial analysts publish reports about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or issue commentary or observations that are perceived by the market to be adverse to us or our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. 