Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those under “Business” in Item 1 and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II. The risks described therein and elsewhere in this report are incorporated into this Item 1A by reference. If any of the events described below occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or which we currently deem to be immaterial, could also harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation regarding the conduct of our operations. If we fail to comply with any existing or new regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Overview. Companies such as ours that provide health care services are required to comply with many highly complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, those relating to the adequacy of medical care, billing for services, patient privacy, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and maintenance of records. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses to operate our facilities. We could also be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs that contribute significantly to our revenue. Many of the laws and regulations that govern our operations are highly complex and, in certain cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of such laws and regulations, as well as modifications thereof, could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or capital expenditure programs. Any such changes could harm our business and results of operations. We are unable to predict the impact that the Health Care Reform Act, which will significantly change the health care industry, will have on our business and results of operations. The Health Care Reform Act will dramatically change how health care services are covered, delivered and reimbursed through, among other things: a requirement that most Americans obtain health insurance; expanded Medicaid eligibility and coverage for uninsured individuals; reduced growth in Medicare program spending; reductions in Medicare and Medicaid payments; the establishment of value-based purchasing programs where reimbursement is tied to quality; and the elimination of the ability of health care providers like us to enter into new partnerships with physicians in the ownership of certain health care facilities. Additionally, the Health Care Reform Act contains provisions designed to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement, modifies the health insurance industry and expands existing efforts to tie Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement to performance and quality. We believe that the expansion of health insurance coverage under the Health Care Reform Act could increase the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program health care coverage. As a result of the increased income eligibility limits under the law, we anticipate a large percentage of the new Medicaid coverage to be in states that currently have relatively low income eligibility requirements. Two such states are Florida and Mississippi, where we operated 32 hospitals as of December 31, 2010. It is difficult to predict the impact of these changes from the Health Care Reform Act on us because of numerous issues surrounding the implementation of such law, including, but not limited to, uncertainty regarding: • the possibility that portions of the Health Care Reform Act, such as those expanding health insurance or Medicaid coverage, will be delayed or blocked due to court challenges, or revised or repealed as a result of legislative action; • how many previously uninsured individuals will obtain coverage; • what percent of newly insured patients will be covered under Medicaid or private health insurance programs; • the pace at which health care insurance coverage expands; • the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • changes in rates paid to hospitals by private payors; • changes in rates paid by state governments under the Medicaid program; • the ability of states to fund their portion of Medicaid payments; • the extent to which states will enroll new Medicaid participants in managed care programs; • how the performance and quality programs mandated by the Health Care Reform Act will be implemented; and • whether the Health Care Reform Act will ultimately cause health insurers to seek to reduce reimbursement payments. The Health Care Reform Act also provides for significant reductions in the growth of Medicare spending, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid payments and the establishment of value-based purchasing programs. It is possible that these changes could more than offset other favorable effects from the Health Care Reform Act. It is difficult to predict the impact of the potentially adverse changes on us because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, uncertainty regarding: • whether reductions required by the Health Care Reform Act will be modified prior to becoming effective; • the revenue we will generate from Medicare and Medicaid business when the various reductions and adjustments planned under the Health Care Reform Act are implemented; • whether the Health Care Reform Act’s performance and quality initiatives will have a negative impact on our business; • how successful “Accountable Care Organizations” in which we may participate will be at coordinating care and reducing costs; • changes to revenue as a result of value-based purchasing; • changes to revenue as a result of bundled payment programs; • the scope and nature of potential changes to Medicare reimbursement methods; and • reductions in payments we might receive from Medicare for “excessive readmissions” or “hospital acquired conditions.” As summarized above and elsewhere in this section, we cannot predict the full impact of the Health Care Reform Act on our business or results of operations because of, among other things: the law’s complexity; the lack of implementing regulations and/or interpretive guidance; the timing of the law’s implementation (and possible delays in such implementation); pending and future legal challenges that seek to delay or block certain of the law’s provisions; and possible amendment or repeal of the law. Additionally, we cannot predict how individuals and businesses will respond to the new mandates and alternatives established under the Health Care Reform Act. We are subject to “anti-kickback” and “self-referral” laws and regulations that provide for criminal and civil penalties if they are violated. The health care industry is subject to many laws and regulations designed to deter and prevent practices deemed by the government to be fraudulent or abusive. Unless an exception applies, federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit giving or receiving any consideration in return for physician referrals. Similarly, unless an exception applies, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark law” prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to providers of enumerated “designated health services” with whom the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be “self-referrals” due to the physician’s financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated health care services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of payment for the patient’s care. The Health Care Reform Act provides that submission of a claim for services generated or items provided in violation of the Stark law constitutes a false or fraudulent claim that may be subject to additional penalties under the federal False Claims Act. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Health Care Reform Act provides greater resources to enforce the Stark law, including supplemental federal funding of $350 million over the next ten years to fight health care fraud, waste and abuse. The Health Care Reform Act also changes the intent requirement for health care fraud such that a person need not have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the law. This change in the intent requirement will likely make it easier for fraud claims to be brought against a health care provider. We systematically review our operations on a regular basis and believe that we are in compliance with anti-kickback laws, the Stark law and similar state statutes. When evaluating collaborative relationships with physicians, we consider the scope and effect of these statutes and seek to structure the arrangements in full compliance with their provisions. We also maintain a company-wide compliance program to monitor and promote our continued compliance with these and other statutory prohibitions and requirements. Nevertheless, if it is determined that any of our practices or operations violate the anti-kickback laws, the Stark law or similar state statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs that contribute significantly to our revenue. The imposition of penalties for alleged or actual violations of the anti-kickback laws, the Stark law and/or similar state statutes, our inability to comply with changes in such laws and/or significant compliance costs associated with any modified laws and regulations could each harm our business. Additionally, the anti-kickback laws, the Stark law and similar state statutes are subject to change and interpretations and we may not be able to comply with the modified laws and regulations. Moreover, our continued compliance with any such modified laws and regulations could require us to devote extensive resources, financial and otherwise, to achieving and maintaining compliance. Providers in the hospital industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations and we could become subject to such investigations or whistleblower lawsuits in the future. Historically, significant media and public attention has been focused on the hospital industry due to investigations related to referrals, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home health care services and physician ownership of joint ventures involving hospitals. Federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated their civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Additionally, the Office of the Inspector General of HHS and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, established enforcement initiatives that focus on specific areas of suspected fraud and abuse. Recent and recently announced initiatives have focused on hospital billing practices (e.g., kyphoplasty, implantable cardioverter defibrillators, or ICDs, etc.), health care provider bad debts, disproportionate share payments, reliability of hospital-reported quality measure data, compliance with the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, MS-DRG coding and serious medical errors. In March 2005, CMS began implementing a pilot recovery audit contractor program, known as RAC, which covered health care providers in some of the states where we operate. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 made the RAC program permanent and directed that it be expanded to all fifty states by 2010. CMS awarded contracts to four RAC auditors on October 6, 2008 and authorized work to begin in seventeen states, including some of the states where we operate hospitals and other health care facilities. On such date, CMS also provided its schedule to expand the RAC program to all fifty states by the end of 2010. Among other things, RAC auditors, who are independent contractors, focus on the clinical documentation supporting billings under the Medicare program. If an auditor concludes that such documentation does not support the provider’s Medicare billings, CMS will revise the amount due to the provider, compare such amount to what was previously paid and withhold the difference from a current remittance. The affected facility can appeal the auditor’s findings through an administrative process. The Health Care Reform Act expanded the RAC program’s scope to include managed Medicare plans and Medicaid claims and required all states to enter into contracts with RACs by December 31, 2010. The Health Care Reform Act also increased federal funding for Medicaid Integrity Contractors (private contractors that perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims) for federal fiscal year 2011 and beyond. Additionally, several other contractors, including state Medicaid agencies, have increased their audit and review activities. The federal False Claims Act permits private individuals to bring qui tam lawsuits, or “whistleblower” actions, against companies on behalf of the government, alleging that a hospital or health care provider has defrauded a federal or state government program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. As discussed at Item 3 under “Legal Proceedings” and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we have been named in at least one qui tam action. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in other such lawsuits of which we are not aware. If the government intervenes in an action and prevails, the defendant may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each fraudulent bill submitted by a health care 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements provider to the government is considered a separate false claim and, therefore, penalties under the False Claims Act can be substantial. If the government does not intervene in the action, the qui tam plaintiff may continue to pursue the action independently. As part of the resolution of a qui tam case, the party filing the initial complaint may share in a portion of any settlement or judgment. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity “knowingly” submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The False Claims Act defines the term “knowingly” broadly. Though simple negligence will not give rise to liability under the False Claims Act, submitting a claim with reckless disregard to its truth or falsity constitutes a “knowing” submission under the False Claims Act and, therefore, will qualify for liability. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009, which became law on May 20, 2009, expanded the scope of the False Claims Act by, among other things, creating liability for knowingly and improperly avoiding repayment of an overpayment received from the government and broadening protections for whistleblowers. Under the Health Care Reform Act, the knowing failure to report and return an overpayment within 60 days of identifying the overpayment or by the date a corresponding cost report is due, whichever is later, constitutes a violation of the False Claims Act. Further, the Health Care Reform Act expands the scope of the False Claims Act to cover payments in connection with the new health insurance exchanges to be created by the law, if those payments include any federal funds. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act also changed the scienter requirements for liability under the False Claims Act. An entity may now violate the False Claims Act if it “knowingly and improperly avoids or decreases an obligation” to pay amounts due to the federal government, including obligations based on an “established duty . . . arising from . . . the retention of any overpayment.” Thus, if a provider is aware that it has retained an overpayment that it has an obligation to refund, there may be a basis for a False Claims Act violation even if the provider did not know the claim was “false” when it was submitted. The Health Care Reform Act expressly requires health care providers and others to report and return overpayments. In addition to changing the intent requirement for health care fraud, as described above, the Health Care Reform Act also significantly changes the False Claims Act by removing the jurisdictional bar for allegations based on publicly disclosed information and reducing the requirements for a qui tam relator to qualify as an “original source.” These changes will likely increase the False Claims Act exposure for health care providers by enabling a greater number of whistleblowers to bring claims. We closely monitor our billing and other health care practices to maintain compliance with prevailing industry interpretations of applicable laws and regulations and we believe that our practices are consistent with those in our industry and in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. However, government investigations could be initiated that are inconsistent with industry practices and prevailing interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In public statements, government authorities have from time to time taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation was available. Some of those positions appear to be inconsistent with practices that have been common within our industry and, in some cases, have not been challenged. Additionally, some government investigations that were previously conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under fraud and abuse laws. We cannot predict the outcome of our ongoing qui tam lawsuit or whether we will be the subject of future governmental investigations, inquiries or whistleblower lawsuits. Any determination that we have violated applicable laws or regulations or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations could harm our business and results of operations. We could fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding patient privacy and patient information security that could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. There have been numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security standards related to patient information. In particular, federal regulations issued under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, contain provisions that required us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and related financial information. Such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. We are also required to make certain expenditures to help ensure our continued compliance with such laws and regulations and, in the future, such expenses could negatively impact our results of operations. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, referred to as the Economic Stimulus Act, included provisions for heightened enforcement of HIPAA and stiffer penalties for HIPAA violations. If we are found to have violated or failed to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and our business and results of operations could be harmed. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health programs. The construction and operation of health care facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. Additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with the relevant standards. All of our hospitals (and substantially all of our laboratories, home health agencies and other health care facilities) are accredited, meaning that they are properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the Medicare program. The effect of maintaining accredited facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that all of our health care facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. However, should any of our health care facilities lose their accredited status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business and results of operations could be harmed. Because the requirements for accreditation are subject to modification, it may be necessary for us to affect changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services to maintain accreditation. Such changes could be expensive and could adversely affect our results of operations. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. The construction of new health care facilities, the acquisition of existing health care facilities and the addition of new beds or services at existing health care facilities may be reviewed by state regulatory agencies under certificate of need and similar laws. Except for Arkansas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Texas, all other states where our hospitals operate have certificate of need or similar laws. Such laws generally require state agency determination of public need and local agency approval prior to the construction of a new hospital facility and/or the addition of new beds or significant services to a hospital, or a related capital expenditure. Failure to obtain the necessary approvals in these states could: (i) result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement; (ii) make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs; (iii) result in the revocation of a facility’s license; or (iv) impose civil and criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. We could fail to comply with the federal Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, or EMTALA, which could subject us to civil monetary penalties or cause us to be excluded from participation in the Medicare program. All of our facilities are subject to EMTALA, which requires every hospital participating in the Medicare program to conduct a medical screening examination of each person presented for treatment at its emergency room. If a patient is suffering from an emergency medical condition, the hospital must either stabilize that condition or make an appropriate transfer of the patient to a facility that can handle the condition, regardless of the patient’s ability to pay for care. EMTALA imposes severe penalties if a hospital fails to screen, appropriately stabilize or transfer a patient, or if a hospital delays service while first inquiring about the patient’s ability to pay. Such penalties include, but are not limited to, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition to civil monetary penalties, an aggrieved patient, a patient’s family or a medical facility that ultimately suffers a financial loss as a direct result of a transferring hospital’s EMTALA violation can commence a civil suit under EMTALA. Although we believe that our facilities comply with EMTALA, there can be no assurances that claims will not be brought against us and, if successfully asserted against one or more of our hospitals, such claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased state regulation of the rates we charge for our services could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently operate one hospital in West Virginia, a state that requires us to submit annual requests for increases in our rates. Accordingly, the operating margins for our West Virginia hospital may be adversely affected if we are unable to increase our rates as our expenses increase, or if the rates we charge are decreased as a result of regulatory action. If other states in which we operate enact similar rate-setting laws, those actions could harm our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Continued weak economic conditions and an unstable credit market could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our future patient volume, the ability to collect our accounts receivable and our overall future results of operations could be materially adversely impacted by a continuation of the current weak economic conditions, especially levels of unemployment that are substantially higher than historical trends. While certain health care spending is considered non-discretionary and may not be significantly impacted by economic downturns, other types of health care spending may be adversely impacted by these conditions. When individuals are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals. Moreover, a greater number of uninsured patients may seek care in our emergency rooms. We believe that a persistent weak economy could: (i) increase the number of uninsured people, which would likely increase our costs for uncompensated patient care; (ii) reduce our revenue due to decreased funding from Medicaid and other state health care programs that are struggling financially; (iii) reduce the number of elective surgeries and other procedures performed at our hospitals and other health care facilities; and (iv) threaten the solvency of managed care health plans and others that do business with us, each of which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our ability to refinance our long-term debt, if necessary, or secure additional capital resources to fund our operational and growth strategies may depend on our ability to access the credit markets. During the past few years, credit markets have been unstable and, for a period of time, they were essentially unavailable due to a severe banking crisis. We cannot predict whether we will be able to access the credit markets when necessary or desirable. If we are not able to access credit markets and obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms when needed, our business could be materially harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Growth in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients or deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could adversely affect our results of operations. The principal collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts required by the applicable agreement but patient responsibility amounts (e.g., deductibles, co-payments, other amounts not covered by insurance, etc.) remain outstanding. Our provision for doubtful accounts provides for, among other things, amounts due from such patients. The determination of the amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of historical cash collections and accounts receivable write-offs, expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer health care coverage and other relevant key indicators. If we experience significant increases in uninsured and underinsured patients and/or uncollectible accounts receivable, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as the provisions of EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide further medical treatment as is required to stabilize the patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for the transfer of such patient to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital’s written procedures. If our volume of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions increases significantly, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. The Health Care Reform Act seeks to decrease, over time, the uninsured population. Among other things, the Health Care Reform Act will, effective January 1, 2014, expand Medicaid eligibility and incentivize employers to offer, and require individuals to carry, health insurance or be subject to penalties. Even after full implementation of the Health Care Reform Act, we may continue to experience a high level of uncollectible accounts and provide discounts and charity care for certain individuals who are not enrolled in a health care program under the law. If government programs or managed care companies reduce the payments we receive as reimbursement for the health care services we provide, whether as a result of the implementation of the Health Care Reform Act or otherwise, our revenue could decline and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from federal and state government reimbursement programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Such programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning, among other things: (i) patient eligibility requirements and the method of calculating payments or reimbursement; (ii) requirements for utilization review activities; and (iii) federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease the payments to us in the future, as well as affect the timing of such payments. Previous changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. Specifically, the Health Care Reform Act provides for significant reductions in the growth of Medicare program spending, including reductions in market basket update factors and disproportionate share payments. Reductions to our Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement by the Health Care Reform Act could harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations, especially in the short-term before we experience any potential increases in revenue from providing care to previously uninsured individuals. Pressure on federal and state programs, which has increased as a result of the recent economic downturn, may also impact the availability of taxpayer funds for the Medicare and Medicaid programs. For example, a number of states are experiencing substantial budget shortfalls and, as a result, have adopted legislation, or are considering legislation, designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and/or reduce the number of Medicaid enrollees. We are unable to predict the potential effects that future government health care funding policy changes will have on our operations. If the rates paid by government payors are reduced or if the scope of services covered by government payors is limited, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, third party payors, including managed care health plans, are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through, among other means, capitation arrangements under which health care providers are paid a fixed fee per enrolled participant, regardless of the level of services provided to that participant. Efforts by third parties to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and enforce stringent cost controls are expected to continue. In fact, as the Health Care Reform Act is implemented over time, third party payors may increasingly demand reduced fees. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. It would harm our business if we were unable to enter into arrangements with managed care health plans on economic terms that are acceptable to us. Material reductions in the payments that we receive for our services or difficulties collecting our accounts receivable from managed care health plans could each adversely affect our business and results of operations. Controls designed by third parties to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenue. Controls imposed by third party payors that are designed to reduce admissions and average length of hospital stays, commonly referred to as “utilization reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our operations. Utilization reviews entail an evaluation of a patient’s admission and course of treatment by managed care health plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively impacted by payor-required pre-admission authorization, utilization reviews and payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose stringent cost controls are expected to continue. For example, the Health Care Reform Act expands the use of prepayment and postpayment reviews by Medicare and Medicaid contractors. Although we cannot predict the effect that these changes will have on our operations, limitations on the scope of services for which we are reimbursed and/or downward pressure on reimbursement rates and fees as a result of utilization reviews could adversely affect our results of operations. Our substantial borrowings have, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our business and may affect our ability to secure additional financing when needed. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $3.0 billion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations, as well as availability of $450.5 million under a long-term revolving credit facility. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness or secure additional capital resources to fund our operational, acquisition and other growth strategies will depend on, among other things, our future operating performance. Those operating results may be affected by general economic, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. We believe that our future cash flow from operating activities, together with currently available and potentially new financing arrangements, will be sufficient to fund our operating, strategic growth, capital expenditure and debt service requirements. However, if we fail to meet our financial obligations or if supplemental financing is not available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, our business could be harmed. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our substantial leverage and debt service requirements could have other important consequences to us, including, but not limited to, the following: • Our $3.25 billion senior secured credit facilities, which are described at Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, and the indentures governing our senior notes and our convertible senior subordinated notes contain, and any future debt obligations we incur will likely contain, covenants and restrictions that, among other things, require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. If we do not comply with these or other financial covenants in those arrangements, an event of default may result, which, if not cured or waived, could require us to immediately repay or refinance our indebtedness. Moreover, covenant violations could also subject us to higher interest and financing costs on our debt obligations and our credit ratings could be adversely affected. • In the event of a default under one or more of our debt arrangements, we may be forced to pursue alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling core assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurance that any of these strategies could be effectuated on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that sufficient funds could be obtained to make required debt service payments. Additionally, a debt restructuring could subject us to higher interest and financing costs and our credit ratings could be adversely affected. • Notwithstanding our interest rate swap contract, which is described at Note 2(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we could be exposed to financial risk, including higher interest and financing costs, in the event of nonperformance by one or more of the counterparties to such contract. • We are required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which may reduce the amount of discretionary funds available for our other operational needs and growth objectives. • Because of the need for increased cash flow to service our debt arrangements, we may be more vulnerable to a decline in our business, changes in the health care industry or prolonged weak economic conditions. We are the subject of legal proceedings that, if resolved unfavorably, could have an adverse effect on us. We are a party to various ongoing legal proceedings. The material legal proceedings affecting us are described at Item 3 under “Legal Proceedings” and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our current legal proceedings, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a materially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We may incur liabilities not covered by our insurance or which exceed our insurance limits, or a party to our insurance program could become insolvent or otherwise not meet its contractual obligations. In the ordinary course of business, our subsidiary hospitals are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits and other legal actions. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. We self-insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks. Based on our past experience and current actuarial estimates, we believe that our insurance coverage and our self-insurance reserves are sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our subsidiary hospitals and other health care facilities. However, if payments for indemnity claims and related expenses exceed our estimates or if payments are required to be made by us that are not covered by insurance, our business could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Also, one or more of the unrelated insurance and reinsurance companies that provide us coverage could become insolvent or otherwise be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our facilities are heavily concentrated in Florida and Mississippi, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic and competitive changes in those states, as well as the harmful effects of hurricanes and other severe weather activity in such states. As of December 31, 2010, we operated 59 hospitals, including 32 in Florida and Mississippi. Our home office is also located in Florida. Such geographic concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions in those states. Any material changes in those factors in Florida or Mississippi could have a disproportionate effect on our business and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Moreover, regions in and around the Gulf of Mexico commonly experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. As a result, certain of our health care facilities, especially those in Florida and Mississippi, and our home office are susceptible to physical damage and business interruption from an active hurricane season or a single severe storm. Moreover, global climate change could increase the intensity of individual hurricanes or the number of hurricanes that occur each year. Even if our facilities are not directly damaged, we may experience considerable disruptions in our operations due to property damage experienced in storm-affected areas by our patients, physicians, payors, vendors and others. Additionally, long-term adverse weather conditions, whether caused by global climate change or otherwise, could cause an outmigration of people from the communities where our hospitals are located. If any of the circumstances described above occurred, there could be a harmful effect on our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected. The failure of certain employers or the closure of certain facilities could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals and harm our business. The economies in the non-urban communities where our hospitals operate are often dependant on a small number of large employers. Those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. The failure of one or more large employers or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions. However, we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals and other ancillary health care businesses that meet our target criteria. We may also have difficulty acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny and other restrictions. Acquisitions of general acute care hospitals and other ancillary health care businesses in non-urban markets are part of our overall growth strategy. We face competition for potential acquisition targets from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. Additionally, many states have enacted, or from time to time consider enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from state attorneys general, advance notification and community involvement. Moreover, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise broad discretionary authority over such transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide increased regulatory review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction where a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential buyers could make it more difficult for us to acquire hospitals and other ancillary health care businesses, increase our acquisition costs and/or make it difficult for us to complete acquisitions that otherwise meet our target criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. The Health Care Reform Act restricts our ability to enter into new joint ventures with physicians and subjects our existing joint ventures to substantial limitations. Because these joint ventures were an important part of our growth strategy prior to the enactment of the Health Care Form Act, the new restrictions may have an adverse effect on our business. At a number of our hospitals, we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of the facility. Such arrangements were entered into under a provision of the Stark law that allowed physicians to invest in an entire hospital, such provision is commonly referred to as the “whole hospital” exception. The Health Care Reform Act changed the whole hospital exception such that existing physician investments in a whole hospital are only permitted to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements. However, physicians are now prohibited from increasing their aggregate ownership percentage in any grandfathered joint venture hospital and/or entering into new hospital joint ventures. Additionally, the Health Care Reform Act restricts the ability of existing physician-owned hospitals to expand the number of operating rooms, procedure rooms and licensed beds that they operate. Prior to the passage of the Health Care Reform Act, joint ventures with physician partners had been an important component of our growth strategy. Our inability to enter into future hospital joint ventures with physicians may slow our strategic growth plans. Moreover, we may be unable to expand the services at our affected hospitals and/or effectively compete in certain markets if the Health Care Reform Act or other laws and regulations materially restrict of our grandfathered joint venture hospitals from increasing their operating rooms, procedure rooms and licensed beds, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations. Prior to their acquisition, most of the hospitals we acquire were experiencing operating losses or had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate. We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems at those hospitals. Integrating a new hospital can be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. Acquired hospitals require transitions from, and the integration of, operations, personnel and information systems. If we are unable to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively and timely integrate their operations, our results of operations could be harmed. The availability of approved Medicare and Medicaid provider numbers may be delayed following our acquisition of a hospital. Following an acquisition, we generally seek approval to use the predecessor hospital’s provider numbers for Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain the necessary approvals to use such provider numbers on a timely basis, our receipt of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement could be delayed. Such delays could temporarily harm our cash flows. If we acquire hospitals or other ancillary health care businesses with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Hospitals and other ancillary health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers’ compensation liabilities, tax liabilities and liabilities for unacceptable business practices. Although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition activities of the hospitals and other health care facilities that we acquire. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. Other hospitals and freestanding outpatient facilities provide services similar to ours, which may raise the level of competition we face and adversely affect our results of operations. The health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers has intensified in recent years. In some of the geographic areas where we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals and other health care facilities. Some of those competitor hospitals are owned by government agencies and supported by tax revenue and others are owned by not-for-profit corporations and may be supported, in part, by endowments and charitable contributions. Such support is not available to our hospitals. In some cases, our competitors may be a significant distance away from our facilities; however, patients in our markets may migrate, may be referred by local physicians or may be required by their health plan to travel to these hospitals for care. Furthermore, some of our competitors may be better equipped than us and can offer a broader range of services than we do. Additionally, outpatient treatment and diagnostic imaging facilities, outpatient surgical centers, specialized care providers (e.g., oncology, physical therapy, etc.) and freestanding ambulatory surgical centers (each of which may have physician ownership interests) have increased in number and accessibility in recent years. This broader selection of health care facilities in the communities that we serve has challenged our market share. If our hospitals and other health care facilities are not able to effectively attract patients, our business and results of operations could be harmed. If we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. In recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. CMS publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the Medicare program. Federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. Additionally, the Health Care Reform Act requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. If any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. This circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. Physicians make admitting and other decisions regarding the appropriate course of patient treatment, which, in turn, affect hospital revenue. Therefore, the success of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on their medical staffs, the admitting practices of those physicians and continued good relations with such physicians. Many of the physicians working at our hospitals are not our employees and, in a number of the markets that we serve, they have admitting privileges at hospitals other than our own. If we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet physicians’ needs, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, we could find it difficult to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities where our hospitals are located. An inability to recruit physicians to those communities or the loss of physicians in those communities could make it difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby harm our business and results of operations. On a national level, a shortage of physicians is being discussed as a possible unintended consequence of the Health Care Reform Act. The millions of uninsured individuals who will obtain insurance under the new law will eventually be in need of primary care and other physicians, whose numbers may not increase proportionately. In the future, this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain quality physicians or require us to hire expensive temporary and per diem personnel. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. The technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. To compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. If our hospitals do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. Our hospitals face competition for medical support staff, including nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and other personnel, which may increase our labor costs and adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on our experienced medical support personnel, including nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, seasoned local hospital management and other medical personnel. We compete with other health care providers to recruit and retain these health care professionals. On a national level, a shortage of nurses and certain other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue for a number of health care providers. In the future, this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain such personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary and per diem personnel. Additionally, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. Certain proposed changes in federal labor laws, such as the Employee Free Choice Act, could increase the likelihood of unionization at our facilities. If our wages and related expenses rise, we may not be able to correspondingly increase our reimbursement rates. Our inability to recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or our inability to modulate labor costs could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. We depend heavily on key management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and the efforts, ability and experience of key members of our local hospital management teams. We do not maintain employment agreements with our management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or a significant portion of our local hospital management teams could significantly weaken our ability to efficiently deliver health care services, which could harm our business. Our business could be harmed by a failure of our proprietary information technology system. The performance of our proprietary management information system, known as the Pulse System®, is critical to our business operations. Any failure that causes a material interruption in the availability of the Pulse System® could adversely affect our operations or delay our cash collections. Although we have implemented antivirus, network security and disaster recovery measures, our servers could become vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, disruptions from unauthorized tampering and hurricane-related failures. Any of these circumstances could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or a general lack of availability of the Pulse System®, each of which could harm our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be harmed. As required by the portion of the Economic Stimulus Act commonly referred to as “HITECH,” HHS is in the process of developing and implementing an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record technology. HHS intends to use the Provider Enrollment, Chain and Ownership System, or PECOS, to verify Medicare enrollment prior to making electronic health record incentive program payments. If our hospitals or physicians are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, including having an enrollment record in PECOS, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing an electronic health record system. Further, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare. Any failure by us to effectively implement an electronic health record system in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 