ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: The following information sets forth material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere as discussed in the introduction to Part I above. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present material risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations. We are solely dependent on the success of Feraheme/Rienso. We currently derive and expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of Feraheme/Rienso by us in the U.S. and by our licensees, including Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Takeda, outside of the U.S. and, therefore, our ability to become profitable is solely dependent on our and our licensees' successful commercialization and development of Feraheme/Rienso. Accordingly, if we are unable to generate sufficient revenues from sales of Feraheme/Rienso, or from milestone payments and royalties we may receive related to Feraheme/Rienso, we may never be profitable, our financial condition will be materially adversely affected, and our business prospects will be limited. We intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to the development and commercialization of Feraheme/Rienso. However, we or Takeda may not be successful in our efforts to successfully commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in its current chronic kidney disease, or CKD, indication or to expand the approved indication of Feraheme/Rienso to include additional indications. Although we filed a supplemental New Drug Application, or sNDA, in the U.S. for our global registration program for Feraheme in patients with iron deficiency anemia, or IDA, who had failed to or could not use oral iron, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, may not accept or approve our sNDA, or may require that we narrow the scope of our proposed indication. In addition, we expect that Takeda will file a Type II Variation, which is the European Union, or EU, equivalent of a U.S. sNDA, with the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, in 2013 seeking marketing approval for Rienso for the treatment of IDA in adult patients. However, we have no control over Takeda's process, timeline or interactions 28 Table of Contents with the European regulatory agencies, Takeda may not be successful in filing a Type II Variation in a timely manner, or at all, and we cannot be assured that the EMA will accept and approve the filing. We are not currently conducting or sponsoring research to expand our product development pipeline beyond Feraheme. Therefore, our revenues and operations will not be as diversified as some of our competitors which have multiple products or product candidates. Any failure by us or Takeda to gain marketing approval for Feraheme/Rienso for the treatment of IDA regardless of the underlying cause could limit long-term shareholder value and adversely affect the future prospects of our business. Competitors could file applications seeking a path to U.S. approval of a generic ferumoxytol. Under Sections 505(c)(3)(E)(ii) and 505(j)(5)(F)(ii) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act, as amended by The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, as amended, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, a new chemical entity, or NCE, that is granted regulatory approval may be eligible for five years of marketing exclusivity in the U.S. following regulatory approval. A drug can be classified as an NCE if the FDA has not previously approved any other drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance. The FDA previously determined that ferumoxytol did not qualify as an NCE and instead granted Feraheme a three-year "new use" market exclusivity, which expired in June 2012. In March 2010 and December 2012, we formally requested that the FDA reconsider its determination with respect to Feraheme's NCE status. The FDA may deny our request for reconsideration of NCE status for Feraheme, in which case Feraheme may be subjected to early generic competition. NCE status, if granted, would preclude approval during the exclusivity period of certain applications made under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDC Act, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act, or a Section 505(b)(2) new drug application, or NDA, and abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, submitted by another company for another version of the subject drug; however, under governing law an application may be submitted four years after approval of the subject drug (even with a five year exclusivity period prohibiting approval) if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement pursuant to Paragraph IV of the Hatch-Waxman Act, or the "Paragraph IV" certification procedure. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge the applicability of Orange Book-listed patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue. If we are not able to gain or exploit marketing exclusivity beyond the initial three year exclusivity period that expired in June 2012, we may face significant future competitive threats to our commercialization of Feraheme from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives through the submission of Section 505(b)(2) NDAs and ANDAs. Further, even if Feraheme is granted NCE status and we are able to gain marketing exclusivity until June 2014, another company could challenge that decision and seek to overturn the FDA's determination. Although costly, another company could also gain such marketing exclusivity under the provisions of the FDC Act, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act, if such company can, under certain circumstances, complete a human clinical trial process and obtain regulatory approval of its product. In addition, in December 2012, the FDA published draft guidance regarding new draft product-specific bioequivalence for drug products containing ferumoxytol. The FDA generally publishes product-specific bioequivalence guidance after it has received an inquiry from a generic drug manufacturer about submitting an ANDA for the product in question; thus, it is possible that a generic drug manufacturer has approached the FDA requesting guidance about submitting an ANDA for ferumoxytol, the active ingredient in Feraheme, and that such an ANDA may be filed in the near future. Because the FDA may deny our request for reconsideration of NCE status for Feraheme and because the published bioequivalence guidance could encourage a generic entrant seeking a path to approval of a generic ferumoxytol to file an ANDA, we could face generic competition in the near-term or have to engage in extensive litigation with a generic competitor to protect our patent rights, either 29 Table of Contents of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Companies that manufacture generic products typically invest far fewer resources in research and development than the manufacturers of branded products and can therefore price their products significantly lower than those branded products already on the market. Therefore, competition from generic intravenous, or IV, iron products could limit our U.S. sales and any royalties we may receive from Takeda, which would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are completely dependent on third parties to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso and any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the Feraheme/Rienso manufacturing process, including our transition to alternative source manufacturing facilities, could increase our costs, or adversely affect our profitability and future business prospects. In the third quarter of 2012, we ceased our manufacturing operations at our Cambridge, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. Consequently, we currently rely solely on our third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso for our commercial and clinical use in the U.S., the EU and Switzerland. We do not currently have an alternative manufacturer for our Feraheme/Rienso drug substance and finished drug product and we may not be able to enter into agreements with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations and other regulatory requirements on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Prior to ceasing our manufacturing operations in 2012, we manufactured Feraheme drug substance and drug product for use in the Canadian market at our Cambridge facility. Although we and Takeda are working to obtain regulatory approval of the manufacturing facilities at our current third-party contract manufacturers to produce Feraheme for sale in Canada, we do not currently have manufacturing facilities for this geography. Our ability to have Feraheme/Rienso manufactured in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs to meet our commercial demand and clinical development needs is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our third-party contract manufacturing facilities. Any difficulties, disruptions or delays in the Feraheme/Rienso manufacturing process could result in product defects or shipment delays, recall or withdrawal of product previously shipped for commercial or clinical purposes, inventory write-offs or the inability to meet commercial demand for Feraheme/Rienso in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our current third-party manufacturer does not manufacture for us exclusively and may exhaust some or all of its resources meeting the demand of other customers. Insufficient manufacturing capacity due to scheduling conflicts at our third-party manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of Feraheme/Rienso to meet our demand forecasts or any potential manufacturing delays resulting from our efforts to gain regulatory approval of a new assay for the production of Rienso for sale in the EU, could result in our inability to meet our commercial demand for Feraheme/Rienso. In addition, the transition of the manufacturing processes to third-party contract manufacturers and the oversight of such third parties could take a significant amount of time and may increase the risk of certain problems, including cost overruns, process reproducibility, stability issues, the inability to deliver required quantities of product that conform to specifications in a timely manner, or the inability to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso in accordance with cGMP. If we are unable to have Feraheme/Rienso manufactured on a timely or sufficient basis because of these or other factors, we may not be able to meet commercial demand or our clinical development needs for Feraheme/Rienso or may not be able to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso in a cost-effective manner, particularly in light of the fixed price at which we are required to supply Feraheme/Rienso to Takeda under our License, Development and Commercialization Agreement, as most recently amended in June 2012, or the Amended Takeda Agreement. As a result, we may lose sales, fail to generate increased revenues, suffer regulatory setbacks and/or we may lose money on our supply of Feraheme/Rienso to Takeda, any of which could have an adverse impact on our potential profitability and future business prospects. 30 Table of Contents Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise with respect to Feraheme/Rienso, which could result in restrictions in the Feraheme/Rienso label, recalls, withdrawal of Feraheme/Rienso from the market, an adverse impact on Feraheme/Rienso sales, or our need to alter or terminate current or future Feraheme development programs, any of which would adversely impact our future business prospects. Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise with respect to Feraheme/Rienso, including an increase in the severity or frequency of known problems or the discovery of previously unknown problems, and may result in a variety of adverse regulatory actions. In the U.S., under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, the FDA has broad authority to force drug manufacturers to take any number of actions if safety or drug interaction problems arise, including, but not limited to the following: •Requiring manufacturers to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess known risks or signals of serious risks, or to identify unexpected serious risks; •Mandating labeling changes to a product based on new safety information; or •Requiring manufacturers to implement a Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategy where necessary to assure safe use of the drug. Similar laws and regulations exist in countries outside of the U.S. In addition, previously unknown safety or drug interaction problems could result in product recalls, restrictions on the product's permissible uses, or withdrawal of the product from the U.S. and/or foreign markets. For example, in November 2010, following discussions with the FDA, we revised the Feraheme package insert, which includes essential information regarding the FDA-approved use of Feraheme, including, among other things, the approved indication, side effects, and dosage instructions, to include bolded warnings and precautions that describe events that have been reported during post-marketing review after Feraheme administration, including life-threatening hypersensitivity reactions and clinically significant hypotension. We directly alerted healthcare providers of the changes to the Feraheme package insert. During June 2011, we made further changes to the Feraheme package insert based on additional post-marketing data. These or any future changes to the Feraheme package insert could adversely impact our or Takeda's ability to successfully compete in the IV iron market and could have an adverse impact on potential sales of Feraheme and our future business prospects. The data submitted to both the FDA as part of our NDA and to the EMA as part of the Marketing Authorization Application for Feraheme/Rienso in the CKD indication was obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. New safety or drug interaction issues may arise as Feraheme/Rienso is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients, some of whom may be taking numerous other medicines or by patients with additional underlying health problems. In addition, as we conduct and complete other clinical trials for Feraheme, new safety issues may be identified which could negatively impact our ability to successfully complete these studies, the use and/or regulatory status of Feraheme/Rienso for the treatment of IDA in patients with CKD in the U.S., EU or other territories, and the prospects for approval of future sNDAs, such as our December 2012 sNDA submission for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA regardless of the underlying cause. For example, the FDA may determine that our sNDA for our IDA global registrational program does not establish a sufficiently acceptable safety profile for the approval of a broader Feraheme label. As more data become available and an increased number of patients are treated with Feraheme/Rienso, new safety or drug interaction issues may arise and require us to, among other things, provide additional warnings and/or restrictions on the Feraheme/Rienso package insert, including a boxed warning in the U.S. or similar warnings outside of the U.S., directly alert healthcare providers of new safety information, narrow our approved indications, alter or terminate current or future trials for additional uses of Feraheme, or even remove Feraheme/Rienso from the market, any of which could 31 Table of Contents have a significant adverse impact on potential sales of Feraheme/Rienso or require us to expend significant additional funds. Our and Takeda's ability to grow revenues from sales of Feraheme/Rienso could be limited if we or Takeda do not obtain approval, or if we or Takeda experience significant delays in our or Takeda's efforts to obtain approval to market and sell Feraheme/Rienso for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients. In December 2012, we submitted a sNDA to the FDA for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients. In addition, we expect that Takeda will file a Type II Variation, which is the EU equivalent of a U.S. sNDA, with the EMA in 2013 seeking marketing approval for Feraheme/Rienso for the treatment of IDA in adult patients. Before applying for regulatory approval in the U.S. or foreign countries for the commercial marketing and sale of Feraheme/Rienso for the broad IDA indication, we have to demonstrate, through extensive human clinical trials, that Feraheme/Rienso is safe and effective for use in this broader patient population. Conducting these and other clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires adherence to a wide range of regulatory requirements. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that the results of our recently completed clinical trials are insufficient for approval or that Feraheme/Rienso is not effective or safe in indications other than IDA in adult patients with CKD. For example, in our Phase III clinical trial in the broader patient population, Feraheme-treated patients experienced a 0.6% rate of related serious adverse events, or SAEs, as compared to a 0.2% rate of related SAEs from our current Feraheme label for treatment of IDA patients with CKD. Clinical and other data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA or EMA approval for their products. There is no guarantee that the FDA or EMA will determine that the results of our clinical trials in our global registrational program for Feraheme/Rienso in a broad range of patients with IDA will adequately demonstrate that Feraheme/Rienso is safe and effective in such a patient population to grant approval. The FDA or EMA could also determine that our clinical trials and/or our manufacturing processes were not properly designed, were not conducted in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, or were otherwise not properly managed. In addition, under the FDA's current good clinical practices regulations, or cGCP, we are responsible for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA may conduct inspections of clinical investigator sites which are involved in our clinical development programs to ensure their compliance with cGCP regulations. If the FDA determines that we, our clinical research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may disqualify certain data generated from those sites or require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing application, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain marketing approval in the U.S. for Feraheme/Rienso in the broad IDA indication. Any such deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of our clinical development programs could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience significant delays or prevent us from obtaining marketing approval for Feraheme/Rienso for the broad IDA indication. In addition, any failure by us or Takeda to obtain approval for the broad IDA indication could adversely affect the commercialization of Feraheme/Rienso in its current indication. If, for any of these or other reasons, we or Takeda do not obtain approval, or if we or Takeda experience significant delays in our or Takeda's efforts to obtain approval to market and sell Feraheme/Rienso for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients, our cash position, our ability to increase revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects of our business could be materially adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to expand our product portfolio by entering into business development transactions, such as in-licensing arrangements, acquisitions, or collaborations or if such arrangements are entered into they could disrupt our business, decrease our profitability, result in dilution to our stockholders or cause us to incur debt or significant additional expense. As part of our business strategy to expand our product portfolio and achieve profitability, we are seeking to acquire or in-license other products that we believe would be complementary to our existing business. We have limited experience with respect to these business development activities and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or complete any such transaction in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated financial benefits of any such transaction. We may not be successful in acquiring or in-licensing a product or product candidate that will provide us with commercial, development and/or financial synergies with Feraheme and our current organization such that we will be able to eliminate expenses either from our existing operations or from the cost structure of the acquired product. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements or acquisition agreements may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for these arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. Further, any such strategic transactions by us could result in large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could adversely impact our operating results. Management of a license arrangement, collaboration, or other strategic arrangement and/or integration of an acquired asset or company may also disrupt our ongoing business, require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business and our U.S. commercialization of Feraheme. In addition, to finance any such strategic transactions, we may choose to issue shares of our common or preferred stock as consideration, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings, and such additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to successfully obtain rights to suitable products or if any acquisition or in-license arrangement we make is not successful, our business, financial condition and prospects for growth could suffer. The success of Feraheme in the U.S. depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks and copyrights in the conduct of our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications. The breadth of the claims obtained in our patents may not provide sufficient protection for our technology. The degree of protection afforded by patents for proprietary or licensed technologies or for future discoveries may not be adequate to preserve our ability to protect or commercially exploit those technologies or discoveries. The patents issued to us may provide us with little or no competitive advantage. In addition, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. Our U.S. ferumoxytol patents are currently scheduled to expire in 2020. These and any other patents issued to us may be contested or invalidated. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. We may become a party to patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference and reexamination proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 33 Table of Contents In addition, claims of infringement or violation of the proprietary rights of others may be asserted against us. If we are required to defend against such claims or to protect our own proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial financial and business costs, including the business cost attributable to the resulting distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could prevent us from marketing and selling Feraheme, increase the risk that a generic version of Feraheme could enter the market to compete with Feraheme, limit our development and commercialization of Feraheme, or otherwise harm our competitive position and result in additional significant costs. In addition, any successful claim of infringement asserted against us could subject us to monetary damages or an injunction, preventing us from making or selling Feraheme. We also may be required to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Frequently, the unpredictable nature and significant costs of patent litigation leads the parties to settle to remove this uncertainty. Settlement agreements between branded companies and generic applicants may allow, among other things, a generic product to enter the market prior to the expiration of any or all of the applicable patents covering the branded product, either through the introduction of an authorized generic or by providing a license to the applicant for the patents in suit. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate licensees, collaborators, contract manufacturers, employees and consultants. These agreements, however, may be breached. We may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches, and our trade secrets might otherwise become known or might be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that an equivalent product will not be marketed in competition with Feraheme, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. Our inability to protect Feraheme through our patents and other intellectual property rights prior to their expiration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. The success of Feraheme/Rienso abroad depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the laws of foreign countries may not provide the same level of protection as do the laws of the U.S. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. and therefore, in addition to similar risks to those describe above under the heading "The success of Feraheme in the U.S. depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology" our intellectual property rights may be subject to increased risk abroad, including opposition proceedings before the patent offices for other countries, such as the European Patent Office, or the EPO, or similar adversarial proceedings, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to Feraheme/Rienso. For example, in July 2010, Sandoz GmbH, or Sandoz, filed with the EPO an opposition to one of our previously issued patents which covers ferumoxytol in the EU. In October 2012, at an oral hearing, the Opposition Division of the EPO revoked our European ferumoxytol patent. In December 2012, our notice of appeal was recorded with the EPO. The appeals process is costly and time-consuming and if it results in an unfavorable outcome to us, it could result in a loss of proprietary rights in the EU and may allow Sandoz or other companies to use our proprietary technology without a license from us, which may also result in a loss of future royalty or milestone payments to us, as well as the possibility that Takeda may determine that the terms of our agreement are no longer viable. We cannot predict the outcome of our appeal of the EPO decision. This or any future patent interference proceedings involving our patents may result in substantial costs to us, distract our management from day-to-day business operations and responsibilities, prevent us or Takeda from marketing and selling Feraheme/Rienso or increase the risk that a generic version of Feraheme/Rienso could enter the market to compete with Feraheme/Rienso. In countries where we do not have or have not applied for patents for ferumoxytol, such as in China, where we license certain development 34 Table of Contents and commercial rights to Feraheme to 3SBio, Inc., we may be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where we have patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our proprietary technology. Any such limitation on our intellectual property rights would cause substantial harm to our competitive position and to our ability to develop and commercialize Feraheme/Rienso. Our inability to protect Feraheme/Rienso through our patents and other intellectual property rights in any territory prior to their expiration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries is intense. If we fail to compete effectively, our business and market position will suffer. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We and Takeda compete in the marketing and sale of Feraheme/Rienso and many of our competitors are large, well-known pharmaceutical companies. One or more of our competitors may benefit from significantly greater financial, sales and marketing capabilities, greater technological or competitive advantages, and other resources. Our competitors may develop products that are more widely accepted than ours and may receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely affects our product development or business. The iron replacement therapy market is highly sensitive to several factors including, but not limited to the following: •the actual and perceived safety and efficacy profile of the available products; •the ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage and reimbursement rates and terms; •price competitiveness; and •product characteristics such as convenience of administration and dosing regimens. The introduction by our competitors of alternatives to Feraheme/Rienso that would be, or are perceived to be, more efficacious, safer, cheaper, easier to administer, or more favorable insurance coverage or reimbursement could reduce our revenues and the value of our product development efforts. Feraheme/Rienso may not receive the same level of market acceptance as competing iron replacement therapy products, in part because most of these products have been on the market longer and are currently widely used by physicians in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, certain of the IV iron products that we compete with are approved for the treatment of IDA in a broader group of patients than Feraheme/Rienso. We or Takeda may not be able to convince physicians and other healthcare providers or payers to switch from using the other IV iron therapeutic products to Feraheme/Rienso. If we or Takeda are not able to differentiate Feraheme/Rienso from other marketed IV iron products, our ability to maintain a premium price, our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability, and our long-term business prospects could be adversely affected. Feraheme currently competes with several IV iron replacement therapies in the U.S., If these or other iron replacement products are approved for marketing and sale in the U.S. or are approved for a broader IDA indication than Feraheme, our efforts to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. and our ability to generate additional revenues and achieve profitability could be adversely affected. Feraheme/Rienso also competes with a number of branded IV iron replacement and certain other iron dextran and iron sucrose products outside of the U.S. If Takeda is unable to convince physicians and other healthcare providers to switch from using the competing IV iron products to Feraheme/Rienso, our ability to generate revenues from royalties we may receive from Takeda will be limited and our operating results will be negatively affected. In addition, all other IV iron products currently 35 Table of Contents approved and marketed and sold in the EU are approved for marketing to a broader group of patients with IDA. Feraheme/Rienso was approved only for use in adult CKD patients, which could put Feraheme/Rienso at a competitive disadvantage unless and until it receives approval for a broader indication outside of the U.S. Feraheme/Rienso may not be widely adopted by physicians, hospitals, patients, or healthcare payors, which would adversely impact our potential profitability and future business prospects. The commercial success of Feraheme/Rienso in the U.S. and in other territories depends upon its level of market adoption by physicians, hospitals, patients, and healthcare payors, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. If Feraheme/Rienso does not achieve or maintain an adequate level of market adoption for any reason, our potential profitability and our future business prospects will be severely adversely impacted. Feraheme/Rienso represents an alternative to other products and might not be adopted if perceived to be no safer, less safe, no more effective, less effective, no more convenient, or less convenient than currently available products. In addition, the pricing and/or reimbursement rates and terms for Feraheme/Rienso may not be viewed as advantageous to potential prescribers and payors as the pricing and/or reimbursement rates and terms of alternative IV iron products. The degree of market acceptance of Feraheme/Rienso in the U.S. and abroad depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: •Our and Takeda's ability to demonstrate to healthcare providers, particularly hematologists, oncologists, hospitals, nephrologists, and others who may purchase or prescribe Feraheme/Rienso, the clinical efficacy and safety of Feraheme/Rienso as an alternative to currently marketed IV iron products which treat IDA in CKD patients; •Our and Takeda's ability to convince physicians and other healthcare providers to use IV iron, and Feraheme/Rienso in particular, rather than oral iron, which is the current treatment of choice of most physicians for treating IDA in CKD patients; •The actual or perceived safety and efficacy profile of Feraheme/Rienso as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents, particularly if unanticipated adverse reactions to Feraheme/Rienso result in further changes to or restrictions in the Feraheme/Rienso package insert and/or otherwise create safety concerns among potential prescribers; •The relative level of available reimbursement in the U.S. for Feraheme from payors, including government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private payors as compared to the level of available reimbursement for alternative IV iron products; •The relative price and/or level of reimbursement of Feraheme/Rienso outside of the U.S. as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents; •The actual or perceived convenience and ease of administration of Feraheme/Rienso as compared to alternative iron replacement therapeutic agents, including iron administered orally; and •The effectiveness of our and Takeda's commercial organizations and distribution networks in marketing, selling and supplying Feraheme/Rienso. The key component of our U.S. commercialization strategy is to market and sell Feraheme for use in non-dialysis adult CKD patients. The current U.S. non-dialysis CKD market is comprised primarily of three sites of care where a substantial number of CKD patients are treated: hematology and oncology centers, hospitals, and nephrology clinics. IV iron therapeutic products are not currently widely used by certain physicians who treat non-dialysis CKD patients in the U.S., particularly nephrologists, due to safety concerns and the inconvenience and often impracticability of administering IV iron therapeutic products in their offices. It is often difficult to change physicians' existing treatment paradigms even when supportive clinical data is available. In addition, our ability to effectively market 36 Table of Contents and sell Feraheme in the U.S. hospital market depends in part upon our ability to achieve acceptance of Feraheme onto hospital formularies. Since many hospitals and hematology, oncology and nephrology practices are members of GPOs, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective bargaining power of the group, our ability to attract customers in these sites of care also depends in part on our ability to effectively promote Feraheme to and enter into pricing agreements with GPOs. If we are not successful in capturing a significant share of the U.S. non-dialysis CKD market or if we are not successful in securing and maintaining formulary coverage for Feraheme, our potential profitability as well as our long-term business prospects could be adversely affected. We derive a substantial amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers or a decline in revenue from one or more of these customers could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In the U.S., we sell Feraheme primarily to wholesalers and specialty distributors and therefore a significant portion of our revenues is generated by a small number of customers. Four customers accounted for 94% of our total revenues during the year ended December 31, 2012, and three customers accounted for 94% of our accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2012. We pay these wholesalers and specialty distributors a fee for the services that they provide to us. Because our business is concentrated with such a small number of wholesalers and specialty distributors, we could be forced to accept increases in their fees in order to maintain the current distribution networks through which Feraheme is sold. Any increase in fees could have a negative impact on our current and future sales of Feraheme in the U.S. and could have a negative impact on the reimbursement rate an individual physician, hospital or clinic would realize upon using Feraheme. In addition, a significant portion of our U.S. Feraheme sales are generated through a small number of contracts with GPOs. For example, approximately 32% of our end-user demand in the year ended December 31, 2012 was generated by members of a single GPO with which we have contracted. As a result of the significant percentage of our end-user demand being generated by a single GPO, we may be at a disadvantage in future contract or price negotiations with such GPO and that GPO may be able to influence the demand for Feraheme from its members in a particular quarter through communications they make to their customers. In addition, the loss of, material reduction in sales volume to, or a significant adverse change in our relationship with any of our key wholesalers, distributors or GPOs could have a material adverse effect on our revenue in any given period and may result in significant annual or quarterly revenue fluctuations. We depend, to a significant degree, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors for the use of Feraheme/Rienso, and a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could adversely affect our Feraheme/Rienso sales revenues and results of operations. In both the U.S. and foreign markets, our and Takeda's ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme/Rienso is dependent, in significant part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement to end-users from third-party payors for the use of Feraheme/Rienso, including governmental payors, managed care organizations and private health insurers. Reimbursement by third-party payors depends on a number of factors, including the third-party's determination that the product is competitively priced, safe and effective, appropriate for the specific patient, and cost-effective. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and have instituted and continue to institute cost containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products. If these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement for Feraheme/Rienso or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, physicians and other healthcare providers may choose to use alternative IV iron replacement products, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues. 37 Table of Contents In addition, U.S. and many foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of health care for patients. In the U.S., the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the Health Care Reform Act, was enacted in March 2010 and includes certain cost containment measures including an increase to the minimum rebates for products covered by Medicaid programs, the extension of such rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations and the expansion of the 340B Drug Discount Program under the Public Health Service Act. In addition, the heightened focus on the health care industry by the federal government could result in the implementation of significant federal spending cuts, including cuts in Medicare and other health related spending in the near-term, such as a potential 2% across-the-board sequestration of Medicare expenditures. The full impact of these laws on our business is uncertain. In recent years some states have also passed legislation to control the prices of drugs as well as begun a move toward managed care to relieve some of their Medicaid cost burden. While Medicare is the predominant payor for treatment of patients with CKD, Medicare payment policy, in time, can also influence pricing and reimbursement in the non-Medicare markets, as private third-party payors and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting reimbursement methodologies. These and any future changes in government regulation or private third-party payors' reimbursement policies may reduce the extent of reimbursement for Feraheme/Rienso and adversely affect our future operating results. In January 2011, a prospective payment system for dialysis services provided to Medicare beneficiaries who have end-stage renal disease, or ESRD, became effective under which all costs of providing dialysis services are bundled together into a single prospective payment per treatment. This bundled approach to reimbursement has and will likely continue to alter the utilization of physician-administered drugs in the ESRD market as well as put downward pressure on the prices pharmaceutical companies can charge ESRD facilities for such drugs, particularly where alternative products are available. In the U.S., Feraheme is sold at a price that is substantially higher than alternative IV iron products in the dialysis setting, and as a result, the demand for Feraheme in the dialysis setting has largely disappeared. In addition, it is also possible that this "bundled" approach may be applied to specific disease states other than ESRD. For example, one large insurer in the U.S has attempted to bundle certain costs related to the treatment of cancer patients. Further changes in the Medicare reimbursement rate, which result in lower payment rates from payors, including Medicare payors, would further limit our ability to successfully market and sell Feraheme in the U.S. In addition, in the U.S. hospital in-patient setting, Feraheme is reimbursed by Medicare under a diagnosis-related group payment system, which provides a per discharge reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatments, thereby increasing the incentive for a hospital to limit or control expenditures. As a result, Feraheme has not been nor do we expect it to be broadly used in the hospital in-patient setting. In countries outside of the U.S., market acceptance may also depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within existing healthcare payment systems. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside of the U.S., the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payor of healthcare costs of patients and therefore enjoys significant market power. Some foreign countries also set prices for pharmaceutical products as part of the regulatory process, and we cannot guarantee that the prices set by such governments will be sufficient to generate substantial revenues or allow sales of Feraheme/Rienso to be profitable in those countries. Any such limitations on the reimbursement for Feraheme/Rienso in countries outside of the U.S. would have an adverse impact on Takeda's ability to generate product sales of Feraheme/Rienso in such territories, which would, in turn, limit the amount of royalties we may receive under our amended agreement with Takeda. 38 Table of Contents We are substantially dependent upon our collaboration with Takeda to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in certain regions outside of the U.S., including Canada, Switzerland and the EU, and if Takeda fails to successfully fulfill its obligations, or is ineffective in its commercialization of Feraheme/Rienso in the licensed territories, or if our collaboration is terminated, our plans to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso outside of the U.S. may be adversely affected. In March 2010, we entered into our initial agreement with Takeda, which was amended in June 2012, under which we granted exclusive rights to Takeda to develop and commercialize Feraheme/Rienso as a therapeutic agent in Europe, certain Asia-Pacific countries (excluding Japan, China and Taiwan), Canada, India and Turkey. We are highly dependent on Takeda for certain regulatory filings outside of the U.S. with respect to Feraheme/Rienso and the commercialization of Feraheme/Rienso outside of the U.S., including in Canada, Switzerland and the EU. If Takeda fails to perform its obligations under the Amended Takeda Agreement or is ineffective in its commercialization of Feraheme/Rienso in the agreed-upon territories, or if we fail to effectively manage our relationship with Takeda, our ability to and the extent to which we obtain regulatory approvals for Feraheme/Rienso and our Feraheme/Rienso commercialization efforts outside of the U.S. would be significantly harmed, which would have an adverse effect on milestone payments and royalties we may receive under the Amended Takeda Agreement. Further, if we fail to fulfill certain of our obligations under the Amended Takeda Agreement, Takeda has the right to assume the responsibility of clinical development and manufacturing of Feraheme/Rienso in the agreed-upon territories, which would increase the cost of and delay the Feraheme/Rienso development program outside of the U.S. Takeda has the unilateral right to terminate the Amended Takeda Agreement under certain conditions, including without cause. If Takeda terminates the agreement and we chose to continue to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in Takeda's territories, we would be required to either enter into alternative arrangements with third parties to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in Takeda's territories, which we may be unable to do, or to increase our internal infrastructure, both of which would likely result in significant additional expense and the disruption or failure of commercial efforts outside of the U.S. In addition, such a termination would prevent us from receiving the milestone payments and royalties we may receive under the Amended Takeda Agreement. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to operate their manufacturing facilities in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, release specifications and other FDA and equivalent foreign regulations, which could result in a suspension of our contract manufacturers' ability to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso, the loss of Feraheme/Rienso inventory, an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme/Rienso to meet U.S. or foreign demand, or other unanticipated compliance costs. Our third-party contract manufacturing facilities are subject to cGMP regulations enforced by the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory regulations and agencies through periodic inspections to confirm such compliance. Our contract manufacturers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that these manufacturing facilities meet applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to maintain ongoing compliance with cGMP or similar regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies could result in, among other things, the issuance of warning letters, fines, the withdrawal or recall of Feraheme/Rienso from the marketplace, total or partial suspension of Feraheme/Rienso production, the loss of Feraheme/Rienso inventory, suspension of the review of any future sNDAs or equivalent foreign filings, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution. A government-mandated recall or a voluntary recall could divert managerial and financial resources, could be difficult and costly to correct, could result in the suspension of sales of Feraheme/Rienso, and could have a severe adverse impact on our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. If any U.S. or foreign regulatory agency inspects any of these manufacturing facilities and determines that they are not in compliance with cGMP or similar regulations or our contract manufacturers otherwise determine that they are not in compliance with these regulations, our contract manufacturers could experience an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme/Rienso to meet U.S. or foreign demand or incur unanticipated compliance expenditures. 39 Table of Contents We have also established certain testing and release specifications with the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies. This release testing must be performed in order to allow the finished product to be used for commercial sale. If our finished product does not meet these release specifications or if the release testing is variable, we may not be able to supply product to meet our projected demand. In addition, variations in the regulatory approval of Feraheme/Rienso in the currently approved territories require that our third-party manufacturers follow different manufacturing processes and analytical testing methods. For example, in late 2012, we produced a batch of Rienso which did not meet our release specifications in the EU. As a result, we are incurring additional costs associated with the development, validation and technology transfer to Takeda of a more accurate assay in order to be able to release this batch and any future batches produced for sale in the EU. This new assay will require review and approval by the EMA. If we are unable to develop, validate, transfer or gain regulatory approval for the new release test, our ability to supply product to the EU will be adversely affected. Such setbacks could have an adverse impact on Feraheme/Rienso sales, our potential profitability and the future prospects of our business. Our inability to obtain raw and other materials used in the manufacture of Feraheme/Rienso could adversely impact our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Feraheme/Rienso, which would have an adverse impact on our business. We and our third-party manufacturers currently purchase certain raw and other materials used to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso from third-party suppliers and at present do not have any long-term supply contracts with these third parties. These third-party suppliers may cease to produce the raw or other materials used in Feraheme/Rienso or otherwise fail to supply these materials to us or our third-party manufacturers or fail to supply sufficient quantities of these materials to us or our third-party manufacturers in a timely manner for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following: •Unexpected demand for or shortage of raw or other materials; •Adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier; •Regulatory requirements or action; •An inability to provide timely scheduling and/or sufficient capacity; •Manufacturing difficulties; •Labor disputes or shortages; or •Import or export problems. If any of our third-party suppliers cease to supply certain raw or other materials to us or our third-party manufacturers for any reason we could be unable to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso in sufficient quantities, on a timely basis, or in a cost-effective manner until we are able to qualify an alternative source. For example, one of the key components in ferumoxytol is produced specifically for us by a third-party supplier and if our third-party supplier is no longer able to supply it to us we will be unable to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso until we are able to identify and qualify an alternative supplier. This or any other interruption in our third-party supply chain could adversely affect our ability to satisfy commercial demand and our clinical development needs for Feraheme/Rienso. The qualification of an alternative source may require repeated testing of the new materials and generate greater expenses to us if materials that we test do not perform in an acceptable manner. In addition, we or our third-party manufacturers sometimes obtain raw or other materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high quality standards imposed on our raw or other materials, we or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to obtain such 40 Table of Contents materials of the quality required to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain raw or other materials from an alternative source, if these raw or other materials are not available in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we would be unable to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso, both for commercial sale and for use in our clinical trials, on a timely and cost-effective basis, which could cause us to lose money. Any such difficulty in obtaining raw or other materials could severely hinder our ability to manufacture Feraheme/Rienso and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues and to achieve profitability. We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. We have a history of significant operating losses, we may not be profitable in the future, and if we do attain profitability, such profitability may not be sustainable. In the past, we have financed our operations primarily from the sale of our equity securities, cash from sales of Feraheme/Rienso, cash generated by our investing activities, and payments from our licensees. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $456.7 million. Our losses were primarily the result of costs incurred in our efforts to manufacture, market and sell Feraheme/Rienso, including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure and marketing and promotion costs, research and development costs, such as costs associated with our clinical trials, and selling, general and administrative costs. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses as we continue to manufacture, market and sell Feraheme as an IV iron replacement therapeutic for use in adult CKD patients in the U.S., and as we further develop and seek marketing approval for Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients. As a result, we will need to generate sufficient revenues in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability. We anticipate that the majority of any revenue we generate in the next twelve months will be from sales of Feraheme/Rienso as an IV iron replacement therapeutic agent for use in adult CKD patients in the U.S. and royalties we may receive with respect to sales of Feraheme/Rienso in Canada and the EU under the Amended Takeda Agreement, which we originally entered into with Takeda in 2010. We have never independently marketed or sold any products prior to Feraheme, and we or Takeda may not be successful in marketing or selling Feraheme/Rienso. If we or Takeda are not successful in marketing and selling Feraheme/Rienso, if revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, or if we are otherwise unable to achieve, maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. We have limited experience independently commercializing a pharmaceutical product, and any failure on our part to effectively execute our Feraheme commercial plans in the U.S. would have an adverse impact on our business. Prior to our commercialization of Feraheme in the U.S., we had never independently marketed or sold a drug product as we had relied on our licensees to market and sell our previously approved products. We have an internal commercial infrastructure to market and sell Feraheme in the U.S., and if we are unsuccessful in maintaining an effective commercial function or experience a high level of employee turnover, then the commercialization of Feraheme could be severely impaired. For example, we reduced our workforce in 2011 as part of an overall corporate restructuring, including certain positions within our commercial function, with further restructuring occurring in 2012. These workforce reductions or any future reductions or departures, could harm our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which could prevent us from successfully commercializing Feraheme in the U.S., impair our ability to maintain sales levels and/or impair our ability to support potential sales growth and sales of Feraheme for any additional indications we may commercialize in the future. Any failure by us to 41 Table of Contents successfully commercialize Feraheme in the U.S. could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues, our ability to achieve profitability, and the future prospects for our business. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so may be disruptive to our operations. Because of the specialized nature of our business, our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified executive, sales, technical operations, managerial, scientific, and medical personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with most of our current senior executives, but such agreements do not guarantee that these executives will remain employed by us for any significant period of time, or at all. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Previously implemented workforce reductions could residually harm our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In addition, any restructuring plans we may initiate in the future may be disruptive to our operations and could harm our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel. For example, cost saving measures may distract management from our core business, harm our reputation, or yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond planned reductions in workforce, increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations, reduced employee productivity and a deterioration of employee morale. Any workforce reductions could also harm our ability to attract and retain qualified executive, sales, technical operations, managerial, scientific, and medical personnel who are critical to our business. Furthermore, because we are currently operating with fewer employees and service providers, any further turnover, whether occurring as part of a restructuring plan or otherwise, could cause significant disruption if we are unable to implement or maintain a sufficient succession plan for certain personnel or departments. Any failure to attract, retain or replace qualified personnel could prevent us from successfully commercializing and developing Feraheme, impair our ability to maintain sales levels and/or support potential sales growth. Moreover, although we believe it is necessary to reduce the cost of our operations to improve our performance, these initiatives may preclude us from making potentially significant expenditures that could improve our competitiveness over the longer term. We cannot guarantee that any cost reduction measures, or other measures we may take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings, or that any cost savings will be unaccompanied by these or other unintended consequences. We have limited experience independently distributing a pharmaceutical product, and our Feraheme/Rienso commercialization plans could suffer if we fail to effectively manage and maintain our supply chain and distribution network. We do not have significant experience in managing and maintaining a supply chain and distribution network, and we are placing substantial reliance on third parties to perform product supply chain services for us. Such services include packaging, warehousing, inventory management, storage and distribution of Feraheme/Rienso. We have contracted with Packaging Coordinators, Inc. (formerly Catalent Pharma Solutions, LLC), or PCI, to provide certain labeling, packaging and storage services for final U.S. and Canadian Feraheme drug product. In addition, we have contracted with Integrated Commercialization Services, Inc., or ICS, to be our exclusive third-party logistics provider to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of Feraheme in the U.S., including services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and customer service call center management. If ICS or PCI are unable to provide uninterrupted supply chain services or labeling, packaging and storage services, respectively, we may incur substantial losses of sales to wholesalers or other purchasers of Feraheme. 42 Table of Contents In addition, the packaging, storage and distribution of Feraheme/Rienso in the U.S. and abroad requires significant coordination among our and Takeda's manufacturing, sales, marketing and finance organizations and multiple third parties including our third-party logistics provider, packaging, labeling and storage provider, distributors, and wholesalers. In most cases, we do not currently have back-up suppliers or service providers to perform these tasks. If any of these third parties experience significant difficulties in their respective processes, fail to maintain compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, fail to meet expected deadlines or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damages at their facilities, our ability to deliver Feraheme/Rienso to meet U.S. or foreign commercial demand could be significantly impaired. The loss of any of our third-party providers, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternate distribution source for end-users in a timely manner, could cause the distribution of Feraheme/Rienso to be delayed or interrupted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties in the conduct of our business, including our clinical trials and manufacturing, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, our commercialization and development plans may be adversely affected. We rely and intend to continue to rely on third parties, including clinical research organizations, third-party manufacturers, third-party logistics providers, packaging and labeling providers, wholesale distributors and certain other important vendors and consultants in the conduct of our business. As a result of the current volatile and unpredictable global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by our third-party contractors or suppliers. For example, our distributors, customers or suppliers may experience difficulty in obtaining the financial resources necessary to purchase inventory or raw or other materials, may begin to maintain lower inventory levels or may become insolvent. If such third parties are unable to adequately satisfy their contractual commitments to us in a timely manner, our business could be severely adversely affected. In addition, we have contracted and plan to continue to contract with certain third parties to provide certain services, including site selection, enrollment, monitoring, data management and other services, in connection with the conduct of our clinical trials and the preparation and filing of our regulatory applications. We have limited experience conducting clinical trials outside the U.S., and, therefore, we are also largely relying on third parties such as clinical research organizations to manage, monitor and carry out these clinical trials. Although we depend heavily on these parties, we do not control them and, therefore, we cannot be assured that these third parties will adequately perform all of their contractual obligations to us. If our third-party service providers cannot adequately fulfill their obligations to us in a timely and satisfactory manner, if the quality and accuracy of our clinical trial data or our regulatory submissions are compromised due to poor quality or failure to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements or if such third parties otherwise fail to adequately discharge their responsibilities or meet deadlines, our development plans and planned regulatory submissions both in and outside of the U.S may be delayed or terminated, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from Feraheme/Rienso sales in additional indications and/or outside of the U.S. Our operating results will likely fluctuate so you should not rely on the results of any single quarter to predict how we will perform over time. Our future operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, some of which we cannot control, including but not limited to: •The magnitude of U.S. Feraheme sales; •The loss of a key customer or GPO; 43 Table of Contents •The impact of any pricing strategies we have implemented or may implement related to Feraheme, including the magnitude of rebates and/or discounts we may offer, or changes in pricing by our competitors or a new entrant into the market; •The introduction of new competitive products in the iron replacement therapeutic market, such as Injectafer®, if approved or generic versions of new or currently available drug therapies; •Any expansion or contraction of the overall size of the IV iron market, which could result from a number of factors including but not limited to changes in treatment guidelines or practices related to IDA; •Any changes to the mix of our business; •Changes in buying patterns and inventory levels of our wholesalers or distributors; •The timing and magnitude of milestone payments, product sales revenues and royalties we may receive from Takeda under the Amended Takeda Agreement; •The initiation or outcome of any material litigation or patent challenges to which we are or become a party and the magnitude of costs associated with such litigation; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with the commercialization of Feraheme in the U.S., including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure and executing our promotional and marketing strategy; •The magnitude of costs incurred in connection with business development activities or business development transactions into which we enter; •Changes in accounting estimates related to reserves on revenue, returns, or other accruals or changes in the timing and availability of government or customer discounts, rebates and incentives; •Changes in the actual or perceived safety or efficacy profile of Feraheme/Rienso, or products that compete with Feraheme/Rienso that could cause customers to increase, reduce or discontinue their use of Feraheme/Rienso; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with commercial-scale manufacturing of Feraheme/Rienso, including costs of raw and other materials and costs associated with maintaining commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and alternative suppliers; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with our ongoing and planned clinical studies of Feraheme/Rienso in connection with our pediatric program, our post-marketing commitments for the EMA and other regulatory agencies, our pursuit of additional indications and our development of Feraheme/Rienso in countries outside of the U.S; •The costs associated with manufacturing batch failures or inventory write-offs due to out-of-specification release testing or ongoing stability testing that results in a batch no longer meeting specifications; •Changes in reimbursement practices and laws and regulations affecting Feraheme/Rienso from federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory authorities, government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; and •The implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or policies. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. 44 Table of Contents In the U.S. there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state legislative initiatives implemented to reform the healthcare system in ways that could adversely impact our business and our ability to sell Feraheme profitably. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the U.S. healthcare system. For example, the Health Care Reform Act contains a number of provisions that significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry and may negatively affect our potential Feraheme revenues. Among other things, the Health Care Reform Act increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, extended the rebate provisions to Medicaid managed care organizations, and expanded the 340B Drug Discount Program under the Public Health Service Act. For example, the percentage of Feraheme business sold to 340B institutions has grown from 5% in 2010 to 14% in 2012. Since these institutions are granted lower prices than those offered to our other customers, any further growth in the 340B business may have a negative impact on our sales price per gram and gross margins. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been added, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare providers and potentially incur additional costs. While we are continuing to evaluate this legislation and its potential impact on our business, this legislation may adversely affect the demand for Feraheme in the U.S. or cause us to incur additional expenses and therefore adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the state level in the U.S. We cannot predict the impact that newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. We expect that there will continue to be a number of U.S. federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls and limit the growth of healthcare costs. These efforts could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting the prices that can be charged for Feraheme or the amount of reimbursement rates and terms available from governmental agencies or third-party payors, limiting the profitability of Feraheme, increasing our rebate liability or limiting the commercial opportunity for Feraheme, including its acceptance by healthcare payors. Wholesaler, distributor and GPO buying patterns and other factors may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and these fluctuations may adversely affect our short-term results. Our results of operations, including, in particular, product sales revenues, may vary from period to period due to a variety of factors, including the buying patterns of our U.S. wholesalers and distributors, which vary from quarter to quarter. In addition, our contracts with GPOs require certain performance from the members of the GPOs such as growth over prior periods or certain market share attainment goals in order to qualify for discounts off the list price of Feraheme and a GPO may be able to influence the demand for Feraheme from its members in a particular quarter through communications they make to their customers. In the event wholesalers and distributors with whom we do business in the U.S. determine to limit their purchases of Feraheme, sales of Feraheme could be adversely affected. For example, in advance of an anticipated price increase or a reduction in expected rebates or discounts, customers may order Feraheme in larger than normal quantities which could cause sales of Feraheme to be lower in subsequent quarters than they would have been otherwise. Further, any changes in purchasing patterns, inventory levels, increases in returns of Feraheme, delays in purchasing products or delays in payment for products by one of our distributors or GPOs could also have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. 45 Table of Contents If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates our critical and other significant estimates and judgments, including among others those associated with revenue recognition related to product sales and collaboration agreements, product sales allowances and accruals, assessing investments for potential other-than-temporary impairment and determining the values of investments, estimates used to measure the fair value of our held for sale assets, accrued expenses, income taxes and equity-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on market data, our observance of trends in our industry, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. If actual results differ from these estimates, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results and the performance of our stock. As part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks, fees and other discounts require subjective and complex judgments due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. For example during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we revised our estimated Medicaid reserve rate, which resulted in a reduction of our estimated Medicaid rebate reserve related to prior Feraheme sales of $0.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively. Further, during the year ended December 31, 2012, we reduced our reserve for product returns by approximately $2.2 million due to a lower than expected actual returns rate since the 2009 launch of Feraheme as well as a reduction in our expected rate of product returns in the future. In addition, to determine the required quantities of Feraheme and the related manufacturing schedule, we also need to make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends, anticipated sales, forecasts from our licensees, including Takeda, and other factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our and Takeda's estimates and the actual amount of product need. For example, the level of our access to wholesaler and distributor inventory levels and sales data in the U.S., which varies based on the wholesaler or distributor, affects our ability to accurately estimate certain reserves included in our financial statements. Any difference between our estimates and the actual amount of product demand could result in unmet demand or excess inventory, each of which would adversely impact our financial results and results of operations. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has ranged between $12.43 and $18.50 in the fifty-two week period through February 15, 2013. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Various factors and events, many of which are beyond our control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Factors which may affect the market price of our common stock include, among others: •Our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in the U.S. and Takeda's ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in territories outside of the U.S.; 46 Table of Contents •The timing and magnitude of Feraheme/Rienso revenue and actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •Changes in or our failure to meet financial estimates published by securities analysts or our own publicly disclosed financial guidance; •Increases or decreases in our operating expenses or our gross margin on Feraheme/Rienso; •Developments in patents or other proprietary rights by or for the benefit of us or our competitors, such as the recent decision by the EPO regarding our European ferumoxytol patent or decisions regarding Feraheme's NCE status or an ANDA filing by a generic entrant; •The availability of reimbursement coverage for Feraheme/Rienso or changes in the reimbursement policies of U.S. or foreign governmental or private payors; •Public announcements of U.S. or foreign regulatory actions with respect to Feraheme/Rienso or products or product candidates of our competitors; •Actual or perceived safety concerns related to Feraheme/Rienso or products or product candidates of our competitors, including any actions taken by U.S. or foreign regulatory authorities in connection with such concerns; •The status or results of clinical trials for Feraheme or products or product candidates of our competitors; •The acquisition, development or regulatory approvals of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; •Cash milestones earned, if any, under the Amended Takeda Agreement; •The initiation or outcome of any material litigation or patent challenges to which we are or may become a party; •Significant collaboration, product or business acquisitions, joint venture or similar agreements by us or our competitors; •Shareholder activism and attempts to disrupt our strategy by activist investors; •General market conditions; and •Sales of large blocks of our common stock. Thus, as a result of events both within and beyond our control, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or lose value rapidly. If securities analysts downgrade our stock, cease coverage of us, or if our operating results do not meet analysts' forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us and our business. Currently, seven financial analysts publish reports about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. In addition, our future operating results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and our stock price could decline significantly if we fail to meet or exceed analysts' forecasts and expectations. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or issue commentary or observations about us or our stock that are perceived by the market as negative, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. In addition, if these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could also cause our stock price to decline. 47 Table of Contents If our operating results do not meet our own publicly disclosed financial guidance our stock price could decline. In 2013, we publicly provided financial guidance, including expected 2013 Feraheme/Rienso product revenue, total revenue, estimated operating expenses, estimated cost of goods sold as a percent of sales, quarterly cash flow trajectory throughout 2013 and estimated year-end cash and cash equivalents balance. If, for any reason, we are unable to realize our expected revenue growth in 2013 and beyond, including as the result of a lower-than-anticipated impact of our 2013 price increases, we may fail to realize our publicly announced revenue and year-end cash and cash equivalents balance guidance. If we fail to realize or if we change or update any element of our publicly disclosed financial guidance or other expectations about our business, our stock price could decline in value. We may need additional capital to achieve our business objectives. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to successfully commercialize and develop Feraheme. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •Our ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme in the U.S. and Takeda's ability to successfully commercialize Feraheme/Rienso in its licensed territories outside of the U.S.; •The magnitude of U.S. Feraheme sales; •The magnitude of Feraheme/Rienso sales and royalties we may receive from Takeda outside of the U.S.; •Our ability to obtain regulatory approval for Feraheme/Rienso to treat IDA regardless of the underlying cause both within the U.S. and outside of the U.S., particularly in the EU; •The success, costs and structure of any business or corporate development initiatives to bring additional products into our portfolio; •The outcome of and costs associated with any material litigation or patent challenges to which we are or may become a party; •Our ability to achieve the various milestones and receive the associated payments under the Amended Takeda Agreement; •Costs associated with the U.S. commercialization of Feraheme, including costs associated with maintaining our commercial infrastructure, executing our promotional and marketing strategy for Feraheme, and conducting our required pediatric clinical studies and any post-marketing clinical studies; •The timing and magnitude of costs associated with qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and alternative suppliers; •Costs associated with our development of Feraheme for the treatment of IDA in a broad range of patients in the U.S.; •Our ability to maintain successful collaborations with our licensees and/or to enter into additional alternative strategic relationships, if necessary; and •Our ability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us, if necessary. We estimate that our cash resources as of December 31, 2012, combined with cash we currently expect to receive from sales of Feraheme/Rienso, from earnings on our investments, and potential royalty payments we may receive from Takeda will be sufficient to finance our currently planned 48 Table of Contents operations for at least the next twelve months. We may require additional funds or need to establish additional alternative strategic arrangements to execute a business development transaction. We may at any time seek funding through additional arrangements with collaborators through public or private equity or debt financings. We may not be able to obtain financing or to secure alternative strategic arrangements on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. Any additional equity financings or alternative strategic arrangements would be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, the terms of any debt financing could greatly restrict our ability to raise additional capital and may provide rights and preferences to the investors in any such financing which are senior to those of, and not available to, current stockholders. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us when needed could force us to dramatically reduce our expenses and delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our activities and operations, including our commercialization and development activities, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future business prospects. The investment of our cash is subject to risks, which may cause losses or adversely affect the liquidity of these investments and our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2012, we had $46.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $180.8 million in short-term investments. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been and may, in the future, be exacerbated by a U.S. and/or global financial crisis. We may realize losses in the fair value of certain of our investments or a complete loss of these investments if the credit markets tighten, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The condition of the credit markets remains unpredictable. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity with respect to our investments. In addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. Further, as part of our determination of the fair value of our investments, we consider credit ratings provided by independent investment rating agencies as of the valuation date. These ratings are subject to change. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash position, liquidity and overall financial condition. We are subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements that could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of U.S. federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in our expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of future transactions involving our common stock. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, 49 Table of Contents which is generally three years. An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such "ownership change." Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we have estimated would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such net operating losses and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such net operating losses and tax credits and potentially adversely affecting our financial position. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under U.S. governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could pay penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a condition of reimbursement by various U.S. federal and state healthcare programs for Feraheme, we are required to calculate and report certain pricing information to U.S. federal and state healthcare agencies. For example, we are required to provide average selling price information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on a quarterly basis in order to compute Medicare Part B payment rates. Price reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and vary among products and programs. The calculation of average selling price includes a number of inputs from our contracts with wholesalers, specialty distributors, GPOs and other customers. It also requires us to make an assessment of whether these agreements are deemed to be for bona fide services and that the services are deemed to be at fair market value in our industry and for our products. Our processes for estimating amounts due under these governmental pricing programs involve subjective decisions. As a result, our price reporting calculations remain subject to the risk of errors and our methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under the Federal False Claims Act or other laws. In addition, the Health Care Reform Act modified the rules related to certain price reports and expanded the scope of pharmaceutical product sales to which Medicaid rebates apply, among other things. Presently, uncertainty exists as many of the specific determinations necessary to implement this new legislation have yet to be decided and communicated to industry participants. This uncertainty in the interpretation of the legislation increases the chances of an error in price reporting, which could in turn lead to a legal challenge, restatement or investigation. If we become subject to investigations, restatements, or other inquiries concerning our compliance with price reporting laws and regulations, we could be required to pay or be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and/or Takeda are subject to ongoing U.S. and foreign regulatory obligations and oversight of Feraheme/Rienso, and any failure by us to maintain compliance with applicable regulations may result in several adverse consequences including the suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of Feraheme/Rienso, the incurrence of significant additional expense and other limitations on our ability to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso. We and/or Takeda are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and review both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions pertaining to Feraheme/Rienso's manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, marketing, promotion and record keeping. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements or the later discovery of previously unknown problems with Feraheme/Rienso or our third-party contract manufacturing facilities or processes by which we manufacture Feraheme/Rienso may result in restrictions on our ability to manufacture, market or sell Feraheme/Rienso, including its withdrawal from the market. Any such restrictions could result in a decrease in Feraheme/Rienso sales, damage to our reputation or the initiation of lawsuits against us, Takeda, or our third-party contract 50 Table of Contents manufacturers. We and/or Takeda may also be subject to additional sanctions, including but not limited to: •Warning letters; •Civil or criminal penalties; •Suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •Temporary or permanent closing of the facilities of our third-party contract manufacturers; •Requirements to communicate with physicians and other customers about concerns related to actual or potential safety, efficacy, or other issues involving Feraheme/Rienso; •Changes to the Feraheme/Rienso package insert, such as potential limitations on the current dosage and administration of Feraheme/Rienso or IV irons as a class; •Implementation of risk mitigation programs; •Restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing or sale of Feraheme/Rienso; or •Recalls or a refusal by regulators to consider or approve applications for additional indications. Any of the above sanctions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and cause us to incur significant additional expenses. If we or Takeda market or distribute Feraheme/Rienso in a manner that violates federal, state or foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws, marketing disclosure laws or other federal, state or foreign laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements in the U.S. and abroad, we are subject to extensive additional federal, state and foreign healthcare regulation, which includes but is not limited to, the Federal False Claims Act, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and their state analogues, and similar laws in countries outside of the U.S., and government price reporting laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, false or fraudulent claims for reimbursed drugs or services, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug, that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries throughout the world in which we intend to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso through Takeda and our other licensees. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry, but we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations. If we, our representatives, or our licensees, including Takeda, fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us and/or Takeda, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we and/or Takeda market and sell Feraheme/Rienso, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation, or other sanctions. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 51 Table of Contents In recent years, several U.S. states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs or codes of conduct and/or to file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered by additional states and foreign governments. In addition, as part of the Health Care Reform Act, the federal government has enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine Act and related regulations. Beginning in August 2013, manufacturers of drugs are required to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Compliance with these laws is difficult, time consuming and costly, and if we are found to not be in full compliance with these laws, we may face enforcement actions, fines and other penalties, and we could receive adverse publicity which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with any federal, state or foreign laws or regulations governing our industry, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize Feraheme/Rienso, harm or prevent sales of Feraheme/Rienso, or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing Feraheme/Rienso, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. If we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant fines and other liability. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product's approved labeling. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant government fines and other related liability. For example, the U.S. government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The government has also required companies to enter into complex corporate integrity agreements and/or non-prosecution agreements that can impose significant restrictions and other burdens on the affected companies. In addition, incentives exist under applicable U.S. law that encourage employees and physicians to report violations of rules governing promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. These incentives could lead to so called whistleblower lawsuits as part of which such persons seek to collect a portion of moneys allegedly overbilled to government agencies due to, for example, promotion of pharmaceutical products beyond labeled claims. Such lawsuits, whether with or without merit, are typically time consuming and costly to defend. Such suits may also result in related shareholder lawsuits, which are also costly to defend. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. For example, in 2011, MSMB Capital Management LLC, or MSMB Capital, filed a preliminary consent solicitation statement with the SEC seeking to remove and replace most of our then current directors with MSMB Capital's nominees. The review, consideration and response to efforts by activist shareholders may require the expenditure of significant time and resources by us and may be a significant distraction for our management and employees. The impact of activist shareholders' efforts due to these or other factors may undermine our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully defend against the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. 52 Table of Contents If we identify a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, or we experience high turnover of our personnel in our financial reporting functions, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ or other regulatory authorities. An adverse determination in any current or future lawsuits in which we are a defendant, including the class action lawsuit to which we are currently a party, could have a material adverse effect on us. A purported class action complaint was originally filed on March 18, 2010 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, entitled Silverstrand Investments et. al. v. AMAG Pharm., Inc., et. al., Civil Action No. 1:10-CV-10470-NMG, and was amended on September 15, 2010 and on December 17, 2010. The second amended complaint, or SAC, filed on December 17, 2010 alleged that we and our former President and Chief Executive Officer, former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the then members of our Board of Directors, or Board, and certain underwriters in our January 2010 offering of common stock violated certain federal securities laws by making certain alleged false and misleading statements and omissions in a registration statement filed in January 2010. The plaintiff sought unspecified damages on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our common stock pursuant to our common stock offering on or about January 21, 2010. On August 11, 2011, the District Court issued an Opinion and Order dismissing the SAC in its entirety for failure to state a claim upon which relief could be granted. On September 14, 2011, the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, or the Court of Appeals. After briefing was completed by all parties, the Court of Appeals heard oral argument on May 11, 2012, and took the matter under advisement. On February 4, 2013, the Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part the District Court's Opinion and Order, and remanded the case to the District Court. On February 18, 2013, we filed a Petition for Panel Hearing or Rehearing En Banc, asking the Court of Appeals to reconsider its decision. Whether or not the plaintiff's appeal is successful, this type of litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect the operation of our business. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could adversely affect our operations. 53 Table of Contents We may also be the target of similar litigation in the future. Any future litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Though we maintain liability insurance, if any costs or expenses associated with this or any other litigation exceed our insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these costs and expenses directly, which could be substantial. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of Feraheme/Rienso. The administration of Feraheme/Rienso to humans, whether in clinical trials or after approval for commercial use, may expose us to liability claims, whether or not Feraheme/Rienso is actually at fault for causing an injury. As Feraheme/Rienso is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients taking numerous other medicines or by patients with additional underlying health problems, the likelihood of adverse drug reactions or unintended side effects, including death, may increase. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials and commercial use, coverage is expensive, and we may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Product liability claims, whether or not they have merit, could also decrease demand for Feraheme/Rienso, subject us to product recalls or harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs, and divert management's time and attention. Our shareholder rights plan, certain provisions in our charter and by-laws, certain contractual relationships and certain Delaware law provisions could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current members of our Board. In 2009, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, the provisions of which are intended to deter a hostile takeover by making any proposed hostile acquisition of us more expensive and less desirable to a potential acquirer by enabling our stockholders (other than the potential hostile acquiror) to purchase significant amounts of additional shares of our common stock at dilutive prices. The rights issued pursuant to our shareholder rights plan become exercisable generally upon the earlier of 10 days after a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after the announcement by a person or group of an intention to acquire 20% of our outstanding common stock via tender offer or similar transaction. The shareholder rights plan could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices. In addition, certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or takeover attempt of our company by a third-party as well as substantially impede the ability of our stockholders to benefit from a change of control or effect a change in management and our Board. These provisions include: •The ability of our Board to increase or decrease the size of the Board without stockholder approval; •Advance notice requirements for the nomination of candidates for election to our Board and for proposals to be brought before our annual meeting of stockholders; •The authority of our Board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •Non-cumulative voting for directors; and •Limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. 54 Table of Contents As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or Section 203, which prevents us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," which is defined generally as a person that acquires 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our stockholders. In addition to the above factors, an acquisition of our company could be made more difficult by employment agreements we have in place with our executive officers, as well as a company-wide change of control policy, which provide for severance benefits as well as the full acceleration of vesting of any outstanding options or restricted stock units in the event of a change of control and subsequent termination of employment. Further, our Second Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan generally permits our Board to provide for the acceleration of vesting of options granted under that plan in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. Because we use certain hazardous materials in the production of our products, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the import, handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating the release or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, and such owner or operator may incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly the release or spill of, these substances could adversely affect the value of, and our ability to transfer or encumber, our real property. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. 