Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or which we currently deem to be immaterial, could also harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation regarding the conduct of our operations. If we fail to comply with any existing or new regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Overview. Companies such as ours that provide health care services are required to comply with many highly complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, those relating to the adequacy of medical care, billing for services, patient privacy, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and maintenance of records. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses to operate our facilities. We could also be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs that significantly contribute to our revenue. Many of the laws and regulations that govern our operations are highly complex and, in certain cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of such laws and regulations, as well as modifications thereof, could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or capital expenditure programs. Any such changes could harm our business. We are subject to “anti-kickback” and “self-referral” laws and regulations that provide for criminal and civil penalties if they are violated. The health care industry is subject to many laws and regulations designed to deter and prevent practices deemed by the government to be fraudulent or abusive. Unless an exception applies, federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit giving or receiving any consideration in return for physician referrals. Similarly, unless an exception applies, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark law” prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to providers of enumerated “designated health services” with whom the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be “self referrals” due to the physician’s financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the 14 Table of Contents payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated health care services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of payment for the patient’s care. We systematically review our operations on a regular basis and believe that we are in compliance with anti-kickback laws, the Stark law and similar state statutes. When evaluating joint ventures or other collaborative relationships with physicians, we consider the scope and effect of these statutes and seek to structure the arrangements in full compliance with their provisions. We also maintain a company-wide compliance program to monitor and promote our continued compliance with these and other statutory prohibitions and requirements. Nevertheless, if it is determined that any of our practices or operations violate the anti-kickback laws, the Stark law or similar state statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs that significantly contribute to our revenue. Additionally, the anti-kickback laws, the Stark law and similar state statutes are subject to change. If any of those laws change, we may not be able to comply with the modified laws and regulations. Moreover, our continued compliance with any such modified laws and regulations could require us to devote extensive resources, financial and otherwise, to achieving and maintaining compliance. Among other things, bills have been proposed in each of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate with respect to Medicare reimbursement to joint ventures that involve physicians. Such joint ventures may become subject to more oversight and limitations may be placed on certain joint ventures, including those that we have already formed. The imposition of penalties for alleged or actual violations of the anti-kickback laws, the Stark law and/or similar state statutes, our inability to comply with changes in such laws and/or significant compliance costs associated with any modified laws and regulations could each harm our business. We cannot predict the effect that health care reform and other changes in government programs may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. National health care reform is currently being contemplated by Congress and the White House and any proposed legislation will likely contain provisions that will significantly impact the health care industry. Those provisions may be designed to decrease the number of uninsured legal U.S. residents and reduce health care costs while simultaneously reducing the federal budget deficit. Various mechanisms to fund health care reform legislation are being considered, including, among other things, proposals that could reduce hospital reimbursement or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. Additionally, various mechanisms to control health care costs are being considered that could increase our operating costs. Several states are also considering health care reform measures. The focus on health care reform at both the national and state levels may increase the likelihood of other material changes to existing government health care programs and the health care delivery system. Because a significant portion of both our patient volume and revenue is derived from government health care programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid, possible future changes in federal and state health care programs may reduce reimbursements to health care providers and insurers and may also increase our operating costs, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Providers in the hospital industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations and we could become subject to such investigations or whistleblower lawsuits in the future. Historically, significant media and public attention has been focused on the hospital industry due to ongoing investigations related to referrals, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home health care services and physician ownership of joint ventures involving hospitals. Both federal and state government agencies have previously announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Additionally, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, established enforcement initiatives that focus on specific areas of suspected fraud and abuse. Recent and recently announced initiatives have focused on hospital billing practices, health care provider bad debts, disproportionate share payments, reliability of hospital-reported quality measure data, compliance with the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, MS-DRG coding and serious medical errors. In March 2005, CMS began implementing a pilot recovery audit contractor program, commonly known as RAC, that covered health care providers in some of the states where we operate. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 made the RAC program permanent and directed that it be expanded to all fifty states by 2010. CMS awarded contracts to four RAC auditors on October 6, 2008 and authorized work to begin in seventeen states, including some of the states where we operate hospitals and other health care facilities. On such date, CMS also provided its schedule to expand the RAC program to all fifty states by the end of 2010. Among other things, the RAC auditors, who are independent contractors, focus on the clinical documentation supporting billings under the Medicare program. If an auditor concludes that such documentation does not support the provider’s Medicare billings, CMS will revise the amount due to the provider, compare such amount to what was previously paid and withhold the difference from a current remittance. The affected facility can appeal the auditor’s decision through an administrative process. 15 Table of Contents The federal False Claims Act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. As discussed at Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we have been named in at least one whistleblower action. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in other such lawsuits of which we are not aware. Defendants determined to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each fraudulent bill submitted by a health care provider is considered a separate false claim and, therefore, penalties under the False Claims Act may be substantial. Liability arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that health care providers who allegedly violated other statutes and submitted claims to a government payor during the time period they allegedly violated those other statues, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. Some states have adopted similar whistleblower and false claims provisions. We closely monitor our billing and other health care practices to maintain compliance with prevailing industry interpretations of applicable laws and regulations and we believe that our practices are consistent with those in our industry. However, government investigations could be initiated that are inconsistent with industry practices and prevailing interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In public statements, government authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation was available. Some of those positions appear to be inconsistent with practices that have been common within our industry and, in some cases, have not been challenged. Additionally, some government investigations that were previously conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under fraud and abuse laws. We cannot predict the outcome of our ongoing whistleblower lawsuit or whether we will be the subject of future governmental investigations, inquiries or whistleblower lawsuits. Any determination that we have violated applicable laws or regulations or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations could harm our business. We could fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding patient privacy and patient information security that could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. There have been numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security standards related to patient information. In particular, federal regulations issued under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, contain provisions that required us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business procedures designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and related financial information. Such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulation requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. We are also required to make certain expenditures to help ensure our continued compliance with such laws and regulations and, in the future, such expenses could negatively impact our results of operations. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, referred to as the Economic Stimulus Bill, included provisions for heightened enforcement of HIPAA and stiffer penalties for HIPAA violations. If we were found to have violated or failed to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and our business could be harmed. If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid. The construction and operation of health care facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. Additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with the relevant standards. All of our hospitals (and substantially all of our laboratories and home health agencies) are accredited, meaning that they are properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the Medicare program. The effect of maintaining accredited facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that all of our health care facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. However, should any of our health care facilities lose their accredited status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, such 16 Table of Contents facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be harmed. Because the requirements for accreditation are subject to modification, it may be necessary for us to affect changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services in order to maintain accreditation. Such changes could be expensive and could adversely affect our results of operations. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. The construction of new health care facilities, the acquisition of existing health care facilities and the addition of new beds or services at existing health care facilities may be reviewed by state regulatory agencies under certificate of need and similar laws. Except for Arkansas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Texas, all of the states where our hospitals operate have certificate of need or similar laws. Such laws generally require state agency determination of public need and local agency approval prior to the construction of a new hospital facility and/or the addition of new beds or significant services to a hospital, or a related capital expenditure. Failure to obtain the necessary approvals in these states could: (i) result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement; (ii) make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs; (iii) result in the revocation of a facility’s license; or (iv) impose civil and criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. Our operations are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (iv) hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business. We could fail to comply with the federal Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, or EMTALA, which could subject us to civil monetary penalties or cause us to be excluded from participation in the Medicare program. All of our facilities are subject to EMTALA, which requires every hospital participating in the Medicare program to conduct a medical screening examination of each person presented for treatment at its emergency room. If a patient is suffering from an emergency medical condition, the hospital must either stabilize that condition or make an appropriate transfer of the patient to a facility that can handle the condition, regardless of the patient’s ability to pay for care. EMTALA imposes severe penalties if a hospital fails to screen, appropriately stabilize or transfer a patient, or if a hospital delays service while first inquiring about the patient’s ability to pay. Such penalties include, but are not limited to, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition to civil monetary penalties, an aggrieved patient, a patient’s family or a medical facility that ultimately suffers a financial loss as a direct result of a transferring hospital’s EMTALA violation can commence a civil suit under EMTALA. Although we believe that our facilities comply with EMTALA, there can be no assurances that claims will not be brought against us and, if successfully asserted against one or more of our hospitals, such claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased state regulation of the rates we charge for our services could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently operate a hospital in West Virginia, a state that requires us to submit annual requests for increases in our rates. Accordingly, the operating margins for our West Virginia hospital may be adversely affected if we are unable to increase our rates as our expenses increase, or if the rates we charge are decreased as a result of regulatory action. If other states in which we operate enact similar rate-setting laws, those actions could harm our business. Continued weak economic conditions and a volatile credit market could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our future patient volume, the ability to collect our accounts receivable and our overall future results of operations could be materially adversely impacted by a continuation of the current weak economic conditions, especially levels of unemployment that are substantially higher than historical trends and declining consumer confidence. While certain health care spending is considered non-discretionary and may not be significantly impacted by economic downturns, other types of health care spending may be adversely impacted by these conditions. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals. Moreover, a greater number of uninsured patients may seek care in our emergency rooms. We believe that a persistent weak economy could: (i) increase the number of uninsured people, which would likely increase our costs for uncompensated patient care; (ii) reduce our revenue due to decreased funding from Medicaid and other beleaguered state health care programs; (iii) reduce the number of 17 Table of Contents elective procedures performed at our hospitals and other health care facilities, including surgeries; and (iv) threaten the solvency of managed care health plans and others that do business with us, each of which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our ability to refinance our long-term debt, if necessary, or to secure additional capital resources to fund our operational and growth strategies will depend, in large part, on our ability to access the credit markets. Since 2008, credit markets have been volatile and, for a period of time, they were essentially unavailable due to a severe banking crisis. We cannot predict whether credit market conditions will improve or whether we will be able to access the credit markets when necessary or desirable. If we are not able to access credit markets and obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms when needed, our business could be materially harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Growth in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients or deterioration in the collectibility of the accounts of such patients could adversely affect our results of operations. The principal collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts required by the applicable agreement but patient responsibility amounts (e.g., deductibles, co-payments, other amounts not covered by insurance, etc.) remain outstanding. Our provision for doubtful accounts provides for, among other things, amounts due from such patients. The determination of the amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of historical cash collections and accounts receivable write-offs, expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer health care coverage and other relevant key indicators. If we experience significant increases in uninsured and underinsured patients and/or uncollectible accounts receivable, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as the provisions of EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide further medical treatment as is required to stabilize the patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for the transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital’s written procedures. If our volume of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions increases significantly, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. If government programs or managed care companies reduce the payments we receive as reimbursement for the health care services we provide, our revenue could decline and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from federal and state government reimbursement programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Such programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning, among other things: (i) patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursement; (ii) requirements for utilization review; and (iii) federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease the payments to us in the future, as well as affect the timing of such payments. Previous changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. Pressure on federal and state programs, which is likely to increase during the current economic downturn, may also impact the availability of taxpayer funds for the Medicare and Medicaid programs. For example, a number of states are experiencing substantial budget shortfalls and, as a result, have adopted legislation, or are considering legislation, designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and/or reduce the number of Medicaid enrollees. We are unable to predict the potential effects that future government health care funding policy changes will have on our operations. If the rates paid by government payors are reduced or if the scope of services covered by government payors is limited, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, third party payors, including managed care health plans, are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through, among other means, capitation arrangements. Efforts by third parties to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and enforce stringent cost controls are expected to continue. It would harm our business if we were unable to enter into arrangements with managed care health plans on economic terms that are acceptable to us. Any material reductions in the payments that we receive for our services, coupled with difficulties we may encounter collecting our accounts receivable from managed care health plans, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Controls designed by third parties to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenue. Controls imposed by third party payors that are designed to reduce admissions and the average length of hospital stays, commonly referred to as “utilization reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our operations. Utilization reviews entail an evaluation of a patient’s admission and course of treatment by managed care health plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively impacted by payor-required pre-admission authorization, utilization reviews and payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Although we cannot predict the effect that these changes will have on our operations, limitations on the scope of services for which we are reimbursed and/or downward pressure on reimbursement rates and fees as a result of utilization reviews could adversely affect our results of operations. Our substantial borrowings have, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our business and may affect our ability to secure additional financing when needed. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $3.04 billion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations, as well as availability of $455.2 million under a long-term revolving credit facility. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness or to secure additional capital resources to fund our operational and growth strategies, as well as ongoing programs for the renovation, expansion, construction and acquisition of long-lived capital assets, will depend on, among other things, our future operating performance. Those operating results may be affected by general economic, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. We believe that our future cash flow from operating activities, together with available financing arrangements and cash proceeds from business unit and/or asset sales, will be sufficient to fund our operating, strategic growth, capital expenditure and debt service requirements. However, if we fail to meet our financial obligations or if supplemental financing is not available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, our business could be harmed. Our substantial leverage and debt service requirements could have other important consequences to us, including, but not limited to, the following: • Our $3.25 billion senior secured credit facilities, which are described at Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, and the indentures governing our senior notes and our convertible senior subordinated notes contain, and any future debt obligations we incur will likely contain, covenants and restrictions that, among other things, require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. If we do not comply with these or other financial covenants in those arrangements, an event of default may result, which, if not cured or waived, could require us to immediately repay or refinance our indebtedness. Moreover, covenant violations could also subject us to higher interest and financing costs on our debt obligations and our credit ratings could be adversely affected. • In the event of a default under one or more of our debt arrangements, we may be forced to pursue alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling core assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effectuated on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that sufficient funds could be obtained to make required debt service payments. Additionally, a debt restructuring could subject us to higher interest and financing costs and our credit ratings could be adversely affected. • Notwithstanding our interest rate swap contract, we could be exposed to financial risk, including higher interest and financing costs, in the event of nonperformance by one or more of the counterparties to such contract. • We are required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which may reduce the amount of discretionary funds available for our other operational needs and growth objectives. • Because of the need for increased cash flow to service our debt arrangements, we may be more vulnerable to a decline in our business, changes in the health care industry or prolonged weak economic conditions. 19 Table of Contents We are the subject of legal proceedings that, if resolved adversely, could have a harmful effect on us. We are a party to various ongoing legal proceedings, including a class action lawsuit, a shareholder derivative action lawsuit and a qui tam lawsuit. The material legal proceedings affecting us are described at Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our current legal proceedings, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We may incur liabilities not covered by our insurance or which exceed our insurance limits, or a party to our insurance program could become insolvent or otherwise not meet its contractual obligations. In the ordinary course of business, our subsidiary hospitals are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits and other legal actions. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. We self-insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks. Based on our past experience and current actuarial estimates, we believe that our insurance coverage and our self-insurance reserves are sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our subsidiary hospitals. However, if payments for claims and related expenses exceed our estimates or if payments are required to be made by us that are not covered by insurance, our business could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Also, one or more of the unrelated insurance and reinsurance companies that provide us coverage could become insolvent or otherwise be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our facilities are heavily concentrated in Florida and Mississippi, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic and competitive changes in those states, as well as the harmful effects of hurricanes and other severe weather activity in such states. As of February 19, 2010, we operated 55 hospitals, including 28 in Florida and Mississippi. Our home office is also located in Florida. Such geographic concentration of our hospitals makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. Any material changes in those factors in Florida or Mississippi could have a disproportionate effect on our business. Regions in and around the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. As a result, certain of our health care facilities, especially those in Florida and Mississippi, and our home office are susceptible to physical damage and business interruptions from an active hurricane season or a single severe storm. Even if our facilities are not directly damaged, we may experience considerable disruptions in our operations due to property damage experienced in the affected areas by our patients, physicians, payors, vendors and others. Additionally, long-term adverse weather conditions, whether caused by global climate change or otherwise, could cause an outmigration of people from the communities where our hospitals are located. If any of the abovementioned circumstances occurred, there could be a harmful effect on our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected. The failure of certain employers or the closure of certain facilities could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals and harm our business. The economies in the non-urban communities where our hospitals operate are often dependant on a small number of large employers. Those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals for their care. The failure of one or more large employers or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere for employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on joint ventures and acquisitions. However, we may not be able to form joint ventures or continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. We may also have difficulty acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities or pursuing certain joint venture activity due to regulatory scrutiny and other restrictions. We pursue joint venture opportunities with physicians and other health care companies for entire hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, medical office buildings and other health care services businesses. Our ability to enter into certain types of joint venture arrangements that might otherwise form a part of our growth strategy is limited by, 20 Table of Contents among other things, federal and state laws and regulations that restrict the types of joint ventures that may be formed between hospitals and physicians. Moreover, federal and state laws and regulations governing joint ventures, including those that we have already formed, are subject to modification. For example, the national health care reform legislation pending before Congress proposes to eliminate or restrict physician ownership in hospital joint ventures. If final legislation is adopted as proposed, our ability to complete additional hospital joint ventures will be severely restricted or prohibited entirely, each of which would adversely affect our joint venture growth strategy. Such final legislation could also impose burdensome restrictions on the joint ventures that we have already formed. If we encounter these or other significant joint venture regulatory obstacles, our operational and growth strategies could be adversely impacted. Moreover, our results of operations could be adversely impacted if we are required to unwind or substantively modify our existing joint ventures as a result of new legislation. Acquisitions of general acute care hospitals in non-urban markets are also an element of our overall growth strategy. We face competition for potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. Additionally, many states have enacted, or from time to time consider enactment of, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. Moreover, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide increased regulatory review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction where a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential buyers could make it more difficult for us to acquire hospitals, increase our acquisition costs and/or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. We may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations. Prior to their acquisition, most of the hospitals we acquire were experiencing operating losses or had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate. We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems at those hospitals. Integrating a new hospital can be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. Acquired hospitals require transitions from, and the integration of, operations, personnel and information systems. If we are unable to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively and timely integrate their operations, our results of operations could be harmed. Our receipt of new Medicare and Medicaid provider numbers may be delayed following our acquisition of a hospital. Following our acquisition of a hospital, we generally obtain new provider numbers for Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain such provider numbers on a timely basis, our receipt of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement could be delayed. Such delays could temporarily harm our cash flows. If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers’ compensation liabilities, tax liabilities and liabilities for unacceptable business practices. Although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business. 21 Table of Contents Other hospitals and freestanding outpatient facilities provide services similar to ours, which may raise the level of competition we face and adversely affect our results of operations. The health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers has intensified in recent years. In some of the geographic areas where we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. Some of those competitor hospitals are owned by government agencies and supported by tax revenue and others are owned by not-for-profit corporations and may be supported, in part, by endowments and charitable contributions. Such support is not available to our hospitals. In some cases, our competitors may be a significant distance away from our facilities; however, patients in our markets may migrate, may be referred by local physicians or may be required by their health plan to travel to these hospitals for care. Furthermore, some of our competitors may be better equipped than our hospitals and could offer a broader range of services than we do. Additionally, outpatient treatment and diagnostic imaging facilities, outpatient surgical centers, specialized care providers (e.g., oncology, physical therapy, etc.), and freestanding ambulatory surgical centers (each of which may have physician ownership interests) have increased in number and accessibility in recent years. These trends have adversely affected our market share. If our hospitals are not able to effectively attract patients, our business could be harmed. In recent years, the amount of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. If these measures become a primary factor in determining where patients choose to receive care and if competing hospitals or other health care providers have better metrics than our hospitals on these measures, we would expect that our patient volume would decline, which would harm our business and results of operations. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. Physicians make admitting and other decisions regarding the appropriate course of patient treatment, which, in turn, affect hospital revenue. Therefore, the success of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on their medical staffs, the admitting practices of those physicians and continued good relations with such physicians. Many of the physicians working at our hospitals are not our employees and, in a number of the markets that we serve, they have admitting privileges at hospitals other than our own. If we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet physicians’ needs, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, we could find it difficult to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities where our hospitals are located. An inability to recruit physicians to those communities or the loss of physicians in those communities could make it difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby harm our business. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. The technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. To effectively compete, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. If our hospitals do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. Our hospitals face competition for medical support staff, including nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and other personnel, which may increase our labor costs and adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on our experienced medical support personnel, including nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, seasoned local hospital management and other medical personnel. We compete with other health care providers to recruit and retain these health care professionals. On a national level, a shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue for a number of health care providers. In the future, this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain such personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary and per diem personnel. Additionally, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. If our wages and related expenses rise, we may not be able to correspondingly increase our reimbursement rates. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or modulate our labor costs could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. 22 Table of Contents We depend heavily on key management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and the efforts, ability and experience of key members of our local hospital management teams. We do not maintain employment agreements with our management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or a significant portion of our local hospital management teams could significantly weaken our ability to efficiently deliver health care services, which could harm our business. Our business could be harmed by a failure of our proprietary information technology system. The performance of our proprietary management information system, known as the Pulse System®, is critical to our business operations. Any failure that causes a material interruption in the availability of the Pulse System® could adversely affect our operations or delay our cash collections. Although we have implemented network security measures, our servers could become vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, disruptions from unauthorized tampering and hurricane-related failures. Any of these circumstances could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or a general lack of availability of the Pulse System®, each of which could harm our business. If we cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common stock. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE continued listing criteria, our common stock would be subject to delisting, which could negatively impact us by: (i) reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock and, as a result, negatively impact our ability to raise equity or complete other financing arrangements; and (iii) limiting our ability to use a short form registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, thereby preventing us from quickly accessing the public capital markets. Additionally, should the price of our common stock fall below $1.00, certain investors, including some mutual funds, may no longer be permitted to continue to hold shares of our common stock, which could exacerbate one or more of the above risks. Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. Stock markets experience volatility that is often unrelated to a company’s operating performance. Broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. Moreover, if we are unable to operate our hospitals profitably or at the levels expected by our stockholders, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition to potentially unfavorable operating results, many economic and other factors outside of our control could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or cause the price of our common stock to substantially fluctuate, including certain of the risks discussed above, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, the severity of seasonal illnesses, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 23 Table of Contents 