ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If any of the events described below should occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or which we currently deem to be immaterial, could also harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation regarding the conduct of our operations. If we fail to comply with any existing or new regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Overview. Companies such as ours that provide health care services are required to comply with many highly complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, those relating to the adequacy of medical care, billing for services, patient privacy, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and maintenance of records. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses to operate our facilities. We could also become unable to participate in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state health care programs that significantly contribute to our revenue. Because many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are relatively new and/or highly complex, in many cases we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of such laws and regulations could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or capital expenditure programs. We are subject to “anti-kickback” and “self-referral” laws and regulations that provide for criminal and civil penalties if they are violated. The health care industry is subject to many laws and regulations designed to deter and prevent practices deemed by the government to be fraudulent or abusive. Unless an exception applies, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark law” prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of enumerated “designated health services” with whom the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be “self referrals” due to the physician’s financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated health care services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of the payment for the patient’s care. We systematically review all of our operations on an ongoing basis and believe that we are in compliance with the Stark law and similar state statutes. When evaluating strategic joint ventures or other collaborative relationships with physicians, we consider the scope and effect of these statutes and seek to structure the relationships in full compliance with their provisions. We also maintain a company-wide compliance program in order to monitor and promote our continued compliance with these and other statutory prohibitions and requirements. Nevertheless, if it 16 is determined that certain of our practices or operations violate the Stark law or similar statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare or Medicaid programs. The imposition of any such penalties could harm our business. Providers in the hospital industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations and we could become subject to such investigations in the future. For the past several years, significant media and public attention has been focused on the hospital industry due to ongoing investigations related to referrals, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home health care services and physician ownership of joint ventures involving hospitals. Both federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts and the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, established enforcement initiatives that focus on specific areas of suspected fraud and abuse. Recent initiatives include a focus on hospital billing practices. We closely monitor our billing and other hospital practices to maintain compliance with prevailing industry interpretations of applicable laws and regulations and we believe that our practices are consistent with current industry practices. However, government investigations could be initiated that are inconsistent with industry practices and prevailing interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In public statements, governmental authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation had been previously available. Some of those positions appear to be inconsistent with practices that have been common within the industry and, in some cases, they have not yet been challenged. Moreover, some government investigations that were previously conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under fraud and abuse laws. We cannot predict whether we will be the subject of future governmental investigations or inquiries. Any determination that we have violated applicable laws or regulations or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations could harm our business. We could fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding patient privacy and patient information security that could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. There have been numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security standards related to patient information. In particular, federal regulations issued under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, contain provisions that required us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business procedures designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and related financial information. Compliance with such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulation requirements to third parties that perform functions on our behalf. We cannot predict what the total financial or other impact of these laws and regulations will be on our business over time. We are also required to make certain expenditures to help ensure our continued compliance with such laws and regulations and, in the future, such expenses could negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, if we were found to have violated or failed to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and our business could be harmed. We are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. In recent years, an increasing number of initiatives have been introduced or proposed at the federal and state levels that would affect major changes in the health care delivery system. Among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. We cannot predict whether any health care reform proposals will be adopted. If adopted, the implementation of such reforms could harm our business. 17 If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid. The construction and operation of health care facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. In addition, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by governmental authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. Our general acute care hospitals (and substantially all of our laboratories and home health agencies) are accredited, meaning that they are properly licensed under appropriate state laws and regulations, certified under the Medicare program and accredited by JCAHO. The effect of maintaining accredited facilities is to permit such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that all of our health care facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and independent review body regulations and standards. However, should any of our health care facilities lose their accredited status, and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be harmed. Moreover, the requirements for accreditation are subject to change and, in order for all of our facilities to remain accredited, it may be necessary for us to affect changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services. Such changes could be expensive and could harm our results of operations. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. The construction of new health care facilities, the acquisition of existing health care facilities and the addition of new beds or services at existing health care facilities may be reviewed by state regulatory agencies under certificate of need and similar laws. Except for Arkansas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Texas, all of the states in which our hospitals are located have certificate of need or similar laws. Such laws generally require appropriate state agency determination of public need and local agency approval prior to the addition of new beds or significant services to a hospital, or a related capital expenditure. Our failure to obtain necessary approvals in these states could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility’s license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. If government programs or managed care companies reduce the payments we receive as reimbursement for the health care services we provide, our revenue could decline. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Changes in these government programs have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. Fiscal pressures placed on federal and state governments may also affect the availability of taxpayer funds for the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, private payors, including managed care payors, increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through capitation arrangements. We expect continued third party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and enforce more stringent cost controls. If reimbursement reductions or cost controls are material, the payments we receive for the health care services we provide would be affected and our results of operations could be harmed. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenue. Controls imposed by third party payors that are designed to reduce admissions and the average length of hospital stays, commonly referred to as “utilization reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization reviews entail an evaluation of a patient’s admission and course of treatment by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively impacted by payor-required preadmission authorization, utilization reviews and payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are 18 expected to continue. Although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, limitations on the scope of services for which we are reimbursed and/or downward pressure on reimbursement rates and fees as a result of utilization reviews could harm our results of operations. The continued growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or further deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. The principal collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to uninsured patient accounts and to patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement but patient responsibility amounts (e.g., deductibles, co-payments and other amounts not covered by insurance) remain outstanding. Our provision for doubtful accounts relates to, among other things, amounts due directly from such patients. The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based upon our assessment of historical cash collections and accounts receivable write-offs, expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer health care coverage and other collection indicators. If we continue to experience significant increases in uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations could be harmed. If the number of uninsured patients treated by our subsidiary hospitals in accordance with applicable law and each hospital’s indigent and charity care guidelines increases, our results of operations may be harmed. In accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide further medical examination and treatment as is required in order to stabilize the patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital’s written procedures. If the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations may be harmed. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions and joint ventures and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria or form joint ventures. We may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities or pursuing certain joint venture activity due to regulatory scrutiny and other restrictions. Acquisitions of general acute care hospitals in attractive non-urban markets and the formation of joint ventures with physicians, other health care companies and providers are key elements of our growth strategy. We face competition for acquisition candidates and joint venture partners from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. In addition, many states have enacted, or from time to time consider enactment of, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. Moreover, attorney generals in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction wherein a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential buyers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. We also pursue joint venture opportunities for entire hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, medical office buildings and other health care services businesses. Our ability to enter into certain types of joint venture arrangements that might otherwise form a part of our growth strategy is limited by, among other things, federal and state laws and regulations that restrict the types of joint ventures that may be formed between hospitals and physicians. If we encounter significant joint venture formation obstacles, our corresponding growth strategy could be adversely impacted. 19 We may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations. Prior to their acquisition, most of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate. If we are unable to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. Our receipt of new Medicare and Medicaid provider numbers may be delayed following our acquisition of a hospital. Following our acquisition of a hospital, we generally obtain new provider numbers for Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain such provider numbers on a timely basis, our receipt of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement could be delayed. Such delays could temporarily harm our cash flows. If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers’ compensation liabilities, tax liabilities and liabilities for unacceptable business practices. Although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business. Other hospitals and freestanding outpatient facilities provide services similar to ours, which may raise the level of competition we face and adversely affect our results of operations. The health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers has intensified in recent years. In some of the geographic areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals, some of which are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenue and others that are owned by not-for-profit corporations and may be supported, in part, by endowments and charitable contributions. Such support is not available to our hospitals. In some cases, our competitors may be a significant distance away from our facilities; however, patients in our markets may migrate, may be referred by local physicians or may be required by their health plan to travel to these hospitals for care. Furthermore, some of our competitors may be better equipped than our hospitals and could offer a broader range of services than we do. Additionally, outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities (including many in which physicians have an ownership interest and a growing number of health care clinics in large retail stores), outpatient surgical centers and freestanding ambulatory surgical centers have increased in number and accessibility in recent years. These trends have adversely affected our market share. If our hospitals are not able to effectively attract patients, our business could be harmed. Our facilities are heavily concentrated in Florida and Mississippi, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic and competitive changes in those states, as well as the harmful effects of hurricanes and other severe weather activity in such states. We operated 61 hospitals on February 23, 2007, with 29 of those hospitals in Florida and Mississippi. Such geographic concentration of our hospitals makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. Any material changes therein in Florida or Mississippi could have a disproportionate effect on our business. In addition, both Florida and Mississippi are located in hurricane-prone areas. In the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in Florida and Mississippi, the patient populations in such states and our corporate headquarters in Naples, Florida. Our business and corporate office activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm. 20 It is difficult to predict the financial performance of a de novo hospital we construct and such facilities will take time to perform at the level of our other hospitals. De novo hospitals we construct, such as Physicians Regional Medical Center – Collier Boulevard, do not have operating histories. As a result, it is more difficult to predict their ultimate financial performance. Moreover, such hospitals incur significant start-up costs and develop their market share over time. Accordingly, de novo hospitals are expected to have a short-term dilutive effect on our earnings and they make it more difficult for us to precisely forecast our fiscal performance until such facilities mature. Our substantial leverage could have a significant effect on our operations and on our ability to secure additional financing when needed. After completion of a recapitalization of our balance sheet, which is more fully described at Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we will have approximately $3.8 billion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations, as well as availability of $500.0 million under a new long-term revolving credit facility. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness or to secure additional capital resources to fund our acquisition and joint venture growth strategies, as well as our ongoing programs for the renovation, expansion, construction and acquisition of long-lived capital assets, will depend upon, among other things, our operating performance. Such future operating results may be affected by general economic, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that our future cash flow from operating activities, together with available financing arrangements, will be sufficient to fund our operating, strategic growth, capital expenditure and debt service requirements, if we fail to meet our financial obligations or if supplemental financing is not be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, our leverage and debt service requirements could have other important consequences to us, including, but not limited to, the following: Our new $3.25 billion senior secured credit facilities, which are described at Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, and the indentures governing our senior notes and our convertible senior subordinated notes contain, and any future debt obligations we incur may contain, covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt and sell assets. If we do not comply with these covenants or other financial covenants incorporated into those arrangements, an event of default may result, which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay our indebtedness immediately. Moreover, covenant violations could, among other things, subject us to higher interest rates on our debt obligations and our credit ratings could be adversely affected. We may be more vulnerable in the event of a deterioration of our business or changes in the health care industry or the economy in general, such as governmental limitations on reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, because of our increased need for cash flow. We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which could reduce the amount of discretionary funds available for our other operational needs and growth objectives. In the event of a default, we may be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effectuated on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that sufficient funds could be obtained to make the requisite debt service payments. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. Physicians make admitting decisions and decisions regarding the appropriate course of patient treatment, which, in turn, affect hospital revenue. Therefore, the success of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. In many instances, physicians are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of the markets that we serve, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals 21 in addition to our hospitals. If we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations could be harmed. Additionally, we could find it difficult to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. Our inability to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby harm our results of operations. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. Every day, there are technological advances regarding computer-assisted tomography (“CT”) scanners, magnetic resonance imaging (“MRI”) equipment, positron emission tomography (“PET”) scanners and other similar equipment. In order to effectively compete, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when technological advances occur. If our hospitals do not stay abreast of the technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources. Our hospitals face competition for medical support staff, including nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and other personnel, which may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. We are highly dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. On a national level, a shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue for a number of health care providers. In the future, this national shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. In addition, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. If our general labor and related expenses increase we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. We depend heavily on key management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and on the efforts, ability and experience of key members of our local hospital management staffs. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of a significant portion of our local hospital management staffs could significantly weaken our management expertise and our ability to efficiently deliver health care services, which could harm our business. We may incur liabilities not covered by our insurance or which exceed our insurance limits. In the ordinary course of business, our subsidiary hospitals are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits and other legal actions. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. We self-insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks. We believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our subsidiary hospitals. However, if payments for claims and related expenses exceed our estimates or if payments are required to be made by us that are not covered by insurance, our business could be harmed. Recent hurricane and storm activity in the Gulf of Mexico has increased our overall insurance costs, reduced our insurance coverage and increased our exposure to self-insured risks. Regions in and around the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. As of February 23, 2007, twenty-nine of our hospitals were located in the Gulf Coast states of Florida and Mississippi. Our corporate headquarters is also located in Florida. As a result, these facilities are susceptible to physical damage 22 and interruptions to business. Even if our facilities are not directly damaged, we may experience considerable disruptions in our operations due to property damage experienced in the affected area by our patients, physicians, payors, vendors and others. Because of substantial hurricane-related losses incurred by insurance carriers covering the Gulf Coast region in recent years, we could not procure affordable insurance policies with the same coverage as in prior years. With the expiration of our former property and business interruption insurance policies on May 31, 2006, we became exposed to greater risk for property damage, business interruption and similar losses. The new insurance policies that we elected to obtain are more costly than our expired policies, impose higher deductibles and self-insured amounts, and limit maximum aggregate recoveries for hurricane-related damage or loss. These modifications to our risk management program could harm our business and results of operations. Our business could be impaired by a failure of our proprietary information technology system. The performance of our proprietary management information system, known as the Pulse System®, is critical to our business operations. Any failure that causes a material interruption in the availability of the Pulse System® could adversely affect our operations or delay our cash collections. Although we have implemented network security measures, our servers could become vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and disruptions from unauthorized tampering, as well as hurricane-related interruptions. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of the Pulse System®, which could harm our business. Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. Stock markets experience volatility that is often unrelated to operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. Moreover, if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition to potentially unfavorable operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could adversely affect the price of our common stock or cause the price of our common stock to substantially fluctuate, including certain of the risks discussed above, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, the level of seasonal illnesses, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 