Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those under “Business” in Item 1 and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II. The risks described therein and elsewhere in this report are incorporated by reference into this Item 1A. If any of the events described below occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or which we currently deem to be immaterial, could also harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation regarding the conduct of our operations. If we fail to comply with any existing or new laws or regulations, we could suffer administrative, civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Companies such as ours that provide health care services are required to comply with many highly complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, those relating to the adequacy of medical care, billing for services, patient privacy, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and maintenance of records. Our policy is to comply with all applicable laws and regulations; however, if we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses to operate our facilities. We could also be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs that contribute significantly to our revenue. Many of the laws and regulations that govern our operations are highly complex and, in certain cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of such laws and regulations, as well as modifications thereof, could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or capital expenditure programs. Any such changes could harm our business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We are unable to predict the impact that the Health Care Reform Act, which will significantly change the health care industry, will have on our business and results of operations. The Health Care Reform Act will dramatically change how health care services are covered, delivered and reimbursed through, among other things: (i) a requirement that most Americans obtain health insurance; (ii) expanded Medicaid eligibility and coverage for uninsured individuals; (iii) reduced growth in Medicare program spending; (iv) reductions in Medicare and Medicaid payments; (v) the establishment of value-based purchasing programs where reimbursement is tied to quality; and (vi) the elimination of the ability of health care providers like us to enter into new partnerships with physicians in the ownership of certain health care facilities. Additionally, the Health Care Reform Act contains provisions designed to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement, modifies the health insurance industry and expands existing efforts to tie Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement to performance and quality. We believe that the expansion of health insurance coverage under the Health Care Reform Act could increase the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program health care coverage. As a result of the increased income eligibility limits under the law, we believe that a large percentage of the new Medicaid coverage will be in states that currently have relatively low income eligibility requirements. Three such states are Florida, Mississippi and Tennessee where we operated 41 hospitals as of December 31, 2012. It is difficult to predict the impact of changes resulting from the Health Care Reform Act on us because of numerous issues surrounding the implementation of such law, including, but not limited to, uncertainty regarding: — the possibility that portions of the Health Care Reform Act will be revised, repealed or defunded as a result of legislative action in response to budget cuts to avoid or moderate sequestration; — the possibility that health insurance exchanges will not be established or operating or that the insurance coverage options available through such exchanges may not be affordable for many affected individuals; — how many states will expand Medicaid coverage as specified in the Health Care Reform Act, in light of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on June 28, 2012 declaring the Health Care Reform Act constitutional but leaving Medicaid expansion as an option to be decided by each individual state; — how many previously uninsured individuals will actually obtain coverage through Medicaid or private health insurance programs; — what percent of newly insured patients will be covered under Medicaid versus private health insurance programs; — the pace at which health care insurance coverage expands; — the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; — changes in rates paid to hospitals by private payors; — changes in rates paid by state governments under the Medicaid program; — the ability of states to fund their portion of Medicaid payments; — the extent to which states will enroll new Medicaid participants in managed care programs; — how the performance and quality programs mandated by the Health Care Reform Act will be implemented; and — whether the Health Care Reform Act will ultimately cause health insurers to seek to reduce reimbursement payments. The Health Care Reform Act also provides for significant reductions in the growth of Medicare spending, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid payments and the establishment of value-based purchasing programs. It is possible that these changes could more than offset other favorable effects from the Health Care Reform Act. It is difficult to predict the impact of the potentially adverse changes on us because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, uncertainty regarding: — whether reductions required by the Health Care Reform Act will be modified prior to becoming effective; — the revenue we will generate from Medicare and Medicaid business when the various reductions and adjustments planned under the Health Care Reform Act are implemented; — whether the Health Care Reform Act’s performance and quality initiatives will have a negative impact on our business; — how successful “Accountable Care Organizations” in which we may participate will be at coordinating care and reducing costs; — changes to revenue as a result of value-based purchasing; 20 Table of Contents — changes to revenue as a result of bundled payment programs; — the scope and nature of potential changes to Medicare reimbursement methods; and — reductions in payments we might receive from Medicare for “excessive readmissions” or “hospital acquired conditions.” As summarized above and elsewhere in these risk factors, we cannot predict the full impact of the Health Care Reform Act on our business or results of operations because of, among other things: (i) the law’s complexity; (ii) the lack of implementing regulations and/or interpretive guidance; (iii) the timing of the law’s implementation (and possible delays in such implementation); (iv) pending and future legal challenges that seek to delay or block certain of the law’s provisions; and (v) possible legislative amendment of the law. Additionally, we cannot predict how individuals and businesses will respond to the new mandates and alternatives established under the Health Care Reform Act. Portions of the Health Care Reform Act, such as those provisions expanding health insurance or Medicaid coverage, may be delayed or blocked by individual states. On June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the Health Care Reform Act in general, while declaring that the expansion of Medicaid is optional for each state. Following the court’s decision, the governors of certain states where we maintain operations, including Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas, announced that they intended to delay or block implementation of certain portions of the Health Care Reform Act (such as those provisions expanding health insurance or Medicaid coverage). Additionally, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and West Virginia are undecided as to whether they will implement the Medicaid expansion portion of the Health Care Reform Act. If states in which we maintain operations block or delay aspects of the Health Care Reform Act that would otherwise be beneficial to us, our business could be materially harmed and our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. We are subject to “anti-kickback” and “self-referral” laws and regulations that provide for criminal and civil penalties if they are violated. The health care industry is subject to many laws and regulations that are designed to deter and prevent practices deemed by the government to be fraudulent, abusive or otherwise contrary to government policies. Unless a safe harbor applies, federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit giving or receiving any consideration in return for physician referrals. Similarly, unless an exception applies, Section 1877 of the Social Security Act of 1935 (commonly known as the “Stark law”) prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to providers of enumerated “designated health services” with whom the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be “self-referrals” due to the physician’s financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated health care services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of payment for the patient’s care. The Health Care Reform Act provides that submission of a claim for services generated or items provided in violation of the Stark law constitutes a false or fraudulent claim that may be subject to additional penalties under the federal False Claims Act of 1863, referred to as the False Claims Act. The Health Care Reform Act provides greater resources to enforce the Stark law, including supplemental federal funding of $350 million over ten years to fight health care fraud, waste and abuse. The Health Care Reform Act also changes the intent requirement for health care fraud such that a person need not have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the law. This change in the intent requirement will likely make it easier for fraud claims to be brought against a health care provider. We systematically review our operations on a regular basis to monitor compliance with anti-kickback laws, the Stark law and similar state statutes. When evaluating collaborative relationships with physicians, we consider the scope and effect of these statutes and seek to structure the arrangements in full compliance with their provisions. We also maintain a company-wide compliance program to monitor and promote our continued compliance with these and other statutory prohibitions and requirements. Nevertheless, if it is determined that any of our practices or operations violate the anti-kickback laws, the Stark law or similar state statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs that contribute significantly to our revenue. The imposition of penalties for alleged or actual violations of the anti-kickback laws, the Stark law and/or similar state statutes, our inability to comply with changes in such laws and/or significant compliance costs associated with any modified laws and regulations could each harm our business. Additionally, the anti-kickback laws, the Stark law and similar state statutes are subject to change and interpretations and we may not be able to comply with the modified laws and regulations. Moreover, our continued compliance with any such modified laws and regulations could require us to devote extensive resources, financial and otherwise, to achieving and maintaining compliance. 21 Table of Contents We have been the subject of federal and state investigations and we could become subject to additional investigations or whistleblower lawsuits in the future. Historically, significant media and public attention has been focused on hospitals and hospital operators due to investigations related to referrals, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home health care services and physician ownership of joint ventures involving hospitals. Federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated their civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Additionally, the Office of the Inspector General of HHS (“HHS-OIG”) and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, established enforcement initiatives that focus on specific areas of suspected fraud and abuse. Recent and recently announced initiatives have focused on hospital billing practices (e.g., kyphoplasty, implantable cardioverter defibrillators, or ICDs, etc.), health care provider bad debts, disproportionate share payments, reliability of hospital-reported quality measure data, compliance with the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act of 1986, MS-DRG coding and serious medical errors. In March 2005, CMS began implementing a pilot recovery audit contractor program, known as RAC, which covered health care providers in certain states. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 made the RAC program permanent and expanded it to all fifty states. Among other things, RAC auditors, who are independent contractors, focus on the clinical documentation supporting billings under the Medicare program. If an auditor concludes that such documentation does not support the provider’s Medicare billings, CMS will revise the amount due to the provider, compare such amount to what was previously paid and withhold the difference from a current remittance. The affected facility can appeal the auditor’s findings through an administrative process. During federal fiscal year 2012, approximately $2.4 billion in overpayments to Medicare providers was identified and collected and $109.4 million in underpayments was returned to Medicare providers under the RAC program. Effective January 1, 2012, a three-year Recovery Audit Prepayment Review Demonstration was implemented by CMS, which will allow RAC auditors to conduct prepayment claim reviews. CMS believes such prepayment reviews will both assist in lowering the improper payment rate and identifying potential fraud and abuse, as opposed to the traditional post-payment review mechanisms. The Health Care Reform Act expanded the RAC program’s scope to all of Medicare, including managed Medicare plans and Medicaid claims, and required all states to enter into contracts with RACs by December 31, 2010. If a state was unable to implement a RAC program by the implementation date of January 1, 2012, then the state was required to request an exception by submitting to CMS a revised State Plan Amendment. Through December 31, 2012, more than 30 states have awarded Medicaid RAC contracts. The Health Care Reform Act also increased federal funding for Medicaid Integrity Contractors (private contractors that perform post- payment audits of Medicaid claims) for federal fiscal year 2011 and beyond. Additionally, several other contractors, including state Medicaid agencies, have increased their audit and review activities. The federal government may investigate and bring suit under the False Claims Act. Additionally, the False Claims Act permits private individuals to bring qui tam lawsuits, or “whistleblower” actions, against companies on behalf of the government, alleging that a hospital or health care provider has defrauded a federal or state government program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. As discussed under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we have been named, and in the future may be named, in qui tam actions. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in other such lawsuits of which we are not aware. Additionally, as further discussed under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we are subject to government False Claims Act investigations. If the government intervenes in a qui tam action, or brings its own False Claims Act action after an investigation, and prevails, the defendant may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Typically, each false bill submitted by a health care provider to the government is considered a separate false claim and, therefore, penalties under the False Claims Act can be substantial. If the government does not intervene in an action, the qui tam plaintiff may continue to pursue the action independently and the government may seek leave to intervene in the action later in the proceedings. As part of the resolution of a qui tam case, the party filing the initial complaint may share in a portion of any settlement or judgment. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity “knowingly” submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The False Claims Act defines the term “knowingly” broadly. Though simple negligence will not give rise to liability under the False Claims Act, submitting a claim with reckless disregard to its truth or falsity constitutes a “knowing” submission under the False Claims Act and, therefore, will qualify for liability. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 expanded the scope of the False Claims Act by, among other things, creating liability for knowingly and improperly avoiding repayment of an overpayment received from the government and broadening protections for whistleblowers. Under the Health Care Reform Act, the knowing failure to report and return an overpayment within 60 days of identifying the overpayment or by the date a corresponding cost report is due, whichever is later, constitutes a violation of the False Claims Act. Thus, if a provider is aware that it has retained an overpayment that 22 Table of Contents it has an obligation to refund, there may be a basis for a False Claims Act violation even if the provider did not know the claim was “false” when it was submitted. Further, the Health Care Reform Act expands the scope of the False Claims Act to cover payments in connection with the new health insurance exchanges if those payments include any federal funds. The Health Care Reform Act also significantly changes the False Claims Act by removing the jurisdictional bar for allegations based on publicly disclosed information and reducing the requirements for a qui tam relator to qualify as an “original source.” These changes may increase the False Claims Act exposure for health care providers by enabling a greater number of whistleblowers to bring claims. Many states, including Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas and Washington, have enacted laws with provisions that are similar to the False Claims Act. The states with such laws primarily use their false claims acts provisions to pursue Medicaid-related claims. We closely monitor our billing and other health care practices to maintain compliance with prevailing industry interpretations of applicable laws and regulations. As further discussed under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we are investigating our compliance in the areas that we believe are the subject of the government investigations, and we have undertaken a review of our compliance program. During 2012, an external review of our compliance program concluded that it meets the standards of an effective compliance program as set forth in the compliance guidance for hospitals issued by HHS-OIG, the standards of an effective compliance program as set forth in the U.S. Sentencing Commission Guidelines and the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, commonly referred to as HIPAA. We regularly review our compliance program and make changes from time to time and we continue to do so. Government investigations could also be initiated that are inconsistent with industry practices and prevailing interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In public statements, government authorities have from time to time taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation was available. Some of those positions appear to be inconsistent with practices that have been common within our industry and, in some cases, have not been challenged. Additionally, some government investigations that were previously conducted under civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under fraud and abuse laws, and certain government investigations that were previously handled administratively are now being conducted as either civil or criminal investigations under civil and criminal fraud and abuse laws. We cannot predict the outcome of existing government investigations and qui tam lawsuits or whether we will be the subject of future government investigations, inquiries or whistleblower lawsuits. Any determination that we have violated applicable laws or regulations or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations could harm our business and results of operations. Moreover, negative publicity regarding our government investigations, qui tam lawsuits and other related matters could adversely affect our ability to attract acquisition targets and/or joint venture partners, especially not-for-profit organizations. Government investigations, as well as qui tam lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government health care programs. Settlements of lawsuits involving Medicare and Medicaid issues routinely require monetary payments, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Given the complexity of the issues that are typically involved, legal fees and related costs associated with government investigations and qui tam and other similar lawsuits can be significant and could also have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Additionally, HHS-OIG regularly negotiates corporate integrity agreements, or CIAs, with health care providers as part of the settlement of federal health care program investigations arising under the False Claims Act and other laws. HHS-OIG has the power to exclude providers from federal health care programs and often threatens to exercise that power unless a provider agrees to the terms of a CIA. Although each CIA is different, there are some common provisions. For instance, a CIA generally lasts five years, requires the implementation of specified HHS-OIG compliance policies and procedures and mandates the retention of an independent review organization that is authorized to conduct reviews of the provider. If we were to enter into a CIA as part of a settlement with HHS-OIG in connection with any existing or future proceeding, these and other terms of a CIA could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. We could fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding patient privacy and patient information security that could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or harm our results of operations. There have been numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security standards related to patient information. In particular, federal regulations issued under HIPAA contain provisions that required us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and related financial information. For example, on January 17, 2013, HHS 23 Table of Contents announced a new Omnibus HIPAA rule that substantially modifies the existing provider and security regulations. HIPAA and other privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties and services on our behalf. We are also required to make certain expenditures to help ensure our continued compliance with such laws and regulations and, in the future, such expenses could negatively impact our results of operations. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, referred to as the Economic Stimulus Bill, included provisions for heightened enforcement of HIPAA and stiffer penalties for HIPAA violations. If we violate or fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or it might be necessary for us to increase the personnel, financial and technological resources we devote to our operations to achieve compliance. Moreover, a violation or failure to comply with any such laws or regulations could cause harm to our reputation which, in turn, could result in our patients seeking health care services at facilities that are not operated by us. If any of the foregoing events were to occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed. If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs, which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. The construction and operation of health care facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. Additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with the relevant standards. All of our hospitals (and substantially all of our laboratories, home health agencies and other health care facilities) are accredited, meaning that they are properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the Medicare program. The effect of maintaining accredited facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Should any of our health care facilities lose their accredited status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business and results of operations could be harmed. Because the requirements for accreditation are subject to modification, it may be necessary for us to affect changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services to maintain accreditation. Such changes could be expensive and could adversely affect our results of operations. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. The construction of new health care facilities, the acquisition of existing health care facilities and the addition of new beds or services at existing health care facilities may be reviewed by state regulatory agencies under certificate of need and similar laws. Except for Arkansas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Texas, all other states where our hospitals operate have certificate of need or similar laws. Such laws generally require state agency determination of public need and local agency approval prior to the construction of a new hospital facility and/or the addition of new beds or significant services to a hospital, or a related capital expenditure. Failure to obtain the necessary approvals in these states could: (i) result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement; (ii) make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs; (iii) result in the revocation of a facility’s license; or (iv) impose civil and criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We could fail to comply with the federal Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act of 1986, or EMTALA, which could subject us to civil monetary penalties or cause us to be excluded from participation in the Medicare program. All of our facilities are subject to EMTALA, which requires every hospital participating in the Medicare program to conduct a medical screening examination of each person presented for treatment at its emergency room. If a patient is in active labor or suffering from an emergency medical condition, the hospital must either stabilize that condition or make an appropriate transfer of the patient to a facility that can handle the condition, regardless of the patient’s ability to pay for care. EMTALA imposes severe penalties if a hospital fails to screen, appropriately stabilize or transfer a patient, or if a hospital delays service while first inquiring about the patient’s ability to pay. Such penalties include, but are not limited to, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition to civil monetary penalties, an aggrieved patient, a patient’s family or a medical facility that ultimately suffers a financial loss as a direct result of a transferring hospital’s EMTALA violation can commence a civil suit under EMTALA. Although we believe that our facilities comply with EMTALA, there can be no assurances that claims will not be brought against us and, if successfully asserted against one or more of our hospitals, such claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased state regulation of the rates we charge for our services could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently operate one hospital in West Virginia, a state that requires us to submit annual requests for increases in our rates. Accordingly, the operating margins for our West Virginia hospital may be adversely affected if we are unable to increase our rates as our expenses increase, or if the rates we charge are decreased as a result of regulatory action. If other states in which we operate enact similar rate-setting laws, those actions could harm our business and results of operations. We are presently the subject of legal proceedings that, if resolved unfavorably, could have an adverse effect on us. We are a party to various ongoing government investigations, legal proceedings and other related matters, which are described under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our current legal proceedings, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a materially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. As described above in further detail, government investigations, as well as qui tam lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government health care programs. Settlements of lawsuits involving Medicare and Medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Continued weak economic conditions could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our future patient volume, the ability to collect our accounts receivable and our overall future results of operations could be materially adversely impacted by a continuation of the current weak economic conditions, especially levels of unemployment that are substantially higher than historical trends. While certain health care spending is considered non-discretionary and may not be significantly impacted by economic downturns, other types of health care spending may be adversely impacted by these conditions. When individuals are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals. Moreover, a greater number of uninsured patients may seek care in our emergency rooms. We believe that a persistent weak economy could: (i) increase the number of uninsured people, which would likely increase our costs for uncompensated patient care; (ii) reduce our revenue due to decreased funding from Medicaid and other state health care programs that are struggling financially; (iii) reduce the number of elective surgeries and other procedures performed at our hospitals and other health care facilities; and (iv) threaten the solvency of managed care health plans and others that do business with us, each of which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. The health care industry trend toward value-based purchasing may adversely impact our revenue and results of operations. There is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. Value-based purchasing programs include public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of the care provided. Certain government programs, including Medicare, require hospitals to report quality data in order to receive full reimbursement updates. Additionally, Medicare will not reimburse hospitals for care related to some preventable adverse events, known as “never events.” Furthermore, many large commercial payors also require hospitals to report quality data and will refuse reimbursement for never events. 25 Table of Contents We expect value-based purchasing programs, such as programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are not able to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations; however, if we cannot consistently meet the required quality measures, there could be a negative impact on our reimbursement rates and revenue, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Growth in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients or deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could adversely affect our results of operations. The principal collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts required by the applicable agreement but patient responsibility amounts (e.g., deductibles, co-payments, other amounts not covered by insurance, etc.) remain outstanding. Our provision for doubtful accounts provides for, among other things, amounts due from such patients. The determination of the amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on, among other things, our assessment of historical cash collections and accounts receivable write-offs, expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer health care coverage and other relevant key indicators. If we experience significant increases in uninsured and underinsured patients and/or uncollectible accounts receivable, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as the provisions of EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide further medical treatment as is required to stabilize the patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for the transfer of such patient to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital’s written procedures. If our volume of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions increases significantly, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. The Health Care Reform Act seeks to decrease, over time, the uninsured population. Among other things, the Health Care Reform Act will, effective January 1, 2014, expand Medicaid eligibility and incentivize employers to offer, and require individuals to carry, health insurance or be subject to penalties. Even after full implementation of the Health Care Reform Act, we may continue to experience a high level of uncollectible accounts and provide discounts to, and charity care for, certain individuals who are not enrolled in a health care program under the law. If government programs or managed care companies reduce the payments we receive as reimbursement for the health care services we provide, whether as a result of the implementation of the Health Care Reform Act or otherwise, our revenue could decline and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from federal and state government reimbursement programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Such programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning, among other things: (i) patient eligibility requirements and the method of calculating payments or reimbursement; (ii) requirements for utilization review activities; and (iii) federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease the payments to us in the future, as well as affect the timing of such payments. Previous changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. Specifically, the Health Care Reform Act provides for significant reductions in the growth of Medicare program spending, including reductions in market basket update factors and disproportionate share payments. Reductions to our Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement by the Health Care Reform Act could harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations, especially in the short-term before we experience any potential increases in revenue from providing care to previously uninsured individuals. Pressure on federal and state programs, which has increased as a result of the prolonged economic downturn, may also impact the availability of taxpayer funds for the Medicare and Medicaid programs. For example, a number of states are experiencing substantial budget shortfalls and, as a result, have adopted legislation, or are considering legislation, designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and/or reduce the number of Medicaid enrollees. We are unable to predict the potential effects that future government health care funding policy changes will have on our operations. Moreover, in response to the Health Care Reform Act and state budgetary fiscal pressures, many states are seeking waivers and demonstration program approval from CMS with respect to their Medicaid programs. The proposals are varied and include, among other things, features such as mandatory managed care, capitated managed care and a prioritized list of health care services to define a state program’s benefit package. We cannot predict which, if any, of these or other waivers and demonstrations will be permitted within the states where we operate. If the rates paid by government payors are reduced or if the scope of services covered by government payors is limited, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, third party payors, including managed care health plans, are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through, among other means, capitation arrangements under which health care providers are paid a fixed fee per enrolled participant, regardless of the level of services provided to that participant. Efforts by third parties to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and enforce stringent cost controls are expected to continue. In fact, as the Health Care Reform Act is implemented over time, third party payors may increasingly demand reduced fees. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms that are favorable to us. It would harm our business if we were unable to enter into arrangements with managed care health plans on economic terms that are acceptable to us. Material reductions in the payments that we receive for our services or difficulties collecting our accounts receivable from managed care health plans could each adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are not able to comply with the maintenance of effort provisions under the Health Care Reform Act, our business and results of operations could be harmed. The Health Care Reform Act includes a maintenance of effort provision, or MOE, which is designed to preserve existing Medicaid coverage until the Health Care Reform Act is fully implemented. The MOE provision requires states to maintain their current Medicaid eligibility standards, methodologies and procedures until the Secretary of HHS determines that a state health insurance exchange is fully operational in the respective state. States may reduce eligibility for certain non-pregnant, non-adult populations with incomes over 133% of the federal poverty level, if the state certifies to the Secretary of HHS that the state will operate a budget deficit or is projected to have a budget deficit. On June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled on the constitutionality of the Health Care Reform Act but determined that the Medicaid expansion provisions thereunder were implementable at the option of each individual state. Since that ruling, some states have argued that the MOE provision of the Health Care Reform Act was invalidated. At the same time, as a result of budgetary constraints, a number of states have sought to reduce Medicaid eligibility. The State of Maine has taken action to set the stage for a legal challenge to the MOE provision insofar as the state filed a motion for injunctive relief with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. Although the court denied the state’s request, Maine is expected to continue litigation and is likely to challenge the MOE provision on the same basis that the Health Care Reform Act’s Medicaid expansion requirement was challenged. Several states have expressed interest in joining this challenge in an effort to control burgeoning budget deficits. We are not able to predict how this litigation or other similar litigation might affect our business; however, if states are permitted to reduce Medicaid coverage and eligibility, there could be a negative impact on our Medicaid reimbursement, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If unfavorable Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement changes result from the Budget Control Act of 2011 or Congressional action in response to the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, our business and results of operations could be harmed. The Budget Control Act of 2011, or the BCA, was enacted on August 2, 2011. Among other things, the BCA (i) increased the federal debt ceiling by approximately $900 billion and (ii) immediately cut and capped federal discretionary spending, excluding the Medicare and Medicaid programs, thereby saving an estimated $917 billion over the next ten years. The BCA also established the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the “Deficit Reduction Committee”), a twelve-member bipartisan joint committee of Congress. The primary goal of the Deficit Reduction Committee was to propose legislation by November 23, 2011 to further reduce the federal deficit by $1.5 trillion over the next ten years. Those deficit reduction measures were expected to be in addition to those already contained in the Health Care Reform Act. Pursuant to the BCA, if the legislation proposed by the Deficit Reduction Committee was not approved by Congress by December 23, 2011 and enacted into law by January 15, 2012 or if the Congressionally approved legislation did not achieve a federal deficit reduction in an amount of at least $1.2 trillion, then spending cuts aggregating $1.2 trillion over the next ten years (less any amount that resulted from earlier Congressional action) split equally between defense and non-defense programs, known as “sequestration,” were scheduled to automatically begin in January 2013. Although the Deficit Reduction Committee failed to propose legislation, on January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or ATRA, which delayed mandatory sequestration actions until March 1, 2013. Among other things, ATRA will reduce Medicare expenditures by approximately $30 billion over the next ten years. Absent further Congressional action, the reductions and spending cuts dictated by the BCA, which are required to be split between defense and non-defense programs, are scheduled to take effect on March 1, 2013. Payments to Medicare providers are included in the automatic spending cuts; however, the BCA provides that Medicare payments may be reduced by no more than 2% and certain other programs, including Medicaid, are exempt from the automatic spending cuts. At this time, we are unable to determine how the spending cuts required by the BCA or subsequent Congressional action in response to ATRA will affect Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement in the future; however, significant reimbursement reductions or other program modifications that result therefrom could harm our business and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Our substantial borrowings have, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our business and may affect our ability to secure additional financing when needed. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $3.6 billion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations, as well as availability of $446.5 million under a long-term revolving credit facility. Our ability to service, repay or refinance our indebtedness or secure additional capital resources to fund our operational, acquisition and other growth strategies will depend on, among other things, our future operating performance. Those operating results may be affected by general economic, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. We believe that our future cash flow from operating activities, together with currently available and potentially new financing arrangements, will be sufficient to fund our operating, strategic growth, capital expenditure and debt service requirements. However, if we fail to meet our financial obligations or if supplemental financing is not available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, our business could be harmed. Our substantial leverage, debt service requirements and covenant restrictions/limitations could have other important consequences to us, including, but not limited to, the following: — Our senior secured credit facilities, which are described at Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, and the indentures governing our senior notes and our convertible senior subordinated notes contain, and any future debt obligations that we incur will likely contain, covenants and restrictions that, among other things, require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. If we do not comply with these or other financial covenants in those arrangements, an event of default may result, which, if not cured or waived, could require us to immediately repay or refinance our indebtedness. Additionally, an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders to terminate all commitments to extend further credit to us under such facility. Furthermore, if we become unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event that our lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Moreover, covenant violations could also subject us to higher interest and financing costs on our debt obligations and our credit ratings could be adversely affected. — In the event of a default under one or more of our debt arrangements, we may be forced to pursue alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling core assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effectuated on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that sufficient funds could be obtained to make required debt service payments. Additionally, a debt restructuring could subject us to higher interest and financing costs and our credit ratings could be adversely affected. — In the event of higher interest rates in the marketplace, we could be exposed to higher interest and financing costs on our variable rate long-term borrowings. — We are required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which may reduce the amount of discretionary funds available for our other operational needs and growth objectives. — Because of the need for increased cash flow to service our debt arrangements, we may be more vulnerable to a decline in our business, changes in the health care industry or prolonged weak economic conditions. — Our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the health care industry may be limited. — We may be at a disadvantage in the markets where our hospitals and other health care facilities operate when compared to our competitors and peers that have less debt or less restrictive covenants. — We may be limited in our ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes on acceptable terms on a timely basis, or at all. 28 Table of Contents The terms of our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes and our convertible senior subordinated notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to take certain actions, which could harm our business. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes and our convertible senior subordinated notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operational and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Among other things, those covenants impose restrictions on our ability to: — incur additional indebtedness; — pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; — prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; — make loans and investments; — consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets; — incur liens; — grant additional security interests and provide new guarantees; — enter into transactions with affiliates; — enter into sale-leaseback transactions; — invest in joint ventures and make capital expenditures; and — alter the businesses we conduct. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: (i) limited in how we conduct our business; (ii) unable to raise additional debt or equity financing when necessary or desirable; or (iii) unable to compete effectively or take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions could materially affect our ability to grow our business in accordance with our strategic operational and growth initiatives, which would harm our business. If credit markets become unstable and we are not able to access them to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms when needed or desirable, our business could be materially harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to secure additional capital resources to fund our operational and growth strategies may depend on our ability to access the credit markets. During the past few years, credit markets have experienced unstable conditions and, for a period of time, they were essentially unavailable due to a severe banking crisis. We cannot predict whether we will be able to access the credit markets when necessary or desirable. If we are not able to access credit markets and obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms when needed, our business could be materially harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Controls designed by third parties to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenue. Controls imposed by third party payors that are designed to reduce admissions and average length of hospital stays, commonly referred to as “utilization reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our operations. Utilization reviews entail an evaluation of a patient’s admission and course of treatment by managed care health plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively impacted by payor-required pre-admission authorization, utilization reviews and payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose stringent cost controls are expected to continue. For example, the Health Care Reform Act expands the use of prepayment and postpayment reviews by Medicare and Medicaid contractors. Although we cannot predict the effect that these changes will have on our operations, limitations on the scope of services for which we are reimbursed and/or downward pressure on reimbursement rates and fees as a result of utilization reviews could adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur liabilities not covered by our insurance or which exceed our insurance limits, or a party to our insurance program could become insolvent or otherwise not meet its contractual obligations. In the ordinary course of business, our subsidiary hospitals and other health care facilities and our physician practices are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits and other legal actions. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. We self-insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks. Based on our past experience and current actuarial estimates, we believe that our insurance coverage and our self-insurance reserves are sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our subsidiary hospitals and other health care facilities and our physician practices. However, if payments for indemnity claims and related expenses exceed our estimates or if payments are required to be made by us that are not covered by insurance, our business could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Also, one or more of the unrelated insurance and reinsurance companies that provide us coverage could become insolvent or otherwise be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our facilities are heavily concentrated in Florida, Mississippi and Tennessee, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic and competitive changes in those states, as well as the harmful effects of hurricanes and other severe weather activity in regions in and around the Gulf of Mexico. As of December 31, 2012, we operated 70 hospitals, including 41 in Florida, Mississippi and Tennessee. Our home office is also located in Florida. Such geographic concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions in those states. Any material changes in those factors in Florida, Mississippi or Tennessee could have a disproportionate effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, regions in and around the Gulf of Mexico commonly experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. As a result, certain of our health care facilities, especially those in Florida and Mississippi, and our home office are susceptible to physical damage and business interruption from an active hurricane season or a single severe storm. Moreover, global climate change could increase the intensity of individual hurricanes or the number of hurricanes that occur each year. Even if our facilities are not directly damaged, we may experience considerable disruptions in our operations due to property damage experienced in storm-affected areas by our patients, physicians, payors, vendors and others. Additionally, long-term adverse weather conditions, whether caused by global climate change or otherwise, could cause an outmigration of people from the communities where our hospitals are located. If any of the circumstances described above occurred, there could be a harmful effect on our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected. The failure of certain employers or the closure of certain facilities could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals and harm our business. The economies in the non-urban communities where our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. Those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. The failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions. However, we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals and other ancillary health care businesses that meet our target criteria. We may also have difficulty acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny and other restrictions. Acquisitions of general acute care hospitals and other ancillary health care businesses in non-urban markets are part of our overall growth strategy. We face competition for potential acquisition targets primarily from other for-profit health care companies. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. Additionally, many states have enacted, or from time to time consider enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from state attorneys general, advance notification and community involvement. Moreover, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise broad discretionary authority over such transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide increased regulatory review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction where a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential buyers could make it more difficult for us to acquire hospitals and other ancillary health care businesses, increase our acquisition costs and/or make it difficult for us to complete acquisitions that otherwise meet our target criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. The Health Care Reform Act restricts our ability to enter into new joint ventures with physicians and subjects our existing joint ventures to substantial limitations. These restrictions may have an adverse effect on our business. At a number of our hospitals, we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of the facility. Such arrangements were entered into under a provision of the Stark law that allowed physicians to invest in an entire hospital. Such provision is commonly referred to as the “whole hospital” exception. The Health Care Reform Act changed the whole hospital exception such that existing physician investments in a whole hospital are only permitted to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements. However, physicians are now prohibited from increasing their aggregate ownership percentage in any grandfathered joint venture hospital and/or entering into new hospital joint ventures. The Health Care Reform Act also restricts the ability of existing physician-owned hospitals to expand the number of operating rooms, procedure rooms and licensed beds that they operate. Ultimately, we may be unable to expand the services at our affected hospitals and/or effectively compete in certain markets if the Health Care Reform Act or other laws and regulations materially restrict our grandfathered joint venture hospitals from increasing their operating rooms, procedure rooms and licensed beds, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. 30 Table of Contents We may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations. Prior to their acquisition, many of the hospitals we acquire were experiencing operating losses or had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate. We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems at those hospitals. Integrating an acquired hospital can be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect our cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. Acquired hospitals require transitions from, and the integration of, operations, personnel and information systems. If we are unable to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively and timely integrate their operations, our results of operations could be harmed. The availability of approved Medicare and Medicaid provider numbers may be delayed following our acquisition of a hospital. Following an acquisition, we generally seek approval to use the predecessor hospital’s provider numbers for Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain the necessary approvals to use such provider numbers on a timely basis, our receipt of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement could be delayed. Such delays could temporarily harm our cash flows. If we acquire hospitals or other ancillary health care businesses with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Hospitals and other ancillary health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers’ compensation liabilities, tax liabilities and liabilities for unacceptable business practices. Although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition activities of the hospitals and other ancillary health care facilities that we acquire. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. Other hospitals and freestanding outpatient facilities provide services similar to ours, which may raise the level of competition we face and adversely affect our results of operations. The health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers has intensified in recent years. In some of the geographic areas where we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals and other health care facilities. Some of those competitor hospitals are owned by government agencies and supported by tax revenue and others are owned by not-for-profit corporations and may be supported, in part, by endowments and charitable contributions. Such support is not available to our hospitals. In some cases, our competitors may be a significant distance away from our facilities; however, patients in our markets may migrate, may be referred by local physicians or may be required by their health plan to travel to these hospitals for care. Furthermore, some of our competitors may be better equipped than us and can offer a broader range of services than we do. Additionally, outpatient treatment and diagnostic imaging facilities, outpatient surgical centers, specialized care providers (e.g., oncology, physical therapy, etc.) and freestanding ambulatory surgical centers (each of which may have physician ownership interests) have increased in number and accessibility in recent years. This broader selection of health care facilities in the communities that we serve has challenged our market share. If our hospitals and other health care facilities are not able to effectively attract patients, our business and results of operations could be harmed. If we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. In recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. CMS publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the Medicare program. Federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. Additionally, the Health Care Reform Act requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. If any of our hospitals achieve poor results on their quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and/or pricing. Either of these circumstances could harm our business and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. Physicians make admitting and other decisions regarding the appropriate course of patient treatment, which, in turn, affect hospital revenue. Therefore, the success of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on their medical staffs, the admitting practices of those physicians and continued good relations with such physicians. Many of the physicians working at our hospitals are not our employees and, in a number of markets that we serve, they have admitting privileges at hospitals other than our own. If we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet physicians’ needs, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, we could find it difficult to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities where our hospitals are located. An inability to recruit physicians to those communities or the loss of physicians in those communities could make it difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby harm our business and results of operations. On a national level, a shortage of physicians is a possible unintended consequence of the Health Care Reform Act. The millions of uninsured individuals who will obtain insurance under the new law will eventually be in need of primary care and other physicians, whose numbers may not increase proportionately. In the future, this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified physicians or require us to hire expensive temporary and per diem personnel. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. The technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. To compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. If our hospitals do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. Our hospitals face competition for medical support staff, including nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and other personnel, which may increase our labor costs and adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on our experienced medical support personnel, including nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, seasoned local hospital management and other medical personnel. We compete with other health care providers to recruit and retain these health care professionals. On a national level, a shortage of nurses and certain other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue for a number of health care providers. In the future, this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain such personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary and per diem personnel. Additionally, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. Changes in federal labor laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretations of such laws and regulations, could increase the likelihood of unionization at our facilities. If our wages and related expenses rise, we may not be able to correspondingly increase our reimbursement rates. Our inability to recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or our inability to modulate labor costs could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. We depend heavily on key management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and the efforts, ability and experience of key members of our local hospital management teams. We do not maintain employment agreements with our management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or a significant portion of our local hospital management teams could significantly weaken our ability to efficiently deliver health care services, which could harm our business. Our business could be harmed by a failure of our proprietary information technology system. The performance of our proprietary management information system, known as the Pulse System®, is critical to our business operations. Any failure that causes a material interruption in the availability of the Pulse System® could adversely affect our operations or delay our cash collections. Although we have implemented antivirus, network security and disaster recovery measures, our servers could become vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and disruptions from unauthorized tampering, hurricane-related failures and other extreme weather conditions. Any of these circumstances could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or a general lack of availability of the Pulse System®, each of which could harm our business and results of operations. Moreover, in the event of a failure of the Pulse System®, we may be required to devote substantial personnel, financial and technological resources to correct any then existing deficiencies and/or enhance the system design to prevent such a failure from occurring again, which could also harm our business and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be harmed. As required by the portion of the Economic Stimulus Bill commonly referred to as “HITECH,” CMS has developed and is implementing an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record technology. HHS is using the Provider Enrollment, Chain and Ownership System, or PECOS, to verify Medicare enrollment prior to making electronic health record incentive program payments. If our hospitals or physician practices are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, including having an enrollment record in PECOS, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing and maintaining an electronic health record system. Further, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare. Any failure by us to effectively implement an electronic health record system in a timely manner, or maintain compliant systems, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. HITECH provides that patients have the right to receive information regarding their treatment and the payments made for their health care services during the three years prior to their request. HHS released a proposed rule on May 31, 2011 that would require hospitals and health care professionals to keep records about not only disclosures of, but also internal access to, certain patient health records. If implemented, such proposed rule would mean that, among other things, patients would have a right to request the names of every person who viewed their records. If implemented in its current form, the proposed rule could require us to devote significant resources to further enhance our recordkeeping systems. If we are unable to implement and maintain the new “ICD-10 coding system,” our business, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Managed care health plans, commercial payors and health care providers, including our hospitals, are required to transition to the new ICD-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of billing codes used for inpatient claims. Pursuant to the current regulations, use of the ICD-10 coding system will be required on October 1, 2015. Transition to the ICD-10 coding system will require a significant investment in technology and software, as well as staff training. It is possible that we could experience disruptions to, or delays in, reimbursement from payors for the services that our hospitals render due to technical problems, coding errors or other implementation issues involving our systems or the systems and implementation efforts of managed care health plans, other commercial payors and their business partners. Furthermore, the new ICD-10 coding system could result in lower levels of reimbursement to us than the existing system coding (i.e., ICD-9). If we experience difficulties implementing and maintaining the new ICD-10 coding system, costs beyond our expectations and/or delays/reductions in our reimbursement from payors, our business, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 33 Table of Contents 