ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K: The Company's business is subject to overall economic conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the Company. The Company is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact customer shipping volumes. Beginning in 2003 and continuing throughout 2005, general economic improvements led to improved freight demand. Factors that may have contributed to lower freight demand in the second half of 2006 were inventory tightening by some large retailers, some shippers shifting to more intermodal intact container shipments for lower value freight, and moderating economic growth. Future economic conditions that may affect the Company include employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, and tax rates. Increases in fuel prices and shortages of fuel can have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and profitability of the Company. Fuel prices climbed steadily through the first eight months of 2006, averaging 51 cents a gallon higher than the same period of 2005. However, in the last four months of 2006, fuel costs averaged 17 cents a gallon lower than the same period of 2005, principally due to the temporary spike in fuel prices that occurred in October 2005 after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Fuel prices subsequently declined from these record levels in November 2005. Shortages of fuel, increases in fuel prices, or rationing of petroleum products can have a materially adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the Company. To the extent that the Company cannot recover the higher cost of fuel through customer fuel surcharges, the Company's financial results would be negatively impacted. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining drivers and owner- operators could impact the Company's results of operations and limit growth opportunities. At times, there have been shortages of drivers in the trucking industry. The market for recruiting and retaining drivers has become more difficult over the last several years due to changing workforce demographics and alternative job opportunities in an improving economy. However, during fourth quarter 2006, the driver recruiting and retention market was less difficult than the extremely challenging market experienced earlier in the year. During the last several years, it was more difficult to recruit and retain owner-operator drivers due to challenging operating conditions, including high fuel prices. The Company anticipates that the competition for company drivers and owner-operator drivers will continue to be high and cannot predict whether it will experience shortages in the future. If a shortage of company drivers and owner-operators were to occur and increases in driver pay rates and owner-operator settlement rates became necessary to attract drivers and owner-operators, the Company's results of operations would be negatively impacted to the extent that corresponding freight rate increases were not obtained. Additionally, the Company expects the tight driver market will make it very difficult to add truck capacity in the near future. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry, which may limit growth opportunities and reduce profitability. The trucking industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of trucking companies. The Company estimates the ten largest truckload carriers have about 11% of the approximate $180 billion market targeted by the Company. This competition could limit the Company's growth opportunities and reduce its profitability. The Company competes primarily with other 7 truckload carriers. Logistics companies, railroads, less-than- truckload carriers, and private carriers also provide competition, but to a lesser degree. Competition for the freight transported by the Company is based primarily on service and efficiency and, to some degree, on freight rates alone. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry. Changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have an adverse effect on the operations and profitability of the Company. The Company is regulated by the DOT, the Federal and Provincial Transportation Departments in Canada, and the SCT in Mexico and may become subject to new or more comprehensive regulations mandated by these agencies. These regulatory authorities establish broad powers, generally governing activities such as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, financial reporting, and other matters. In July 2006, the Company formed WGL, a separate company that operates within the VAS segment, and through its subsidiaries established its WOFE headquartered in Shanghai, China. WGL and its subsidiaries obtained business licenses to operate as an Ocean Transport Intermediary (NVOCC and Ocean Freight Forwarder), U.S. Customs Broker, Class A Freight Forwarder in China, and an Indirect Air Carrier. WGL has applied for status as an endorsed IATA member and other offices in foreign locations will be applying for status in their respective countries. On January 18, 2007, the FMCSA published an NPRM in the Federal Register on the use of EOBRs by the trucking industry for compliance with HOS rules. Comments on the NPRM must be received by April 18, 2007. While the Company does not believe the rule, as proposed, would have a significant effect on operations and profitability, it will continue to monitor future developments. Beginning in January 2007, all newly manufactured truck engines must comply with a new set of more stringent engine emission standards mandated by the EPA. The Company expects that the engines produced under the 2007 standards will be less fuel- efficient and have a higher cost than the current engines. A third and final set of more stringent emissions standards mandated by the EPA will become effective for newly manufactured trucks beginning in January 2010. The seasonal pattern generally experienced in the trucking industry may affect the Company's periodic results during traditionally slower shipping periods and during the winter months. The Company's business is modestly seasonal with peak freight demand occurring generally in the months of September, October, and November. After the Christmas holiday season, during the remaining winter months, the Company's freight volumes are typically lower as some customers have lower shipment levels. The Company's operating expenses have historically been higher in winter months primarily due to decreased fuel efficiency, increased maintenance costs of revenue equipment in colder weather, and increased insurance and claims costs due to adverse winter weather conditions. The Company attempts to minimize the impact of seasonality through its marketing program by seeking additional freight from certain customers during traditionally slower shipping periods. Bad weather, holidays, and the number of business days during the period can also affect revenue, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. We depend on key customers, the loss of which or the financial failure of which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. A significant portion of the Company's revenue is generated from several key customers. During 2006, the Company's top 25, 10 and 5 customers accounted for 58%, 37% and 26% of revenues, respectively. The Company's largest customer, Dollar General, accounted for 11% of the Company's revenues in 2006. The Company does not have long-term contractual relationships with many of its key non-dedicated customers. The Company's contractual relationships with its dedicated customers are typically one to three years in length which are cancelable on 90 days notice following the expiration of the initial term of the contract. There can be no assurance that relationships with any key customers will continue at the same levels. A reduction in or termination of the Company's services by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. The Company reviews the financial condition of its customers prior to granting credit, monitors changes in financial condition on an on-going basis, and reviews individual past due balances and collection concerns. However the financial failure of a customer may still have a negative effect on the Company's results of operations. 8 The Company depends on the services of third-party capacity providers, the availability of which could affect the Company's profitability and limit growth in its VAS division. The Company's VAS division is highly dependent on the services of third-party capacity providers, including other truckload carriers, less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, ocean carriers, and airlines. Many of those providers face the same economic challenges as the Company. The softer freight market in the second half of 2006 made it somewhat easier to find qualified truckload capacity to meet customer freight needs for our truck brokerage operation. The Company currently anticipates that the recent excess truck capacity in the market will gradually reverse, and capacity may tighten as we move toward the fall peak season of 2007. If the Company were unable to secure the services of these third-party capacity providers, its results of operations could be adversely affected. Increases in the number of insurance claims, the cost per claim, the costs of insurance premiums, or the availability of insurance coverage could reduce the Company's earnings. The Company self-insures for a significant portion of liability resulting from personal injury, property damage, and cargo loss as well as workers' compensation. This is supplemented by premium insurance with licensed and highly-rated insurance companies above the Company's self-insurance level for each type of coverage. To the extent the Company were to experience a significant increase in the number of claims, the cost per claim, or the costs of insurance premiums for coverage in excess of its retention amounts, the Company's operating results would be negatively affected. Decreased demand for the Company's used revenue equipment could result in lower unit sales, lower resale values, and lower gains on sales of assets. The Company is sensitive to changes in used equipment prices, especially tractors. The Company has been in the business of selling its Company-owned trucks since 1992, when it formed its wholly-owned subsidiary Fleet Truck Sales. The Company has 18 Fleet Truck Sales locations throughout the United States. During 2006, the Company began selling its oldest van trailers that had reached the end of their depreciable life. Gains on sales of assets are reflected as a reduction of other operating expenses in the Company's income statement and amounted to gains of $28.4 million in 2006, $11.0 million in 2005, and $9.3 million in 2004. The Company relies on the services of key personnel, the loss of which could impact the future success of the Company. The Company is highly dependent on the services of key personnel including Clarence L. Werner, Gary L. Werner, and Gregory L. Werner, and other executive officers. Although the Company believes it has an experienced and highly qualified management group, the loss of the services of these executive officers could have a material adverse impact on the Company and its future profitability. Difficulty in obtaining goods and services from the Company's vendors and suppliers could adversely affect the Company's business. The Company is dependent on its vendors and suppliers. The Company believes it has good relationships with its vendors and that it is generally able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors and suppliers. If the Company fails to maintain good relationships with its vendors and suppliers or if its vendors and suppliers experience significant financial problems, the Company could face difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services because of interruptions of production or for other reasons, which could adversely affect the Company's business. The Company uses its information systems extensively for day-to- day operations, and service disruptions could have an adverse impact on the Company's operations. The efficient operation of the Company's business is highly dependent on its information systems. Much of the Company's software has been developed internally or by adapting purchased software applications to the Company's needs. The Company has purchased redundant computer hardware systems and has its own off-site disaster recovery facility approximately ten miles from the Company's offices to use in the event of a disaster. The Company has taken these steps to reduce the risk of disruption to its business operation if a disaster were to occur. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements made herein, since the statements speak only as of the date they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward- 9 looking statements contained herein to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2006 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 