ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results, business, financial condition and cash flows to materially differ from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements made herein because such statements speak only to the date they were made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect subsequent events or circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events. Also refer to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward- Looking Statements in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K. 8 Our business is subject to overall economic conditions that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact customer shipping volumes. In 2008, the overall U.S. economy fluctuated and weakened in the last four months of the year. We believe that our customers, and retailers generally, responded to these financial market conditions by shipping less freight. We also believe other factors that may have contributed to lower customer shipping volumes and flat to lower freight rates were (i) inventory tightening and reductions by retailers and other customers, (ii) excess truck capacity and (iii) weakness in the retail, housing, and manufacturing sectors. When shipping volumes decline, pricing generally becomes more competitive as carriers compete for loads to maintain truck productivity. We may be negatively affected by future economic conditions including employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, interest rates and tax rates. Increases in fuel prices and shortages of fuel can have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and profitability. Fuel prices in 2008 averaged 76 cents per gallon higher than 2007. Prices climbed in the first half of the year and fell during the last half of the year. When fuel prices rise rapidly, a negative earnings lag occurs because the cost of fuel rises immediately and the market indexes used to determine fuel surcharges increase at a slower pace. This was the trend during the first half of 2008. In a period of declining fuel prices, we generally experience a temporary favorable earnings effect because fuel costs decline at a faster pace than the market indexes used to determine fuel surcharge collections. This was the trend during the second half of 2008 as fuel prices decreased and resulted in temporarily lower net fuel expense, which partially offset uncompensated fuel costs resulting from truck idling, empty miles not billable to customers and out-of-route miles. If fuel prices remain stable or increase in the future, we do not expect the temporary favorable trend to continue. Fuel shortages, increases in fuel prices and petroleum product rationing can have a material adverse impact on our operations and profitability. We cannot predict whether fuel prices will increase or decrease in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges will be collected from customers. To the extent that we cannot recover the higher cost of fuel through customer fuel surcharges, our financial results would be negatively impacted. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified and student drivers and owner-operators could impact our results of operations and limit growth opportunities. At times, the trucking industry has experienced driver shortages. Driver availability may be affected by changing workforce demographics and alternative employment opportunities in the economy. However, recent weakness in the construction and automotive industries, trucking company failures and fleet reductions and a rising national unemployment rate continue to positively affect our driver availability and selectivity. Consequently, the driver recruiting and retention market has improved from a year ago. In addition, we believe our strong mileage utilization and financial strength are attractive to drivers when compared to other carriers. We anticipate that availability of drivers will remain high until current economic conditions improve. When economic conditions improve, competition for qualified drivers will likely increase, and we cannot predict whether we will experience future driver shortages. If such a shortage were to occur and driver pay rate increases were necessary to attract and retain drivers, our results of operations would be negatively impacted to the extent that we could not obtain corresponding freight rate increases. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which may limit growth opportunities and reduce profitability. The trucking industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of trucking companies. We estimate the ten largest truckload carriers have about 9% of the approximate $180 billion U.S. market we target. This competition could limit our growth opportunities and reduce our profitability. We compete primarily with other truckload carriers in our Truckload segment. Logistics companies, railroads, less-than-truckload carriers and private carriers also provide a lesser degree of competition in our Truckload segment, but such carriers are more direct competitors in our VAS segment. Competition for the freight we transport or manage is based primarily on service and efficiency and, to some degree, on freight rates alone. 9 We operate in a highly regulated industry. Changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could adversely affect our operations and profitability. We are regulated by the DOT, the federal and provincial Transportation Departments in Canada, the SCT in Mexico and the Ministry of Transportation in China and may become subject to new or more comprehensive regulations mandated by these agencies. We are also regulated by agencies in certain U.S. states. These regulatory agencies have the authority and power to govern transportation-related activities, such as safety, financial reporting, authorization to conduct motor carrier operations and other matters. The subsidiaries of WGL have business licenses to operate as a U.S. NVOCC, U.S. Customs Broker, Class A Freight Forwarder in China, China NVOCC, TSA-approved Indirect Air Carrier and IATA Accredited Cargo Agent. The loss of any of these business licenses could adversely impact the operations of WGL. On January 18, 2007, the FMCSA published an NPRM in the Federal Register on the trucking industry's use of EOBRs for compliance with HOS rules. Comments on the NPRM were to be received by April 18, 2007. On January 23, 2009, the FMCSA withdrew the proposed rule for reconsideration. We do not believe the rule, as proposed, would significantly affect our operations and profitability, and we will continue to monitor future developments. California has enacted restrictions on TRU emissions that require companies to operate compliant TRUs in California. On January 9, 2009 the EPA issued California a waiver from preemption (as published in the Federal Register on January 16, 2009), which enables California to phase in its regulations over several years beginning July 17, 2009. For compliance purposes, we have started the TRU registration process in California, and we are currently evaluating our options and alternatives for meeting these requirements in 2009 and over the next several years as the regulations gradually become effective. As of January 2007, all newly manufactured truck engines must comply with the EPA's more stringent engine emissions standards. Trucks manufactured with the new engines produced under these 2007 standards have higher purchase prices, are less fuel-efficient and result in increased maintenance costs. A final set of more rigorous EPA emissions standards will become effective in January 2010 and apply to all new truck engines manufactured after that date. We are evaluating our options to prepare for compliance with the 2010 standards, but we are unable to predict at this time to what extent such standards will affect us or what the impact will be. The seasonal pattern generally experienced in the trucking industry may affect our periodic results during traditionally slower shipping periods and winter months. In the trucking industry, revenues generally show a seasonal pattern. Peak freight demand has historically occurred in the months of September, October and November; however, we have not experienced this seasonal increase in demand during the last three years. After the December holiday season and during the remaining winter months, our freight volumes are typically lower because some customers reduce shipment levels. Our operating expenses have historically been higher in winter months primarily due to decreased fuel efficiency, increased cold weather-related maintenance costs of revenue equipment and increased insurance and claims costs due to adverse winter weather conditions. We attempt to minimize the impact of seasonality by seeking additional freight from certain customers during traditionally slower shipping periods. Bad weather, holidays and the number of business days during a quarterly period can also affect revenue because revenue is directly related to the available working days of shippers. We depend on key customers, the loss or financial failure of which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from key customers. During 2008, our top 5, 10 and 25 customers accounted for 24%, 39% and 61% of revenues, respectively. No customer exceeded 10% of our revenues in 2008, and our largest customer accounted for 6% of our revenues in 2008. We do not have long-term contractual relationships with many of our key non-dedicated customers. Our contractual relationships with our dedicated customers are typically one to three years in length and may be terminated upon 90 days' notice following the expiration of the contract's first year. We cannot provide any assurance that key customer relationships will continue at the same levels. If a significant customer reduced or terminated our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business 10 and results of operations. We review our customers' financial condition for granting credit, monitor changes in customers' financial conditions on an ongoing basis, review individual past-due balances and collection concerns and maintain credit insurance for some customer accounts. However, a key customer's financial failure may negatively affect our results of operations. We depend on the services of third-party capacity providers, the availability of which could affect our profitability and limit growth in our VAS segment. Our VAS segment is highly dependent on the services of third-party capacity providers, such as other truckload carriers, less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, ocean carriers and airlines. Many of those providers face the same economic challenges as us. Continued freight demand softness and the temporary increased truck supply caused by the industry truck pre-buy made it somewhat easier to find qualified truckload capacity to meet customer freight needs for our Brokerage operation in 2007. A large number of carrier failures in 2008 tightened capacity in the first half of 2008, making it more difficult to obtain capacity at a comparable margin to prior quarters. However, in recent months capacity became more readily available due to the weakened domestic economy. If we are unable to secure the services of these third-party capacity providers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our earnings could be reduced by increases in the number of insurance claims, cost per claim, costs of insurance premiums or availability of insurance coverage. We are self-insured for a significant portion of liability resulting from bodily injury, property damage, cargo and employee workers' compensation and health benefit claims. This is supplemented by premium-based insurance with licensed insurance companies above our self-insurance level for each type of coverage. To the extent we experience a significant increase in the number of claims, cost per claim or costs of insurance premiums for coverage in excess of our retention amounts, our operating results would be negatively affected. A portion of our insurance coverage for the current and prior policy years is provided by insurance companies that are subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc. ("AIG"). These AIG insurance subsidiaries are regulated by various state insurance departments. We do not currently believe that financial issues affecting AIG will impact our current or prior insurance coverage or our ability to obtain coverage in the future. Decreased demand for our used revenue equipment could result in lower unit sales, resale values and gains on sales of assets. We are sensitive to changes in used equipment prices and demand, especially with respect to tractors. We have been in the business of selling our company-owned trucks since 1992, when we formed our wholly-owned subsidiary Fleet Truck Sales. We have 16 Fleet Truck Sales locations throughout the United States. Carrier failures and company fleet reductions have increased the supply of used trucks for sale, while buyer demand for used trucks is weak due to the soft freight market and a shortage of available financing. Gains on sales of assets are reflected as a reduction of other operating expenses in our income statement and amounted to gains of $9.9 million in 2008, $22.9 million in 2007 and $28.4 million in 2006. If these market and demand conditions continue or deteriorate further, our gains on sales of assets could be negatively affected. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. In addition to direct regulation by the DOT, EPA and other agencies, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage at several of our facilities. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. 11 We rely on the services of key personnel, the loss of which could impact our future success. We are highly dependent on the services of key personnel including Clarence L. Werner, Gary L. Werner, Gregory L. Werner and other executive officers. Although we believe we have an experienced and highly qualified management group, the loss of the services of these executive officers could have a material adverse impact on us and our future profitability. Difficulty in obtaining goods and services from our vendors and suppliers could adversely affect our business. We are dependent on our vendors and suppliers. We believe we have good vendor relationships and that we are generally able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors and suppliers. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with our vendors and suppliers or if our vendors and suppliers experience significant financial problems, we could experience difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services because of production interruptions or other reasons. Consequently, our business could be adversely affected. One of our large fuel vendors declared bankruptcy in December 2008 and is continuing to operate its fuel stop locations post-bankruptcy. If this vendor were to reduce or eliminate truck stop locations in the future, we believe we have the ability to obtain fuel from other vendors at a comparable price. We use our information systems extensively for day-to-day operations, and service disruptions could have an adverse impact on our operations. The efficient operation of our business is highly dependent on our information systems. Much of our software was developed internally or by adapting purchased software applications to our needs. We purchased redundant computer hardware systems and have our own off-site disaster recovery facility approximately ten miles from our headquarters for use in the event of a disaster. We took these steps to reduce the risk of disruption to our business operation if a disaster occurred. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2008 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 