ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results, business, financial condition and cash flows to materially differ from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements made herein because such statements speak only to the date they were made. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, we undertake no obligation or duty to revise or update any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect subsequent events or circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events. Also refer to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward- Looking Statements in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Our business is subject to overall economic conditions that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact customer shipping volumes and industry freight demand. We believe factors that may have contributed to lower customer shipping volumes and flat-to-lower freight rates in 2008 and 2009 included (i) inventory tightening and reductions by retailers and other customers, (ii) excess truck capacity and (iii) weakness in the retail, construction and manufacturing sectors. In 2009, the overall U.S. economy remained weak for much of the year; however, our freight volumes began to improve in third quarter 2009. Inventory destocking that occurred earlier in 2009 slowed in the latter half of the year, which we believe stabilized inventory levels. When shipping volumes decline, freight pricing generally becomes more competitive as carriers compete for loads to maintain truck productivity. We may be negatively affected by future economic conditions including employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, interest rates and tax rates. Increases in fuel prices and shortages of fuel can have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and profitability. Average diesel fuel prices in 2009 were $1.29 per gallon lower than in 2008. Prices declined in first quarter 2009, climbed rapidly in the latter part of second quarter 2009, and then remained flat to up slightly for the rest of 2009. When fuel prices rise rapidly, a negative earnings lag occurs because the cost of fuel rises immediately and the market indexes used to determine fuel surcharges increase at a slower pace. In a period of declining fuel prices, we generally experience a temporary favorable earnings effect because fuel costs decline at a faster pace than the market indexes used to determine fuel surcharge collections. Although we experienced both trends in 2009 and in 2008, the negative effects in the first half of 2008 and the favorable effects in the second half of 2008 were more dramatic than in 2009. Fuel shortages, increases in fuel prices and petroleum product rationing can have a material adverse impact on our operations and profitability. We cannot predict whether fuel prices will increase or decrease in the future or the extent to 9 which fuel surcharges will be collected from customers. To the extent that we cannot recover the higher cost of fuel through customer fuel surcharges, our financial results would be negatively impacted. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified drivers, student drivers and owner-operators could impact our results of operations and limit growth opportunities. At times, the trucking industry has experienced driver shortages. Driver availability may be affected by changing workforce demographics and alternative employment opportunities in the economy. However, recent weakness in the construction and automotive industries, other trucking company failures and fleet reductions and the higher national unemployment rate continue to positively affect our driver availability and selectivity. Consequently, the driver recruiting and retention market has improved from a year ago. In addition, we believe our high average miles per truck and financial strength are attractive to drivers when compared to other carriers. We anticipate that availability of drivers will remain good until economic conditions improve. When economic conditions improve, competition for drivers will likely increase, and we cannot predict whether we will experience future driver shortages. If such a shortage were to occur and driver pay rate increases were necessary to attract and retain drivers, our results of operations would be negatively impacted to the extent that we could not obtain corresponding freight rate increases. We, along with others in the trucking industry, continue to experience owner-operator recruitment and retention difficulties that have persisted over the past several years. Challenging operating conditions, including inflationary cost increases that are the responsibility of owner-operators and tightened equipment financing standards, have made it difficult to recruit and retain owner-operators. We have historically been able to add company- owned tractors and recruit additional company drivers to offset any decrease in the number of owner-operators. If a shortage of owner-operators occurs, increases in per mile settlement rates (for owner-operators) and driver pay rates (for company drivers) may become necessary to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers. This could negatively affect our results of operations to the extent that we would be unable to obtain corresponding freight rate increases. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which may limit growth opportunities and reduce profitability. The trucking industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of trucking companies. We estimate the ten largest truckload carriers have about 9% of the approximate $160 billion U.S. market we target. This competition could limit our growth opportunities and reduce our profitability. We compete primarily with other truckload carriers in our Truckload segment. Logistics companies, intermodal companies, railroads, less-than- truckload carriers and private carriers also provide a lesser degree of competition in our Truckload segment, but such carriers are more direct competitors in our VAS segment. Competition for the freight we transport or manage is based primarily on service, efficiency, available capacity and, to some degree, on freight rates alone. We operate in a highly regulated industry. Changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could adversely affect our operations and profitability. We are regulated by the DOT in the United States and similar governmental transportation agencies in foreign countries in which we operate. We are also regulated by agencies in certain U.S. states. These regulatory agencies have the authority to govern transportation-related activities, such as safety, financial reporting, authorization to conduct motor carrier operations and other matters. The Regulation section beginning on page 6 of this Form 10-K describes several proposed and pending regulations that may have a significant effect on our operations. The subsidiaries of WGL have business licenses to operate as a U.S. NVOCC, U.S. Customs Broker, Class A Freight Forwarder in China, licensed China NVOCC, TSA-approved Indirect Air Carrier and IATA Accredited Cargo Agent. The loss of any of these business licenses could adversely impact the operations of WGL. The seasonal pattern generally experienced in the trucking industry may affect our periodic results during traditionally slower shipping periods and winter months. In the trucking industry, revenues generally follow a seasonal pattern. Peak freight demand has historically occurred in the months of September, October and November; however, we did not experience this seasonal increase in demand during 2007 and 2008. We experienced some seasonal improvement in freight volumes as third quarter 2009 progressed, and freight volumes continued to strengthen in fourth quarter 2009. After the December holiday season and during the remaining winter months, our freight volumes are typically lower because some customers reduce shipment levels. Our operating expenses have historically 10 been higher in the winter months due primarily to decreased fuel efficiency, increased cold weather-related maintenance costs of revenue equipment and increased insurance and claims costs attributed to adverse winter weather conditions. We attempt to minimize the impact of seasonality through our marketing program by seeking additional freight from certain customers during traditionally slower shipping periods. Revenue can also be affected by bad weather, holidays and the number of business days during a quarterly period because revenue is directly related to the available working days of shippers. We depend on key customers, the loss or financial failure of which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from key customers. During 2009, our largest 5, 10 and 25 customers accounted for 26%, 41% and 61% of revenues, respectively. No single customer generated more than 10% of our revenues in 2009, and our largest customer accounted for 7% of our revenues in 2009. We do not have long-term contractual relationships with many of our key non-dedicated customers. Our contractual relationships with our Dedicated customers are typically one to three years in length and may be terminated upon 90 days' notice following the expiration of the contract's first year. We cannot provide any assurance that key customer relationships will continue at the same levels. If a significant customer reduced or terminated our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We review our customers' financial condition for granting credit, monitor changes in customers' financial conditions on an ongoing basis, review individual past-due balances and collection concerns and maintain credit insurance for some customer accounts. However, a key customer's financial failure may negatively affect our results of operations. We depend on the services of third-party capacity providers, the availability of which could affect our profitability and limit growth in our VAS segment. Our VAS segment is highly dependent on the services of third-party capacity providers, such as other truckload carriers, less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, ocean carriers and airlines. Many of those providers face the same economic challenges as us and therefore are actively and competitively soliciting business. The 2009 VAS gross margin percentage increased compared to 2008 due to overall lower fuel prices and a lower cost of third-party capacity, which we believe can be partially attributed to the weaker economy and excess truck capacity. If we are unable to secure the services of these third-party capacity providers at reasonable rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our earnings could be reduced by increases in the number of insurance claims, cost per claim, costs of insurance premiums or availability of insurance coverage. We are self-insured for a significant portion of liability resulting from bodily injury, property damage, cargo and employee workers' compensation and health benefit claims. This is supplemented by premium-based insurance with licensed insurance companies above our self-insurance level for each type of coverage. To the extent we experience a significant increase in the number of claims, cost per claim or insurance premium costs for coverage in excess of our retention amounts, our operating results would be negatively affected. A portion of our insurance coverage for the current and prior policy years is provided by insurance companies that are subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc. ("AIG"). These AIG insurance subsidiaries are regulated by various state insurance departments. We do not currently believe that financial issues affecting AIG will impact our current or prior insurance coverage or our ability to obtain coverage in the future. Decreased demand for our used revenue equipment could result in lower unit sales, resale values and gains on sales of assets. We are sensitive to changes in used equipment prices and demand, especially with respect to tractors. We have been in the business of selling our company-owned trucks since 1992, when we formed our wholly-owned subsidiary Fleet Truck Sales. During the first six months of 2009, we closed eight Fleet Truck Sales offices with low volume sales and continue to operate in eight locations across the continental United States. We believe carrier failures and company fleet reductions have increased the supply of used equipment for sale, while buyer demand for used trucks and trailers remained weak due to the soft freight market, recessionary economy and a shortage of available financing. Gains on sales of assets are reflected as a reduction of other operating expenses in our income statement and are reported net 11 of sales-related expenses. Gains on sales of assets decreased to $3.2 million in 2009 from $9.9 million in 2008 and $22.9 million in 2007. If these used equipment market and demand conditions continue or deteriorate further, our gains on sales of assets could be further negatively affected. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. In addition to direct regulation by the DOT, EPA and other agencies, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage at several of our facilities. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. We rely on the services of key personnel, the loss of which could impact our future success. We are highly dependent on the services of key personnel including Clarence L. Werner, Gary L. Werner, Gregory L. Werner and other executive officers. Although we believe we have an experienced and highly qualified management group, the loss of the services of these executive officers could have a material adverse impact on us and our future profitability. Difficulty in obtaining goods and services from our vendors and suppliers could adversely affect our business. We are dependent on our vendors and suppliers. We believe we have good vendor relationships and that we are generally able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors and suppliers. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with our vendors and suppliers or if our vendors and suppliers experience significant financial problems, we could experience difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services because of production interruptions or other reasons. Consequently, our business could be adversely affected. One of our large fuel vendors declared bankruptcy in December 2008 and is continuing to operate its fuel stop locations post-bankruptcy, pending its proposed sale to another large fuel vendor from which we also purchase fuel. If this vendor were to reduce or eliminate truck stop locations in the future, we currently believe we have the ability to obtain fuel from other vendors at a comparable price. We use our information systems extensively for day-to-day operations, and service disruptions could have an adverse impact on our operations. The efficient operation of our business is highly dependent on our information systems. Much of our software was developed internally or by adapting purchased software applications to suit our needs. We purchased redundant computer hardware systems and have our own off-site disaster recovery facility approximately ten miles from our headquarters for use in the event of a disaster. We took these steps to reduce the risk of disruption to our business operation if a disaster occurred. We believe any such disruption would be minimal or moderate; however, we cannot predict the degree to which any disaster would affect our information systems or disaster recovery facility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2009 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 12 