ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements made herein, since the statements speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our business is subject to overall economic conditions that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact customer shipping volumes. Beginning in 2003 and continuing throughout 2005, general economic improvements led to improved freight demand. Factors that may have contributed to lower freight demand and flat to lower freight rates in the second half of 2006 and in 2007 were (i) inventory tightening by some large retailers, (ii) some shippers shifting to more intermodal intact container shipments for lower value freight and (iii) moderating economic growth in the retail sector. The significant truck pre-buy, prompted by changes to the EPA engine emission regulations that became effective for newly manufactured engines beginning January 2007, added a total of approximately 170,000 more trucks (or an estimated 6% more trucks in the Class 8 for-hire market) in the years 2005 and 2006 than are normally produced. We may be affected by future economic conditions including employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, interest rates and tax rates. Increases in fuel prices and shortages of fuel can have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and profitability. Fuel prices climbed steadily through 2007, averaging 20 cents per gallon higher than 2006. Fuel shortages, increases in fuel prices, and petroleum product rationing can have a material adverse impact on our operations and profitability. To the extent that we cannot recover the higher cost of fuel through customer fuel surcharges, our financial results would be negatively impacted. For the first eight months of 2007, average fuel prices were nearly the same as during the first eight months of 2006. However, during the last four months of 2007, average fuel prices increased to record levels while prices declined in the last four months of 2006. Fuel prices averaged 65 cents more per gallon in the last four months of 2007 versus the same period in 2006. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining drivers and owner- operators could impact our results of operations and limit growth opportunities. At times, the trucking industry has experienced driver shortages. The market for recruiting and retaining drivers has become more difficult the last several years due to changing workforce demographics and alternative employment opportunities in an improving economy. However, near the end of 2006 and continuing through 2007, the driver recruiting and retention market was less difficult than the extremely challenging market experienced earlier in 2006 due to the weakness in the housing market and the medium-to-long-haul Van fleet reduction. During the last several years, it was more difficult to recruit and retain owner-operator drivers due to challenging operating conditions, including high fuel prices. We anticipate that competition for company drivers and owner-operator drivers will remain high and cannot predict whether we will experience future shortages. If a shortage of company drivers and owner-operators occurs, it may be necessary to increase driver pay rates and owner-operator settlement rates in order to attract these 8 drivers. This could negatively affect our results of operations to the extent that corresponding freight rate increases were not obtained. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which may limit growth opportunities and reduce profitability. The trucking industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of trucking companies. We estimate the ten largest truckload carriers have about 9% of the approximate $180 billion U.S. market we target. This competition could limit our growth opportunities and reduce our profitability. We compete primarily with other truckload carriers in our Truckload segment. Logistics companies, railroads, less-than-truckload carriers and private carriers also provide a lesser degree of competition in our Truckload segment, but are more direct competitors in our VAS segment. Competition for the freight we transport is based primarily on service and efficiency and, to some degree, on freight rates alone. We operate in a highly regulated industry. Changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could adversely affect our operations and profitability. We are regulated by the DOT, the Federal and Provincial Transportation Departments in Canada and the SCT in Mexico and may become subject to new or more comprehensive regulations mandated by these agencies. These regulatory agencies have the authority and power to govern transportation-related activities, such as safety, financial reporting, authorization to conduct motor carrier operations and other matters. In 2006, we formed WGL, an operating division within the VAS segment consisting of several subsidiary companies, including a WOFE headquartered in Shanghai, China. The WGL subsidiaries obtained business licenses to operate as a U.S. NVOCC, U.S. Customs Broker, licensed Freight Forwarder in China, licensed China NVOCC, a TSA approved Indirect Air Carrier and an IATA Accredited Cargo Agent. The loss of any of these business licenses could impact the operations of WGL. On January 18, 2007, the FMCSA published an NPRM in the Federal Register on the trucking industry's use of EOBRs for compliance with HOS rules. Comments on the NPRM were to be received by April 18, 2007. We do not believe the rule, as proposed, would significantly affect our operations and profitability, and we will continue to monitor future developments. As of January 2007, all newly manufactured truck engines must comply with the EPA's stringent engine emission standards. Engines produced under these 2007 standards have higher purchase prices, and we expect them to be less fuel-efficient and result in increased maintenance costs. A final set of more rigorous EPA emissions standards will become effective in January 2010 and apply to all new truck engines manufactured after that time. The seasonal pattern generally experienced in the trucking industry may affect our periodic results during traditionally slower shipping periods and during the winter months. Our business is modestly seasonal with peak freight demand occurring generally in the months of September, October and November. After the December holiday season and during the remaining winter months, our freight volumes are typically lower because some customers have reduced shipment levels. Our operating expenses have historically been higher in winter months primarily due to decreased fuel efficiency, increased cold weather-related maintenance costs of revenue equipment and increased insurance and claims costs due to adverse winter weather conditions. We attempt to minimize the impact of seasonality by seeking additional freight from certain customers during traditionally slower shipping periods. Bad weather, holidays and number of business days during a quarterly period can also affect revenue because revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. We depend on key customers, the loss or financial failure of which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from several key customers. During 2007, our top 5, 10 and 25 customers accounted for 25%, 40% and 62% of revenues, respectively. Our largest customer, Dollar General, accounted for 8% of our revenues in 2007. We do not have long-term contractual relationships with many of our key non-dedicated customers. Our contractual relationships with our dedicated customers are typically one to three years in length and may be terminated upon 90 days' notice following the expiration of the contract's first year. We cannot provide any assurance that key customer relationships will continue at the same levels. If a significant customer reduced or terminated our services, it could 9 have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We review our customers' financial condition prior to granting credit, monitor changes in financial condition on an on-going basis, review individual past-due balances and collection concerns and maintain credit insurance for some customer accounts. However, a customer's financial failure may still negatively affect our results of operations. We depend on the services of third-party capacity providers, the availability of which could affect our profitability and limit growth in our VAS division. Our VAS division is highly dependent on the services of third-party capacity providers, such as other truckload carriers, less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, ocean carriers and airlines. Many of those providers face the same economic challenges as us. Continued freight demand softness and the temporary increase in the supply of trucks caused by the industry truck pre-buy made it somewhat easier to find qualified truckload capacity to meet customer freight needs for our truck brokerage operation. If these market conditions change and we are unable to secure the services of these third-party capacity providers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our earnings could be reduced by increases in the number of insurance claims, the cost per claim, the costs of insurance premiums or the availability of insurance coverage. We self-insure for a significant portion of liability resulting from bodily injury, property damage, cargo loss and workers' compensation. This is supplemented by premium insurance with licensed and highly-rated insurance companies above our self-insurance level for each type of coverage. To the extent we experience a significant increase in the number of claims, cost per claim or costs of insurance premiums for coverage in excess of our retention amounts, our operating results would be negatively affected. Decreased demand for our used revenue equipment could result in lower unit sales, resale values and gains on sales of assets. We are sensitive to changes in used equipment prices, especially tractors. We have been in the business of selling our company-owned trucks since 1992, when we formed our wholly-owned subsidiary Fleet Truck Sales. We have 17 Fleet Truck Sales locations throughout the United States. Due to the weaker freight market and high fuel prices, Fleet Truck Sales demand softened in fourth quarter 2007. This is expected to continue for at least the first half of 2008, which will likely have a continued negative impact on the amount of our gains on sales. During 2007, we continued to sell our oldest van trailers that are fully depreciated and replaced them with new trailers, and we expect to continue doing so in 2008. Gains on sales of assets are reflected as a reduction of other operating expenses in our income statement and amounted to gains of $22.9 million in 2007, $28.4 million in 2006 and $11.0 million in 2005. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. In addition to direct regulation by the DOT and other agencies, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage at several of our facilities. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. We rely on the services of key personnel, the loss of which could impact our future success. We are highly dependent on the services of key personnel including Clarence L. Werner, Gary L. Werner, Gregory L. Werner and other executive officers. Although we believe we have an experienced and highly qualified management group, the loss of the services of these executive officers could have a material adverse impact on us and our future profitability. 10 Difficulty in obtaining goods and services from our vendors and suppliers could adversely affect our business. We are dependent on our vendors and suppliers. We believe we have good vendor relationships and that we are generally able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors and suppliers. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with our vendors and suppliers or if our vendors and suppliers experience significant financial problems, we could experience difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services because of production interruptions or other reasons. Consequently, our business could be adversely affected. We use our information systems extensively for day-to-day operations, and service disruptions could have an adverse impact on our operations. The efficient operation of our business is highly dependent on our information systems. Much of our software was developed internally or by adapting purchased software applications to our needs. We purchased redundant computer hardware systems and have our own off-site disaster recovery facility approximately ten miles from our offices for use in the event of a disaster. We took these steps to reduce the risk of disruption to our business operation if a disaster occurred. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 