ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe are material to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Business Current economic conditions and the global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The global economy recently experienced a significant contraction resulting in an almost unprecedented lack of availability of business and consumer credit. Continued and potentially increased volatility, instability and economic weakness and a resulting decrease in discretionary consumer and business spending may result in a reduction in our revenues, including from sponsorship sales, licensing, Graceland and tour attendance and music sales. We currently cannot predict the extent to which our revenues may be impacted. As a result of the increased cost of borrowing resulting from the recent global credit crisis, our existing credit facility, which does not come due until May 2011, bears interest at rates which are substantially below the market for newly issued senior debt. If we were to pursue any business activity which requires the consent of our lenders under the terms of the credit facility, it is possible that the lenders would seek as compensation for approving such activities an increase in our interest rate to an amount consistent with current market rates. Therefore, a decision by the Company to pursue any such activities could result in a significant increase in our cost of borrowing. The company maintains operating bank accounts at a number of financial institutions in the United States and United Kingdom. A significant amount of the Company’s cash balances in the United States are in excess of the government’s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limits. The FDIC insures deposits in most banks and savings associations located in the United States. The FDIC protects depositors against the loss of their deposits if an FDIC-insured bank or savings association fails. The FDIC is also providing unlimited coverage on non-interest bearing transaction accounts through June 30, 2010 for banks participating in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The balances held in the United Kingdom are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other governmental agency. We could incur substantial losses if the underlying financial institutions fail or are otherwise unable to return our deposits. The continued success of our product offerings, including the popularity of our entertainment properties, are dependent on a variety of factors. We rely heavily upon the continued appeal of the IDOLS and So You Think You Can Dance brands, including the American Idol series in the United States and, to a lesser extent, the foreign adaptations of both brands. Our revenue and income derived from those television programs depend primarily upon the initial and continued acceptance of that programming by the public. Public acceptance of particular programming is dependent upon, among other things, the quality of the programming, the strength of networks on which the programming is broadcast, the promotion and scheduling of the programming and the quality and acceptance of competing television programming and other sources of entertainment and information. Popularity of programming can also be impacted by the strength, appeal and continuity of on-air talent. As has been publicly announced, Simon Cowell will be leaving American Idol at the conclusion of the current season and is expected to launch X-Factor, a competing music-based competition program, in the United States in the fall of 2011. While we believe there has been significant public acceptance for our IDOLS and So You Think You Can Dance brands as stand-alone products, the continued value of the brands could be materially adversely affected if any of its on-air talent were to lose popularity, be unable or unwilling to participate in our business or compete with the brands. Any one or more of these factors could result in one of the television series losing its popularity among viewers. Regardless of the reason, a decline in the number of television viewers who tune in to the shows and their foreign adaptations could result in lower advertising revenue for the networks that broadcast television shows based on the aforementioned brands and hurt our ability to sell future format shows based on the brands. This in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We also rely upon the continued popularity of Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali and the market for products that exploit their names, images and likenesses. Although we believe that Elvis fans will continue to visit Graceland and purchase Elvis-related merchandise, any tarnishing of the public image of Elvis Presley could materially negatively impact our business and results of operations. Moreover, as the life, times and artistic works of Elvis grow more distant in our past, his popularity may decline. If the public were to lose interest in Elvis or form a negative impression of him, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our success depends, to a significant degree, on our relationships with third parties, including our co-producers, television broadcasters, and record companies. Our ability to exploit new entertainment content depends on our ability to have that content produced and distributed on favorable terms. Although we have strong relationships in the entertainment industry, there can be no guarantee that these relationships will endure or that our production and distribution partners will honor their obligations to us. For example, we depend heavily on the companies that co-produce and broadcast the American Idol series in the United States, namely Fox and FremantleMedia. Similarly, we depend on affiliates of Sony Music, to make and distribute recordings by IDOLS winners in the United States, the United Kingdom and other significant markets and to pay us royalties on record sales and advance us monies against those royalties. We advance funds to the winners, after they sign recording contracts, from the monies we receive from Sony Music. We also rely on Sony Music to distribute recordings featuring Elvis Presley. Any failure of Fox, FremantleMedia, Sony Music or other third parties on whom we rely to continue to honor their obligations to us and adhere to our past course of dealing and conduct would have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize continued revenues from the IDOLS platform. Revenue from Fox, FremantleMedia and Sony Music represented 37%, 8% and 9%, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. If we are unable to complete or integrate future acquisitions, our business strategy and stock price may be negatively affected. Our ability to identify and take advantage of attractive acquisition opportunities in the future is an important component in the implementation of our overall business strategy. We may be unable to identify, finance or complete acquisitions in the future. If the trading price of our common stock reflects the market’s expectation that we will complete acquisitions in the future, then the price of our common stock may drop if we are unable to complete such acquisitions. Even if we are able to complete future acquisitions, they could result in our: • incurrence of unanticipated liabilities or contingencies from such acquisitions; • incurrence of potential operating losses from such acquisitions; • engagement in competition with a larger universe of companies; • incurrence of costs relating to possible additional regulatory requirements and compliance costs; • issuance of more capital stock, which may dilute our stockholders’ percentage ownership in our company; • incurrence of additional amounts of debt; and/or • amortization of additional intangible assets. The successful integration of any businesses we may acquire in the future is a key element of our business strategy. The acquisition and integration of additional businesses involve risks, including: • the diversion of management’s time and attention away from operating our business to acquisition and integration challenges; • our entry into markets and geographic areas where we have limited or no experience; • the potential loss of key employees, artists or customers of the acquired businesses; • the potential need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at businesses that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • the integration of culturally diverse employees; and • the need to integrate each business’ accounting, information management, human resources, contract and intellectual property management and other administrative systems to permit effective management. We may be unable to effectively integrate businesses we may acquire in the future without encountering the difficulties described above. Failure to effectively integrate such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the combined companies may not benefit as expected from the integration. We may not be able to manage our expected growth, which could adversely affect our operating results. We intend to continue to significantly grow our company’s business. Our anticipated growth could place a strain on our management, employees and operations. Our ability to compete and to manage our future growth effectively will depend on our ability to implement and improve financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to effect changes in our business, such as implementing internal controls to handle the increased size of our operations and hiring, training, developing and managing an 15 Table of Contents increasing number of experienced management-level and other employees. Unexpected difficulties during expansion, the failure to attract and retain qualified employees or our inability to respond effectively to recent growth or plan for future expansion, could adversely affect our operating results. Certain affiliates, noncontrolling interests and third parties have the right to exploit our intellectual property for commercial purposes and may exercise those rights in a manner that negatively affects our business. Certain third parties with whom we have contractual relationships have the right to commercially exploit certain of our intellectual property, including through shared music publishing rights and film and television production and distribution agreements. We receive a share of the resulting revenue. Our revenue share under such agreements depends on the ability of third parties to successfully market that content. If such third parties exploit our intellectual property in a manner that diminishes its value, or adversely affects the goodwill associated with such intellectual property, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. Our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to protect our business. Our intellectual property, including the rights to the names, images and likenesses of Elvis Presley and Muhammad Ali, and the name, trademark and service mark “American Idol,” is material to our operations. If we do not or cannot protect our material intellectual property rights against infringement or misappropriation by third parties, (whether for legal reasons or for business reasons relating, for example, to the cost of litigation), our revenue may be materially adversely affected. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, rights of publicity, and other laws, as well as licensing agreements and confidentiality and assignment agreements. Because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent, copyright and other laws concerning proprietary rights and various foreign and U.S. state laws concerning publicity rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in one jurisdiction as in another. Although we believe that our intellectual property is enforceable in most jurisdictions, we cannot guarantee such validity or enforceability. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our products, services and content from those of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register some of these trademarks in jurisdictions around the world. In addition, FremantleMedia has registered on our behalf some trademarks, that we co-own with them, including the trademark “American Idol” and its logo. With respect to applications to register trademarks that have not yet been accepted, we cannot assure you that such applications will be approved. Third parties may oppose the trademark applications, seek to cancel existing registrations or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. If they are successful, we could be forced to re-brand our products, services and content, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. We also grant third parties the right to use our trademarks. In an effort to preserve trademark rights, we enter into license agreements with these third parties which govern the use of the trademarks, and which require our licensees to abide by quality control standards with respect to the goods and services that they provide under the trademarks. Although we make efforts to police the use of the trademarks by our licensees, we cannot make assurances that these efforts will be sufficient to ensure that our licensees abide by the terms of their licenses. In the event that our licensees fail to do so, the trademark rights could be diluted, or subject to challenge or invalidation. Although we rely on copyright laws to protect the works of authorship created by us or transferred to us via assignment or by operation of law as work made for hire, we do not typically register our works. Copyrights in works of U.S. origin authored after January 1, 1978 exist as soon as the works are authored and fixed in a tangible medium; however, the works must be registered before the copyright owners may bring an infringement action in the United States. Furthermore, if a copyrighted work of U.S. origin is not registered within three months of publication of the underlying work or before the act of infringement, the copyright owner cannot recover statutory damages or attorneys’ fees in any U.S. enforcement action; rather, the owner must prove he suffered actual damages or lost profits. Accordingly, if one of our unregistered works of U.S. origin is infringed by a third party, we will need to register the work before we can file an infringement suit in the United States, and our remedies in any such infringement suit could be limited. Furthermore, copyright laws vary from country to country. Although copyrights that arise under U.S. and U.K. law will be recognized in most other countries (as most countries are signatories of the Berne Convention and the Universal Copyright Convention), we cannot guarantee that courts in other jurisdictions will afford our copyrights with the same treatment as courts in the United States or the United Kingdom. In addition to copyright and trademark protection, we rely on the rights of publicity to prevent others from commercially exploiting Elvis Presley’s and Muhammad Ali’s names, images and likenesses. At this time, there is no federal statute protecting our rights of publicity to Elvis Presley’s and Muhammad Ali’s names, images and likenesses. As a result, we must rely on state law to protect these rights. Although most states have recognized the rights of publicity to some extent, not all 50 states have expressly done so through their statutes or their respective common law and certain of those states which have recognized such rights, have imposed certain limitations on 16 Table of Contents the enforcement of these rights. Consequently, there is no guarantee that the rights of publicity are enforceable in every state. Additionally, many countries outside of the United States do not recognize the rights of publicity at all or do so in a more limited manner. Consequently, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enforce our rights of publicity in these countries. The departure or a failure to recruit key personnel could have a detrimental effect on us. Our success will depend to a significant extent upon a limited number of members of senior management and other key employees, particularly Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Sillerman, or one or more key managers or other key creative, marketing or management employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional management and marketing personnel. There can be no assurance we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel, and the failure to do so would have a detrimental effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. We expect that we will require additional financing over time. In March 2010, we entered into an amendment to our credit facility which included, among other changes, a reduction in the maximum size of the facility to $100.0 million. As a result of this amendment and the fact that we have previously drawn down $100.0 million, there are no additional borrowings available under the credit facility. In addition, our existing revolving credit facility expires by its terms in May 2011. The terms of any additional or replacement financing we may be able to procure are unknown at this time. As referenced elsewhere herein, the credit markets and the general economy recently experienced a period of large-scale turmoil and upheaval. As a result, debt financing from the capital markets may not be available on acceptable terms and may not be available for some time. Based on the current debt market, we expect that any new debt financing, if available, will be at interest rates in excess of the interest rates currently available under our existing credit facility. In addition to the foregoing, our access to third party sources of capital will depend, in part, on: • the market’s perception of our then-current performance and growth potential; • our then-current debt levels; • our then-current and expected future earnings; • our cash flow; and • the market price per share of our common stock. Any future debt financing or issuances of preferred stock that we may make will be senior to the rights of holders of our common stock, and any future issuances of equity securities will result in the dilution of the then-existing stockholders’ proportionate equity interest. To the extent we maintain international operations and generate revenue in foreign currencies, and currency exchange rates become unfavorable, our results of operations may be adversely affected. As we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Currently, we maintain significant operations in the United Kingdom and receive payments from FremantleMedia with respect to our IDOLS agreement in U.S. dollars and U.K. pounds sterling. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. If the currency exchange rates were to change unfavorably, the value of revenue we generate in foreign currencies could decrease when converted to U.S. dollars and the amount of expenses we incur in foreign currencies could increase when converted to U.S. dollars. This could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. While the Company does not currently utilize hedging strategies, such as forward contracts, options and foreign exchange swaps related to transaction exposures, we may choose to implement them in the future to mitigate this risk. The use of hedging strategies may not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. Additionally, hedging programs expose us to risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including the following: • Hedging programs are inherently risky and we could lose money as a result of poor trades; and • We may be unable to hedge currency risk for some transactions because of a high level of uncertainty or the inability to reasonably estimate our foreign exchange exposures. 17 Table of Contents We depend upon distributions from our operating subsidiaries to fund our operations and may be subordinate to the rights of their existing and future creditors. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries must first satisfy their cash needs, which may include salaries of our executive officers, insurance, professional fees and service of indebtedness that may be outstanding at various times. Financial covenants under future credit agreements, or provisions of the laws of Delaware, where we are organized, or Tennessee or England and Wales, where certain of our subsidiaries are organized, may limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make sufficient dividend, distribution or other payments to us. Creditors of our subsidiaries (including trade creditors) will be entitled to payment from the assets of those subsidiaries before those assets can be distributed to us. By virtue of our holding company status, our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, which is held by The Promenade Trust for the benefit of Lisa Marie Presley, is structurally junior in right of payment to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. The inability of our operating subsidiaries to make distributions to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The concentration of ownership of our capital stock with our executive officers and non-independent directors and their affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of March 12, 2010, our executive officers and non-independent directors together beneficially own approximately 25% of our outstanding capital stock. In particular, Mr. Sillerman, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns approximately 20.6% of our outstanding capital stock. Mr. Sillerman therefore has the ability to influence our management and affairs and the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, approval of any equity-based employee compensation plan and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentrated control may limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Mr. Sillerman has previously disclosed that approximately 80% of his shares of common stock have been pledged, together with certain other collateral, to secure a personal loan extended by a financial institution. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and our failure to comply with regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. Our businesses are regulated by governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Because our operations are international, we must comply with diverse and evolving regulations. These regulations relate to, among other things, management, licensing, foreign investment, use of confidential customer information and content. Our failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations could result in, among other things, regulatory actions or legal proceedings against us, the imposition of fines, penalties or judgments against us or significant limitations on our activities. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. New or revised requirements imposed by governmental authorities could have adverse effects on us, including increased costs of compliance. Changes in the regulation of our operations or changes in interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulators or our inability to comply with current or future regulations could adversely affect us by reducing our revenues, increasing our operating expenses and exposing us to significant liabilities. Our business involves risks of liability associated with entertainment content, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As an owner and developer of entertainment content, we may face potential liability for any of: • defamation; • invasion of privacy; • copyright infringement; • actions for royalties and accountings; • trademark misappropriation; • trade secret misappropriation; • breach of contract; • negligence; and/or • other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. 18 Table of Contents These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against broadcasters, publishers, merchandisers, online services and other developers and distributors of entertainment content. We could also be exposed to liability in connection with material available through our Internet sites. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of cash dividends may have a negative effect on our stock price. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or cash distributions on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our existing credit agreement restrict the payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, subject to the right of the stockholders to elect a successor at the next annual or special meeting of stockholders, which limits the ability of stockholders to fill vacancies on our board of directors. • Our stockholders may not call a special meeting of stockholders, which would limit their ability to call a meeting for the purpose of, among other things, voting on acquisition proposals. • Our by-laws may be amended by our board of directors without stockholder approval, provided that stockholders may repeal or amend any such amended by-law at a special or annual meeting of stockholders. • Our by-laws also provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may not be taken by written action in lieu of a meeting. • Our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which could limit the ability of noncontrolling stockholders to elect director candidates. • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. • Our board of directors may authorize and issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire our company. As a Delaware corporation, by an express provision in our certificate of incorporation, we have elected to “opt out” of the restrictions under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless: • Prior to the date of the transaction, the board of directors of the corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; • Upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time such transaction commenced, excluding, for purposes of determining the number of shares outstanding, (1) shares owned by persons who are directors and also officers of the corporation and (2) shares owned by employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or • On or subsequent to the date of the transaction, the business combination is approved by the board of directors of the corporation and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of the outstanding voting stock which is not owned by the interested stockholder. 19 Table of Contents In this context, a business combination includes a merger, asset or stock sale, or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. An interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns or, within three years prior to the determination of interested stockholder status owned, 15% or more of a corporation’s outstanding voting securities. A Delaware corporation may “opt out” of Section 203 with an express provision in its original certificate of incorporation or an express provision in its certificate of incorporation or by-laws resulting from amendments approved by holders of at least a majority of the corporation’s outstanding voting shares. We elected to “opt out” of Section 203 by an express provision in our original certificate of incorporation. However, subject to certain restrictions, we may elect by an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to be subject to Section 203. Such an amendment would not, however, restrict a business combination between us and an interested stockholder if that stockholder became an interested stockholder prior to the effective date of such amendment. Our certificate of incorporation may only be amended by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock at an annual or special meeting of stockholders and specifically provides that our board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, amend or repeal our by-laws. The by-laws additionally provide that they may be amended by action of the stockholders at an annual or special meeting, except for certain sections relating to indemnification of directors and officers. The conversion rights of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock may be detrimental to holders of our common stock. We have 1,491,817 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. The shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible by its holder(s) into shares of common stock at any time at a conversion price equal to the stated value of $15.30, subject to adjustments in connection with standard anti-dilution protections for stock splits, stock dividends and reorganizations. The shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock become convertible at our option from and after the third anniversary of the date of issuance, if, at any time, the average closing price of our common stock over a thirty-day trading period equals or exceeds 150% of the conversion price. During the period beginning August 7, 2012 and ending August 7, 2013, we can, at our sole discretion, redeem the outstanding shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, for an aggregate price equal to the stated value plus accrued but unpaid dividends through the date of redemption. If we do not exercise this redemption right, the conversion price for all remaining shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock is thereafter reduced to the lower of (i) the conversion price then in effect and (ii) the average closing price of our common stock over a thirty-day trading period measured as of the last day of the redemption period. The conversion of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock for our common stock would dilute stockholder ownership in the Company, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. Any adjustments to the conversion rates of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock could exacerbate their dilutive effect. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 