ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K: The Company's business is subject to overall economic conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the Company. The Company is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact customer shipping volumes. The general slowdown in the economy in 2001 and 2002 had a negative effect on freight volumes for truckload carriers, including the Company. Beginning in 2003 and continuing throughout 2005, general economic improvements lead to improved freight demand. As the unemployment rate increased during 2001 and 2002, driver availability improved for the Company and the industry but became more difficult beginning in fourth quarter 2003 and continuing through 2005. Future economic conditions that may affect the Company include employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, and tax rates. Increases in fuel prices and shortages of fuel can have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and profitability of the Company. Fuel prices climbed steadily throughout most of 2005, spiking in September and October 2005 due to the two hurricanes that struck the Gulf Coast region in September 2005. Prices declined in November 2005 from the record high price levels in October, but the end-of-year prices, excluding fuel taxes, were still about 47% higher in 2005 than in 2004. Shortages of fuel, increases in fuel prices, or rationing of petroleum products can have a materially adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the Company. To the extent that the Company cannot recover the higher cost of fuel through customer fuel surcharges, the Company's financial results would be negatively impacted. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining drivers and owner- operators could impact the Company's results of operations and limit growth opportunities. At times, there have been shortages of drivers in the trucking industry. The market for recruiting and retaining drivers became more difficult in fourth quarter 2003 and continued throughout 2005. During the last several years, it was more difficult to recruit and retain owner-operator drivers due to challenging operating conditions, including high fuel prices. The Company anticipates that the competition for company drivers and owner-operator drivers will continue to be high and cannot predict whether it will experience shortages in the future. If a shortage of company drivers and owner-operators were to occur and increases in driver pay rates and owner-operator settlement rates became necessary to attract drivers and owner-operators, the Company's results of operations would be negatively impacted to the extent that corresponding freight rate increases were not obtained. Additionally, the Company expects the tight driver market will make it very difficult to add truck capacity in the near future. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry, which may limit growth opportunities and reduce profitability. The trucking industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of trucking companies. The Company estimates the ten largest truckload carriers have about 12% of the approximate $150 billion market targeted by the Company. This competition could limit the Company's growth opportunities and reduce its profitability. The Company competes primarily with other truckload carriers. Logistics companies, railroads, less-than- truckload carriers, and private carriers also provide 6 competition, but to a much lesser degree. Competition for the freight transported by the Company is based primarily on service and efficiency and, to some degree, on freight rates alone. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry. Changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have an adverse effect on the operations and profitability of the Company. The Company is regulated by the DOT, the Federal and Provincial Transportation Departments in Canada, and the SCT in Mexico. These regulatory authorities establish broad powers, generally governing activities such as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, financial reporting, and other matters. The Company may become subject to new or more comprehensive regulations relating to fuel emissions, driver hours of service, or other issues mandated by the DOT, EPA, the Federal and Provincial Transportation Departments in Canada, or the SCT in Mexico. New hours of service regulations became effective October 1, 2005, with only one significant change from the previous regulations. The Company cannot predict what rule changes, if any, might result in the future. Any changes could have an adverse effect on the operations and profitability of the Company. Effective October 1, 2002, all newly manufactured truck engines must comply with the engine emission standards mandated by the EPA. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 89% of the company-owned truck fleet consisted of trucks with the new post- October 2002 engines. The Company has experienced an approximate 5% reduction in fuel efficiency to date and increased depreciation expense due to the higher cost of the new engines. A new set of more stringent emissions standards mandated by the EPA will become effective for newly manufactured trucks beginning in January 2007. The Company has already reduced the average age of its truck fleet to 1.23 years in advance of these new standards. The Company expects that the engines produced under the 2007 standards will be less fuel-efficient and have a higher cost than the current engines. The Company is unable to predict the impact these new regulations will have on its operations, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The seasonal pattern generally experienced in the trucking industry may affect the Company's periodic results during traditionally slower shipping periods and during the winter months. The Company's business is modestly seasonal with peak freight demand occurring generally in the months of September, October, and November. After the Christmas holiday season, during the remaining winter months, the Company's freight volumes are typically lower as some customers have lower shipment levels. The Company's operating expenses have historically been higher in winter months primarily due to decreased fuel efficiency, increased maintenance costs of revenue equipment in colder weather, and increased insurance and claims costs due to adverse winter weather conditions. The Company attempts to minimize the impact of seasonality through its marketing program by seeking additional freight from certain customers during traditionally slower shipping periods. Bad weather, holidays, and the number of business days during the period can also affect revenue, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. The Company depends on the services of third-party capacity providers, the availability of which could affect the Company's profitability and limit growth in its VAS division. The Company's VAS division is highly dependent on the services of third-party capacity providers, including other truckload carriers and railroads. Many of those providers face the same economic challenges as the Company. As the truck capacity market tightened during 2005, it became more difficult to find qualified truckload capacity to meet customer freight needs. The Company expects a tight truckload capacity market in 2006 with the extremely challenging driver market and historically high fuel prices. If the Company were unable to secure the services of these third-party capacity providers, its results of operations could be adversely affected. Increases in the number of insurance claims, the cost per claim, or the costs of insurance premiums could reduce the Company's earnings. The Company self-insures for a significant portion of liability resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, and property damage as well as workers' compensation. This is supplemented by premium insurance with licensed insurance companies above the Company's self-insurance level for each type of coverage. To the extent the Company were to experience a significant increase in the number of claims, the cost per claim, or the costs of insurance premiums for coverage in excess of its 7 retention amounts, the Company's operating results would be negatively affected. Decreased demand for the Company's used revenue equipment could result in lower unit sales, lower resale values, and lower gains on sales of assets. The Company is sensitive to changes in used equipment prices, especially tractors. Because of truckload carrier concerns with new truck engines and lower industry production of new trucks over the last several years, the resale value of Werner's premium used trucks improved from the historically low values of 2001. The Company has been in the business of selling its Company-owned trucks since 1992, when it formed its wholly- owned subsidiary Fleet Truck Sales. The Company currently has 17 Fleet Truck Sales locations throughout the United States. Gains on sales of assets are reflected as a reduction of other operating expenses in the Company's income statement and amounted to gains of $11.0 million in 2005, $9.3 million in 2004, and $6.9 million in 2003. The Company relies on the services of key personnel, the loss of which could impact the future success of the Company. The Company is highly dependent on the services of key personnel including Clarence L. Werner and other executive officers. Although the Company believes it has an experienced and highly qualified management group, the loss of the services of these executive officers could have a material adverse impact on the Company and its future profitability. Difficulty in obtaining goods and services from the Company's vendors and suppliers could adversely affect the Company's business. The Company is dependent on its vendors and suppliers. The Company believes it has good relationships with its vendors and that it is generally able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors and suppliers. If the Company fails to maintain good relationships with its vendors and suppliers or if its vendors and suppliers experience significant financial problems, the Company could face difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services because of interruptions of production or for other reasons, which could adversely affect the Company's business. The Company uses its information systems extensively for day-to- day operations, and service disruptions could have an adverse impact on the Company's operations. The efficient operation of the Company's business is highly dependent on its information systems. Much of the Company's software has been developed internally or by adapting purchased software applications to the Company's needs. The Company has purchased redundant computer hardware systems and has its own off-site disaster recovery facility approximately ten miles from the Company's offices to use in the event of a disaster. The Company has taken these steps to reduce the risk of disruption to its business operation if a disaster were to occur. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements made herein, since the statements speak only as of the date they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward- looking statements contained herein to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 