ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business Based on our historical financials, there is uncertainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We incurred a net loss of $4,136,892 for the year ended December 31, 2009, and a net loss of $1,966,240 for the year ended December 31, 2008. We have not had a profitable year since 2006. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $30,107,651. We anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial operating losses and may require additional financing in the foreseeable future. These matters raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Existing and anticipated working 18 Table of Contents capital needs, lower than anticipated revenues, increased expenses or the inability to collect on an outstanding Loan to the Borrower could all affect our ability to continue as a going concern. As described in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm and in Note (1), Organization and Significant Accounting Policies, in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in this annual report, these circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), contemplate that we will continue as a going concern and do not contain any adjustments that might result if we were unable to continue as a going concern. This report may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital necessary to operate our business. If the $2.0 million loan receivable remains unpaid, we could deplete our cash reserves by the end of the third quarter of this year. On July 31, 2009, we issued a Loan to the Borrower. The Loan, which was due on January 31, 2010, is secured by (i) a first lien on property owned by LEN, (ii) a second lien on property owned by LLRII and (iii) a guarantee from LEH. We agreed to forbear the loan receivable until June 11, 2010, provided the Borrower satisfies certain conditions set forth in the forbearance agreement. Those certain conditions were not met, and on April 9, 2010, we called on the full value of the Loan to be paid by April 13, 2010. As of the date of this report, the Loan is in default and remains unpaid. However, management believes the Loan will be paid at a date in the future. Management is currently pursuing a plan that would include selling the note to a third party. In addition, management plans to begin the necessary steps associated with collection on the collateral. Although this may take time, management feels the Company will recover the full amount of the Loan through this process. Our cash flow projections suggest that, should the Loan remain unpaid, we could deplete our cash reserves by the end of the third quarter of this year. We are primarily dependent on revenues from our pipeline systems and our working interests in three oil and gas producing properties. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 94% of our revenues were derived from our pipeline operations and the limited amount of reserves on properties we currently own interests in. We expect that our future revenues will continue to be primarily dependent on the level of use of our pipeline systems. Various factors can influence the level of use of our pipeline systems, including the success of drilling programs in the areas near our pipelines and our ability to attract new producer/shippers. There are various pipelines in and around our pipeline systems that we vigorously compete with to attract new producer/shippers to our pipeline systems. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting new producer/shippers to our pipeline systems. The rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Our working interests are in properties in the Gulf of Mexico where, generally, the rate of production declines more rapidly than in many other producing areas of the world. As the level of production from these properties continues to decline, our revenue from oil and gas sales will decrease. Revenues from oil and gas sales accounted for approximately 6% of our total revenues in 2009 and 18% in 2008. Unless we are able to replace production revenue with revenue from interests in other oil and gas properties, increase the level of utilization of our pipelines or acquire other revenue generating assets at an acceptable cost, our revenues and cash flow from operations will decrease and our financial condition will be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents A significant decrease in exploration and production activity in areas where our pipelines are, the decline in production from existing wells, depressed commodity prices or otherwise, would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. The profitability of our pipeline operations is materially impacted by the volume of throughput. A material decrease in production in our areas of operation would result in a further decline in our throughput volumes. We have no control over many factors affecting production activity, including prevailing and projected commodity prices, demand for oil and gas, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. The level of throughput on our pipelines is significantly below maximum capacity. Failure to connect new wells to our pipelines would result in the amount of throughput being reduced further over time. Our ability to connect to new wells will be dependent on the level of drilling activity in our areas of operations, the success of that drilling activity and competitive market factors. The effect of any decrease in the throughput handled by our pipelines would reduce our revenues and operating income. If we are not able to generate sufficient funds from our operations and other financing sources, we may not be able to finance our operations. In the past three years, we have used a portion of our cash reserves to fund our working capital requirements that were not funded from operations. Continued underutilization of our pipelines, low commodity prices, production problems, declines in production, disappointing drilling results and other factors beyond our control could further reduce our funds from operations. Additionally, we project that our current cash reserves will be sufficient to meet our obligations through the third quarter of this year. As a result we may have to seek debt and equity financing to meet our working capital requirements. Our history of losses may affect our ability to raise additional capital, or increase the cost of obtaining financing. In addition, additional capital at acceptable terms may not be available to us in the future. In the event we are not able to raise additional capital, we may be forced to sell some, or all, of our assets at unfavorable terms or on an untimely basis. The global financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our financial condition. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to reduced demand for oil and natural gas, or lower prices for oil and natural gas, or both, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. If our common stock fails to meet the listing requirements of NASDAQ and is delisted from trading on the NASDAQ, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “BDCO.” The NASDAQ’s listing requirements include a requirement that, for continued listing, an issuer’s common shares trade at a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. This requirement is deemed breached when the bid price of an issuer’s common shares closes below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days. On September 16, 2009, we were notified by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department (“Listing Qualifications”) that our shares failed to meet the requirement for the specified time period and they could initiate steps to delist our common stock from trading on the NASDAQ anytime after March 15, 2010, unless our closing bid price exceeds $1.00 per share for at least 10 consecutive trading days prior to that date. As a result of not regaining compliance within the specified compliance period, on March 16, 2010 Listing Qualifications notified us that, unless we requested a hearing before the Panel to appeal Listing Qualifications’ delisting determination, our common stock would be suspended from trading and cease 20 Table of Contents being listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market on March 25, 2010. We timely requested a hearing before the Panel, which stayed the delisting determination, pending a final written decision by the Panel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining our listing on NASDAQ or the trading market for our common stock. A delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ could adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our stock and therefore the market price of our common stock. If NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock and our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of ours common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. If an active trading market for our common stock is not sustained, it will be difficult for our shareholders to sell shares of our common stock without further depressing the market price of our common stock or at all. A delisting of our common stock also could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations. The geographic concentration of our assets may have a greater effect on us as compared to other companies. All of our assets are located in the Western Gulf of Mexico and the onshore Gulf Coast of Texas. Because our assets are not as diversified geographically as many of our competitors, our business is subject to local conditions more than other, more geographically diversified companies. Any regional event, including price fluctuations, natural disasters and restrictive regulations that increase costs may adversely impact our business more than if our assets were geographically diversified. Oil and gas prices are volatile and a substantial and extended decline in the price of oil and gas would have a material adverse effect on us. The tightening of natural gas supply and demand fundamentals has resulted in extremely volatile natural gas prices, and this volatility in natural gas prices is expected to continue. Our revenues, profitability, operating cash flow and our potential for growth are largely dependent on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. These factors include: • weather conditions in the United States; • the condition of the United States economy; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • governmental regulation; • political stability in the Middle East, South America and elsewhere; • the foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the price of foreign imports; • the availability of alternate fuel sources; and • the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies. In addition, low or declining oil and natural gas prices could have collateral effects that could adversely affect us, including the following: • reducing the exploration for and development of oil and gas reserves held by third party companies around our pipeline systems; • increasing our dependence on external sources of capital to meet our cash needs; and • generally impairing our ability to obtain needed capital. 21 Table of Contents We face strong competition from larger companies that may negatively affect our ability to carry on operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, substantial independent energy companies, affiliates of major interstate and intrastate pipelines and national and local gas gatherers, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than we do. Our ability to successfully compete in the marketplace is affected by many factors including: • most of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, which gives them better access to capital to acquire assets; and • we sometimes establish a higher standard for the minimum projected rate of return on invested capital than some of our competitors since we cannot afford to absorb certain risks. We believe this puts us at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring pipelines and oil and gas properties. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated. Estimating reserves of oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are mandated by the SEC regarding oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: • the quality and quantity of available data; • the interpretation of that data; • the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and • the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate. The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based on estimates we prepared. Estimates prepared by others might differ materially from our estimates. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future production, oil and gas prices, taxes, development expenditures, abandonment costs and operating expenses most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development and prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also may be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties. The present value of future net cash flows will most likely not equate to the current market value of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on the historical 12-month average price (based on the first of the month pricing for the most recently ended fiscal year) and costs in effect at December 31, 2009. Actual future prices and costs may be materially different from the prices and costs we used. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate. Currently, other companies operate or control the development of the oil and gas properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we depend on the operator of the wells or leases to properly conduct lease acquisition, drilling, completion and production operations. The failure of an operator, or the drilling contractors and other service providers selected by the operator to properly perform services, or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interest, could adversely affect us, including the amount and timing of revenues, if any, we receive from our interests. 22 Table of Contents We own and generally anticipate that we will continue to own substantially less than a 50% working interest in our oil and gas prospects and properties and will therefore engage in joint operations with other working interest owners. Since we own or control less than a majority of the working interest, decisions affecting our interest could be made by the owners of a majority of the working interest. For instance, if we are unwilling or unable to participate in the costs of operations approved by owners of a majority of the working interests in a well, our working interest in the well (and possibly other wells on the property) will likely be subject to contractual “non-consent penalties.” These penalties may include, for example, full or partial forfeiture of our interest in the well or a relinquishment of our interest in production from the well in favor of the participating working interest owners until the participating working interest owners have recovered a multiple of the costs which would have been borne by us if we had elected to participate, which often ranges from 400% to 600% of such costs. We have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, acquisitions. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. One of our business strategies has been to acquire operations and assets that are complementary to our existing businesses. Acquiring operations and assets involves financial, operational and legal risks. These risks include: • inadvertently becoming subject to liabilities of the acquired company that were unknown to us at the time of the acquisition, such as later asserted litigation matters or tax liabilities; • the difficulty of assimilating operations, systems and personnel of the acquired businesses; and • maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Competition from other potential buyers could cause us to pay a higher price than we otherwise might have to pay and reduce our acquisition opportunities. We are often out-bid by larger, better capitalized companies for acquisition opportunities we pursue. Operating hazards, including those specific to the marine environment, may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our operations are subject to inherent risks normally associated with those operations, such as: • pipeline ruptures; • sudden violent expulsions of oil, gas and mud while drilling a well, commonly referred to as a blowout; • a cave in and collapse of the earth’s structure surrounding a well, commonly referred to as cratering; • explosions; • fires; • pollution; and • other environmental risks. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer substantial losses from injury and loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Our offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions and more extensive governmental regulation. These regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage or result in the interruption or termination of operations. 23 Table of Contents Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured drilling and operating activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain several types of insurance to cover our operations, including maritime employer’s liability and comprehensive general liability. Amounts over base coverages are provided by primary and excess umbrella liability policies. We also maintain operator’s extra expense coverage, which covers the control of drilled or producing wells as well as re-drilling expenses and pollution coverage for wells out of control. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or losses may exceed the maximum coverage amounts under our insurance policies. We do not maintain property insurance coverage on our pipelines. If a significant event that is not fully insured or indemnified against occurs, it could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of employees could result in the failure to implement our business plan. We currently have six (6) full-time employees and regularly use the services of two (2) consultants, both of whom are former employees. Success within our existing two business segments — pipeline operations and activities and oil and gas exploration and production activities — will depend largely upon the efforts of certain of our executive officers, one of which has been employed by us since the early stages of our business, and continued access to the two (2) consultants we use regularly, both of whom are also former employees with a long history with the Company. The loss of services of any one of these individuals could seriously harm our business opportunities and prospects. Given our small size, our success also depends on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel in key areas. We may not be able to attract and retain required personnel on acceptable terms due to the competition for experienced personnel from other companies in the industry. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively impact our operations. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require the acquisition of a permit before operations can be commenced; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment from drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling and pipeline activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells and abandoning pipelines; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. The enactment of stricter legislation or the adoption of stricter regulations could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as on the oil and gas industry in general. Our operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. We could also be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for our operations, including limited coverage for sudden 24 Table of Contents and accidental environmental damages, but we do not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that occur over time or complete coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may lose the privilege to continue to operate our properties if certain environmental damages occur. The OPA imposes a variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the OPA, could have a material adverse impact on us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 