ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results and/or cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to our Business The success of our acquisition of LE will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating LE’s business into our operations. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits from this integration on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: • difficulties expanding in new markets or geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience; • failure to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities we assumed in the acquisition, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; • difficulties or delays in incorporating acquired technologies or integrating overall operations and business systems while maintaining uniform standards, controls, processes and policies; • failure to successfully manage relationships with our combined supplier and customer base; and • difficulties in modifying LE’s existing accounting and internal control systems to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to which LE is not currently subject, which could adversely impact the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for the combined company. Refining margins are volatile, and a reduction in anticipated refining margins will adversely affect the amount of cash we will have available for working capital. Historically, refining margins have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Our financial results are primarily affected by the relationship, or margin, between our specialty products prices and the prices for crude oil. The cost to acquire crude oil and the price at which we can ultimately sell our refined products depend upon numerous factors beyond our control. The prices at which we sell specialty products are strongly influenced by the commodity price of crude oil. If crude oil prices increase, our specialty products segment margins will fall unless we are able to pass along these price increases to our wholesale customers. Increases in selling prices for specialty products typically lag the rising cost of crude oil and may be difficult to implement when crude oil costs increase dramatically over a short period of time. The sale of refined products to the wholesale market is an important part of our business going forward, and if we fail to grow and maintain our market share or gain market acceptance of our refined products, our operating results could suffer. Selling refined products to the wholesale market is an important part of our business, and as our refined products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the wholesale market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. Our success in the wholesale market depends in large part on our ability to grow and maintain our image and reputation as an independent operator and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our refined products. Adverse perceptions of product quality, whether or not justified, or allegations of product quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our wholesale customers to choose refined products offered by our competitors. We are dependent on third-party operators for the transportation of crude oil into and refined products out of our Nixon Facility, and if these third-party operators become unavailable to us, our ability to process crude oil and sell refined products to wholesale markets could be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We rely on trucks for the receipt of crude oil into and the sale of refined products out of our Nixon Facility. Since we do not own or operate any of these trucks, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of the third-party trucking companies that we use, or the trucking industry in general, become unavailable to transport crude oil or our refined products because of acts of God, accidents, government regulation, terrorism or other events, our revenue and net income would be materially and adversely affected. Potential downtime for maintenance at the Nixon Facility could reduce our revenue and cash available for payments of our obligations. Although currently operating at anticipated levels, the Nixon Facility is still in a recommissioning phase and may require additional unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs. Any scheduled or unscheduled maintenance reduces our revenues and increases our operating expenses during the period of time that our processing unit is not operating and could reduce our ability to meet our payment obligations. Our operations, including our operation of the Nixon Facility, subject us to the inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the operation of the Nixon Facility due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to our operations, and as a result of historical operations and waste disposal practices of prior owners of our facilities. We currently own or operate properties that for many years have been used for industrial activities, including refining or terminal storage operation. Private parties, including the owners of properties adjacent to our operations and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance or other sources of indemnity. To the extent that the costs associated with meeting any or all of these requirements are substantial and not adequately provided for, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our relationship with LEH and our related party transactions with LEH and its affiliates may cause conflicts of interest that may adversely affect us. LEH owns approximately eighty percent (80%) of our issued and outstanding Common Stock. Jonathan P. Carroll, our Chief Executive Officer, President, Assistant Treasurer and Secretary, and Tommy L. Byrd, our interim Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary, are also a member and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, of LEH and as a result may, under certain circumstances, have interests that differ from or conflict with our interests. Further, pursuant to the Management Agreement, LEH manages and operates the Nixon Facility and Blue Dolphin’s other operations. As a result of their relationship with LEH, Messrs. Carroll and Byrd may experience conflicts of interest in the execution of their duties on behalf of Blue Dolphin including with respect to the Management Agreement. LEH has no fiduciary duty to make decisions in our best interest. LEH is entitled to vote the Common Stock it owns in accordance with its interests, which may be contrary to our interests and those of other stockholders. LEH has interests that differ from the interests of our stockholders and, as a result, there is a risk that important business decisions will not be made in the best interest of our stockholders. LEH and its other affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us and are not obligated to offer us business opportunities. We believe that the transactions and agreements that we have entered into with LEH and its affiliates are on terms that are at least as favorable as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from third parties. However, these relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our Board is faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and LEH or its affiliates. The appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements adversely affect the public’s perception of us, as well as our relationship with other companies and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. LEH holds a significant interest in us. LEH owns approximately eighty percent (80%) of our issued and outstanding Common Stock. Through its ownership of such a large amount of Common Stock, LEH has significant influence over matters such as the election of our Board, control over our business, policies and affairs and other matters submitted to our stockholders. Declines in throughput volumes and production rates from our leasehold properties in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are expected to continue. In recent years, throughput volumes on our pipelines and production rates from our leasehold properties in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have continued to decline as a result of decreased activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and depleting reserves. Following the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill, regulators have continued to move slowly in issuing new drilling permits in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. This has negatively impacted our ability to attract new producers/shippers to our pipelines and make additional investments in new oil and gas properties. Although our U.S. Gulf of Mexico oil and gas properties may continue to operate over the next twelve to eighteen months, we expect the operating costs to exceed gross revenues based on current reserves and net cash flow estimates making these properties uneconomic. During the past year, we have been primarily dependent on revenue from one key customer. As a result of decreased revenue from pipeline operations and oil and gas sales related to our U.S. Gulf of Mexico leasehold interests, revenue from the North Sumatra Basin-Langsa Field accounted for approximately 54% of our total revenue in 2011 compared to approximately 26% in 2010. Unless we are able to offset this revenue with revenue from the sale of refined products, transportation throughput, interests in other oil and gas properties or other revenue generating assets at an acceptable cost, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected if production from the North Sumatra Basin-Langsa Field declines sharply or ceases. If we are not able to generate sufficient funds from operations or obtain financing from other sources, we may not be able to continue our operations. In recent years we have used a portion of our cash reserves to fund working capital requirements that were not funded from our operations. Continued pipeline underutilization, low commodity prices, production problems, reserve declines, unfavorable drilling results and other factors beyond our control could further reduce funds from our operations. Currently, we project that our current cash reserves will be sufficient to meet our obligations. If we are unable to realize the benefits of our acquisition of LE or obtain additional funds, we may have to seek debt and/or equity financing to meet our working capital requirements. Our history of losses may affect our ability to raise additional capital and increase the cost and terms of obtaining such financing. In the event we are not able to raise additional capital, we may be forced to sell our assets or discontinue our operations. A substantial and extended decline in the prices of oil or gas would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our revenue, profitability, operating cash flow and potential for growth are largely dependent on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. These factors include: 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • weather conditions; • the domestic and international economy; • Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ actions; • governmental regulation; • political stability in the Middle East, South America and elsewhere; • foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • price of foreign imports; • availability of alternate fuel sources; and • the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies. In addition, low or declining oil and natural gas prices could have collateral effects that could adversely affect us, including the following: • reducing the exploration for and development of oil and gas by third-party companies operating in the vicinity of our pipeline systems; • increasing our dependence on external sources of capital to meet our cash needs; and • impairing our ability to obtain needed capital. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated. Estimating reserves of oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are mandated by the SEC, including oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: • the quality and quantity of available data; • the interpretation of that data; • the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and • the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate. The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based on estimates prepared by third-party petroleum engineering consulting firms based on information that we provided. Although our U.S. Gulf of Mexico oil and gas properties may continue to operate over the next twelve to eighteen months, we expect the operating costs to exceed gross revenues based on current reserves and net cash flow estimates making these properties uneconomic. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future production, oil and gas prices, taxes, development expenditures, abandonment costs and operating expenses prepared by others will likely vary from these estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and net present value of our reserves. Furthermore, the present value of future net cash flows will most likely not equate to the current market value of their estimated proved oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves were based on the historical 12-month average price (based on the first of the month pricing for the most recently ended fiscal year) and costs in effect at December 31, 2011. Actual future prices and costs may be materially different from the prices and costs they used. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate. Currently, third parties operate or control the development and operation of the oil and gas properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we depend on these third-parties to properly conduct lease acquisition, drilling, completion and production operations. The failure of any such third party operator or drilling contractors, as well as other service providers working on their behalf, to properly perform services or to act in ways that are in our best interest, could adversely affect our interests. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We own and generally anticipate that we will continue to own substantially less than a 50% working interest in our oil and gas prospects and properties and will therefore engage in joint operations with other working interest owners. Since we own or control less than a majority of the working interest, decisions affecting our interest could be made by the owners of a majority of the working interest. For instance, if we are unwilling or unable to participate in the costs of operations approved by owners of a majority of the working interests in a well, our working interest in the well (and possibly other wells on the property) will likely be subject to contractual “non-consent penalties.” These penalties may include, full or partial forfeiture of our interest in the well or a relinquishment of our interest in production from the well in favor of the participating working interest owners until the participating working interest owners have recovered a multiple of the costs which would have been borne by us if we had elected to participate, which often ranges from 400% to 600% of such costs. The geographic concentration of our assets may have a greater effect on us compared to other companies. The majority of our onshore assets are located in the eagle Ford Shale and Gulf Coast areas of Texas, while the majority of our offshore assets are located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. As a result, we are at a greater risk of being impacted by local and regional conditions compared to oil and gas companies that have their assets more geographically diversified. Any negative regional event, including commodity price fluctuations, natural disasters and restrictive governmental regulations could adversely impact our business. Strong competition from larger companies may negatively impact our ability to continue our operations. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies, large independent energy companies, affiliates of major interstate and intrastate pipelines and national and local refinery operators and gatherers, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than we do. Our ability to successfully compete in the marketplace is affected by many factors, including our ability to access capital and absorb risks. We believe these factors largely put us at a competitive disadvantage in consummating transactions and acquiring new assets. We intend to continue pursuing acquisitions. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. One of our business strategies is to acquire operations that are complementary to our existing business operations. The evaluation of opportunities involves time and expense, and acquiring operations and assets involves financial, operational and legal risks, including, but not limited to: • inadvertently becoming subject to liabilities of the acquired company that were unknown to us at the time of the acquisition, such as later asserted litigation matters or tax liabilities; • the difficulty of assimilating operations, systems and personnel of the acquired businesses; and • maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Competition from other potential buyers could cause us to pay a higher price than we otherwise might have paid and reduce our acquisition opportunities. We are often out-bid by larger, better capitalized companies for the acquisition opportunities that we pursue. Operating hazards may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our operations are subject to inherent risks normally associated with oil and gas operations, including, but not limited to: • fires and explosions; 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • pollution; • pipeline ruptures; • sudden violent expulsions of oil, gas and mud while drilling a well, commonly referred to as a blowout; • a cave in and collapse of the earth’s structure surrounding a well, commonly referred to as cratering; and • other environmental risks. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer substantial losses from injury and loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Our offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks exclusive to the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions and restrictive governmental regulation. These regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage or result in the interruption or termination of operations. Our pipelines and other assets face operating hazards, and the potential limits on insurance coverage could expose us to potentially significant liability costs. Our pipelines, exploration and production and other assets are subject to certain operating hazards, and our cash flow from those operations, if any, could decline as a result of a major accident, explosion or fire, severe weather or other natural disaster, or otherwise is forced to curtail its operations or shut down. These operating hazards could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in significant curtailment or suspension of our related operations. Although we maintain insurance policies, including personal and property damage and business interruption insurance for each of our facilities with insurers in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we, with the advice of our insurance advisors and brokers, believe are reasonable and prudent, we cannot ensure that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal and property damage or significant interruption of operations. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In addition, we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business because certain risks are not fully insurable, coverage is unavailable or premium costs, in our judgment, do not justify such expenditures. For example, we are not insured for environmental accidents at all of our facilities. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of key employees could result in the failure to implement our business plan. The success of our business operations depends largely upon the efforts of key executive officers and technical personnel. Given our small size, we may not be able to retain required personnel on acceptable terms due to the competition for experienced personnel from other companies in the industry. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively impact our operations. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require the acquisition of a permit before operations can be commenced; 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment from drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling and pipeline activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells and abandoning pipelines; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. The enactment of stricter legislation or the adoption of stricter regulations could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as on the oil and gas industry in general. Our operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. We could also be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for our operations, including limited coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages. However, we do not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that occur over time or complete coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may lose the privilege to continue to operate our properties if certain environmental damages occur. The EPA imposes a variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the EPA, could have a material adverse impact on us. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could increase our operational costs and reduce demand for our products. Continued political attention to issues concerning climate change, the role of human activity in it, and potential mitigation through regulation could have a material impact on our operations and financial results. International agreements and national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse emissions are currently in various stages of discussion or implementation. These and other greenhouse gas emissions-related laws, policies and regulations may result in substantial capital, compliance, operating and maintenance costs. The level of expenditure required to comply with these laws and regulations is uncertain and is expected to vary depending on the laws enacted in each jurisdiction, our activities in the particular jurisdiction and market conditions. Greenhouse gas emissions that could be regulated include those arising from the conversion of crude oil into refined products, the transportation of crude oil and natural gas, and the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Some matters related to these activities, such as actions taken by our competitors in response to such laws and regulations, are beyond our control. The effect of regulation on our financial performance will depend on a number of factors including, among others, the sectors covered, the greenhouse gas emissions reductions required by law, the extent to which we would be entitled to receive emission allowance allocations or would need to purchase compliance instruments on the open market or through auctions, the price and availability of emission allowances and credits and the impact of legislation or other regulation on our ability to recover the costs incurred through the pricing of our products. Material price increases or incentives to conserve or use alternative energy sources could also reduce demand for products we currently sell and adversely affect our sales volumes, revenues and margins. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 