ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results and/or cash flows. Risks Related to our Business Based on our historical financials, there is uncertainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As described in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm and in Note (1), Organization and Significant Accounting Policies, to the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in this report, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We incurred a net loss of $1,022,895 for the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $31,130,546. We anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial operating losses unless we are able to achieve and sustain profitability. Our limited revenue and cash flow deficiencies raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Existing and anticipated working capital needs, lower than anticipated revenue, increased expenses and/or the inability to recover damages awarded under a partial summary judgment related to a defaulted loan could all affect our ability to continue as a going concern. The continuation of our business is dependent upon obtaining additional financing. We will seek to raise additional working capital through private placements, sale of existing assets, public offerings, bank financing and/or advances from related parties or shareholder loans, as well as to continue evaluating potential merger and/or acquisition opportunities. There are no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital through private placement, public offerings and/or bank financing, and this report may make it more difficult to raise such capital. Furthermore, the issuance of additional equity securities could result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of current or future stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase liabilities and future cash commitments. We do not currently have any arrangements in place to raise additional capital. If the $1.7 million award under a partial summary judgment in favor of Blue Dolphin and against LEH and LLRII is not recovered, we could deplete our cash reserves by the end of the third quarter of 2011. In the second quarter of 2010, we began foreclosure proceedings on the Collateral and Guaranty securing the Loan. The Collateral went up for auction under a Writ of Seizure and Sale issued by the 31st Judicial District Court, Parish of Jefferson Davis, State of Louisiana on July 28, 2010. There were no bidders on the property owned by LLRII. As a credit bid against the Loan, we bid the minimum amount of $134,000 for the property owned by LEN, which consisted primarily of an inactive salt water disposal well. As there were no third-party bidders on the property owned by LEN, we acquired the property at its fair market value of $201,000. 20 Table of Contents On May 26, 2010, we filed a petition in the Court alleging breach of contract and asserting our right to the unpaid principal balance and all accrued interest due and payable under the Loan. By order dated February 7, 2011, the Court granted a partial summary judgment on liability under the promissory note and Guaranty in favor of Blue Dolphin and against LEH and LLRII. On March 28, 2010, our motion for entry of the partial summary judgment was heard before the Court. The Court entered the partial summary judgment in the amount of $1.7 million in favor of Blue Dolphin and against LEH and LLRII on the promissory note and Guaranty. The only claim that remains pending is the counter-claim alleging breach of contract under the confidentiality agreement. Our cash flow projections suggest that, should the damages awarded under the partial summary judgment not be recovered, we could deplete our cash reserves by the end of the third quarter of 2011. If we are not able to generate sufficient funds from our operations, monetize our pipeline assets, or obtain financing from other sources, we may not be able to continue our operations. In the past four years we have used a portion of our cash reserves to fund working capital requirements that were not funded from our operations. Continued pipeline underutilization, low commodity prices, production problems, reserve declines, unfavorable drilling results and other factors beyond our control could further reduce funds from our operations. Currently, we project that our current cash reserves will be sufficient to meet our obligations through the third quarter of 2011. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may have to seek debt and/or equity financing to meet our working capital requirements. Our history of losses may affect our ability to raise additional capital and increase the cost and terms of obtaining such financing. In the event we are not able to raise additional capital, we may be forced to sell our assets or discontinue our operations. We are primarily dependent on revenue from our pipeline systems and our working interests in four oil and gas producing properties. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 69% of our revenue was derived from our pipeline operations. We expect that future revenue will continue to be primarily dependent on the usage level on our pipeline systems. Various factors can influence the usage level, including the success of drilling programs in the areas near our pipelines and our ability to attract new producer/shippers. There are various pipelines in and around our pipeline systems that we vigorously compete with for new producer/shippers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting new producer/shippers to our pipeline systems. The rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Most of our working interests are held in properties located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico where the rate of production generally declines more rapidly than in many other producing areas of the world. As the production level from these properties continues to decline, our revenue from oil and gas sales will decrease. Revenue from oil and gas sales accounted for approximately 31% and 6% of our total revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Unless we are able to offset declining production revenue with revenue from interests in new oil and gas properties, increased throughput from new or existing shippers/producers or acquire other revenue generating assets at an acceptable cost, our revenue and cash flow from operations will continue to decrease and our financial condition will be materially adversely affected. A significant decrease in exploration and production activity within the areas where our pipelines are located would adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. Our current business model is largely dependent upon the success of exploration and production activities along our pipeline corridors, which directly impacts our throughput volume. Current throughput on our pipelines is significantly below capacity. Failure to connect new wells to our pipelines, as well as declines in production from existing wells, will result in the amount of throughput being further reduced over time. 21 Table of Contents We have no control over the many factors that affect production activity, including prevailing and projected commodity prices, oil and gas demand, reserve levels, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. Any decrease in our pipeline throughput will negatively impact our revenue and operating income. The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to reduced demand for oil and natural gas, or lower prices for oil and natural gas, or both, which could have a negative impact on our revenue. If our Common Stock is delisted from trading on the NASDAQ, the market price of our Common Stock could be adversely affected. Our Common Stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “BDCO.” NASDAQ Marketplace Rules require issuers to maintain a minimum of $2.5 million in stockholders’ equity for continued listing. On May 20, 2010, we were notified by NASDAQ that our stockholders’ equity had fallen below the minimum listing requirement. On May 27, 2010, we submitted a compliance plan to the Panel to cure the stockholders’ equity deficiency. The compliance plan provided a pro forma calculation of the impact of our working interest in the North Sumatra Basin-Langsa Field, as well as outlined our efforts to collect on the outstanding loan receivable. As permitted under NASDAQ Listing Rules, on June 23, 2010 the Panel granted us an extension for continued listing until compliance with the stockholders’ equity requirement was fully demonstrated. On November 24, 2010, we received confirmation from NASDAQ that we had cured our stockholders’ equity deficiency. The Panel will monitor our continued compliance with the stockholders’ equity rule for a period of one year. In the event we fall out of compliance during the monitoring period, the Panel may, at its discretion, delist our Common Stock. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining the listing of our Common Stock on NASDAQ. A delisting of our Common Stock from NASDAQ could adversely affect the liquidity of our Common Stock and its market price. If NASDAQ delists our Common Stock, and our Common Stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our Common Stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or the pink sheets. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate price quotations for our Common Stock, and there would likely be a reduction in coverage by security analysts and the news media, all of which could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline further. If an active trading market for our Common Stock is not sustained, it will be difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares without further depressing the market price of our Common Stock. Delisting of our Common Stock could also make it more difficult to obtain financing or consummate deals for the continuation of our operations. The geographic concentration of our assets may have a greater effect on us compared to other companies. The majority of our assets are located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and Texas Gulf Coast region. As a result, we are at a greater risk of being impacted by local conditions compared to oil and gas companies that have their assets more geographically diversified. Any negative regional event, including commodity price fluctuations, natural disasters and restrictive governmental regulations could adversely impact our business. 22 Table of Contents A substantial and extended decline in the prices of oil and gas would have a material adverse effect on our operations. As a significant portion of our reserves are natural gas, we are impacted more by changes in natural gas prices. The tightening of natural gas supplies and demand fundamentals has resulted in extremely volatile natural gas prices, and this volatility in natural gas prices is expected to continue. Our revenue, profitability, operating cash flow and potential for growth are largely dependent on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. These factors include: • U.S. weather conditions; • the U.S. economy; • Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries actions; • governmental regulation; • political stability in the Middle East, South America and elsewhere; • the foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the price of foreign imports; • the availability of alternate fuel sources; and • the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies. In addition, low or declining oil and natural gas prices could have collateral effects that could adversely affect us, including the following: • reducing the exploration for and development of oil and gas reserves held by third party companies around our pipeline systems; • increasing our dependence on external sources of capital to meet our cash needs; and • impairing our ability to obtain needed capital. Strong competition from larger companies may negatively impact our ability to continue our operations. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies, large independent energy companies, affiliates of major interstate and intrastate pipelines and national and local gas gatherers, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than we do. Our ability to successfully compete in the marketplace is affected by many factors, including our ability to access capital and absorb risks. We believe these factors largely put us at a competitive disadvantage in consummating deals and acquiring new oil and gas properties. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated. Estimating reserves of oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are mandated by the SEC, including oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: • the quality and quantity of available data; • the interpretation of that data; • the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and • the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate. 23 Table of Contents The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based on estimates we prepared. Estimates prepared by others might differ materially from our estimates. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future production, oil and gas prices, taxes, development expenditures, abandonment costs and operating expenses most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development and prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also may be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties. The present value of future net cash flows will most likely not equate to the current market value of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on the historical 12-month average price (based on the first of the month pricing for the most recently ended fiscal year) and costs in effect at December 31, 2010. Actual future prices and costs may be materially different from the prices and costs we used. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate. Currently, third parties operate or control the development of the oil and gas properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we depend on these third party operators to properly conduct lease acquisition, drilling, completion and production operations. The failure of any such third party operator or drilling contractors, as well as other service providers working on their behalf, to properly perform services or to act in ways that are in our best interest, could adversely affect our interests. We own and generally anticipate that we will continue to own substantially less than a 50% working interest in our oil and gas prospects and properties and will therefore engage in joint operations with other working interest owners. Since we own or control less than a majority of the working interest, decisions affecting our interest could be made by the owners of a majority of the working interest. For instance, if we are unwilling or unable to participate in the costs of operations approved by owners of a majority of the working interests in a well, our working interest in the well (and possibly other wells on the property) will likely be subject to contractual “non-consent penalties.” These penalties may include, full or partial forfeiture of our interest in the well or a relinquishment of our interest in production from the well in favor of the participating working interest owners until the participating working interest owners have recovered a multiple of the costs which would have been borne by us if we had elected to participate, which often ranges from 400% to 600% of such costs. We have pursued and intend to continue pursuing acquisitions. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. One of our business strategies is to acquire operations and oil and gas assets that are complementary to our existing business operations. Acquiring operations and assets involves financial, operational and legal risks, including, but not limited to: • inadvertently becoming subject to liabilities of the acquired company that were unknown to us at the time of the acquisition, such as later asserted litigation matters or tax liabilities; • the difficulty of assimilating operations, systems and personnel of the acquired businesses; and • maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Competition from other potential buyers could cause us to pay a higher price than we otherwise might have paid and reduce our acquisition opportunities. We are often out-bid by larger, better capitalized companies for the acquisition opportunities that we pursue. 24 Table of Contents Operating hazards, including those specific to the marine environment, may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our operations are subject to inherent risks normally associated with oil and gas operations, including, but not limited to: • pipeline ruptures; • sudden violent expulsions of oil, gas and mud while drilling a well, commonly referred to as a blowout; • a cave in and collapse of the earth’s structure surrounding a well, commonly referred to as cratering; • explosions; • fires; • pollution; and • other environmental risks. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer substantial losses from injury and loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Our offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks exclusive to the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions and restrictive governmental regulation. These regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage or result in the interruption or termination of operations. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured drilling and operating activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain several types of insurance to cover our operations, including maritime employer’s liability and comprehensive general liability. Amounts exceeding base coverages are provided by primary and excess umbrella liability policies. We also maintain operator’s extra expense coverage, which covers the control of drilled or producing wells and re-drilling expenses, as well as pollution coverage for out of control wells. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable, or losses may exceed the maximum coverage amounts under our insurance policies. We do not maintain property insurance coverage on our pipelines. If a significant event occurs that is not fully insured or indemnified against, such event could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of employees could result in the failure to implement our business plan. We currently have five (5) full-time employees and regularly use the services of two (2) consultants. Success within our existing two business segments — pipeline operations and activities and oil and gas exploration and production activities — depends largely upon the efforts of certain of our executive officers, one of which has been employed by us since the early stages of our business, and continued access to the two (2) consultants, both of whom are also former employees with a long history with Blue Dolphin. The loss of services of any one of these individuals could seriously harm our business opportunities and prospects. Given our small size, our success also depends on the retention of qualified personnel in key areas. We may not be able to retain required personnel on acceptable terms due to the competition for experienced personnel from other companies in the industry. 25 Table of Contents Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively impact our operations. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require the acquisition of a permit before operations can be commenced; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment from drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling and pipeline activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells and abandoning pipelines; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. The enactment of stricter legislation or the adoption of stricter regulations could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as on the oil and gas industry in general. Our operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. We could also be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for our operations, including limited coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages. However, we do not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that occur over time or complete coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may lose the privilege to continue to operate our properties if certain environmental damages occur. The EPA imposes a variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the EPA, could have a material adverse impact on us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 