ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and/or cash flows. Risks Related to our Business The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and liquidity. Our refining earnings, cash flows and liquidity from operations depend primarily on the margin above operating expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil and natural gas liquids that are processed and blended into refined products) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining is primarily a margin-based business. To increase earnings it is important to maximize and optimize the yields of finished products while minimizing the costs of feedstock and operating expenses. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock costs contracts, our earnings and cash flows are negatively affected. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services. While an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on our refining margins therefore depends in part on how quickly and how fully refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. 13 Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, diesel, and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by, among other things: ● changes in global and local economic conditions; ● domestic and foreign demand for fuel products, especially in the United States, China and India; ● worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America; ● the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products and the volume of crude oil, feedstock and refined products imported into the United States; ● availability of and access to transportation infrastructure; ● utilization rates of U.S. refineries; ● the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to affect oil prices and maintain production controls; ● development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels; ● commodities speculation; ● natural disasters (such as hurricanes and tornadoes), accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events that can cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refineries; ● federal and state government regulations and taxes; and ● local factors, including market conditions, weather conditions and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our markets. Refining margins are volatile, and a reduction in anticipated refining margins will adversely affect the amount of cash we will have available for working capital. Historically, refining margins have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Our financial results are primarily affected by the relationship, or margin, between our refined petroleum products prices and the prices for crude oil. The cost to acquire crude oil and the price at which we can ultimately sell our refined petroleum products depend upon numerous factors beyond our control. The prices at which we sell refined petroleum products are strongly influenced by the commodity price of crude oil. If crude oil prices increase, our refined petroleum products segment margins will fall unless we are able to pass along these price increases to our wholesale customers. Increases in selling prices for refined petroleum products typically lag behind the rising cost of crude oil and may be difficult to implement when crude oil costs increase dramatically over a short period of time. Our operations are highly dependent on our relationship with Genesis and LEH, and, if we are unable to successfully maintain these relationships, our operations, liquidity and financial condition may be harmed. We are party to a variety of contracts and agreements with Genesis and its affiliates that enable the purchase of crude oil, transportation of crude oil, provision of accounting and other services, joint marketing of our refined petroleum products and funding of renovations, expansion and other capital expenditures relating to the Nixon Facility. Certain of these agreements with Genesis and its affiliates have an initial term of three years and successive one-year renewals until August 12, 2019 unless sooner terminated by Genesis or its affiliates with 180 days prior written notice. Further, we have an understanding with Genesis relating to an inventory risk management system, which is intended to reduce the commodity price risk of our finished products inventory and generate a more consistent gross margin for each barrel of refined product. LEH manages all of our subsidiaries and operates all of our assets, including the Nixon Facility, pursuant to the Management Agreement. The Management Agreement expires on the earliest to occur of: (a) the termination date of a certain agreement with a Genesis affiliate, which has an initial term of three years and successive one-year renewals until August 12, 2019 unless sooner terminated by the Genesis affiliate with 180 days prior written notice, (b) August 12, 2014, or (c) upon written notice of either party to the Management Agreement of a material breach of the Management Agreement by the other party. These agreements and understandings require us to have a close working relationship with Genesis and LEH in order for us to be successful in fully executing our business strategy. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or our relationships are not on good terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Genesis and LEH may, but are not required to, fund our working capital requirements. Historically, we have used a portion of our cash reserves and revenue from operations to fund our working capital requirements. To the extent that we are unable to fund our working capital requirements from cash reserves and revenue from operations, we have relied on Genesis and LEH for our working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2013, working capital requirements financed by Genesis and LEH was $2,538,077 and $3,659,340, respectively. In the event our working capital requirements are not funded by Genesis or LEH, or we are otherwise unable to secure sufficient liquidity to support our short term and/or long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations, comply with certain deadlines related to environmental regulations and standards or pursue our business strategies, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. 14 We may have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate. Historically, we have used a portion of our cash reserves to fund our working capital requirements that were not funded from our operations. Most recently, we have relied on advances under the Construction Funding Agreement and revenue from operations, including sales of refined products and rental of storage tanks, to fund our working capital requirements. Currently we expect that these resources will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working capital requirements over the next 12 – 18 months. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flows from operations, continue to make advances under the Construction and Funding Agreement or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations, comply with certain deadlines related to environmental regulations and standards or pursue our business strategies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. Our short-term working capital needs are primarily related to repayment of a loan agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) dated September 29, 2008 by and between LE and First International Bank as evidenced by that certain promissory note, of even date with the Loan Agreement, in the original principal amount of $10,000,000. Our long-term needs for cash include those to support ongoing capital expenditures for equipment maintenance and upgrades at the Nixon Facility. In addition, from time to time, we expect to utilize significant capital to upgrade equipment, improve facilities and reduce operational, safety and environmental risks. We may incur substantial compliance costs in connection with any new environmental, health and safety regulations. Our liquidity will affect our ability to satisfy any of these needs. As of December 31, 2013, we were in default of certain financial covenants related to a loan agreement. Although our lender granted a temporary waiver effective December 31, 2013 through December 31, 2014, our failure to comply with certain financial covenants in the loan agreement could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. We cannot assure that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding notes payable, either upon maturity or if accelerated, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on the notes payable. If we fail to comply with covenants associated with the long-term debt and such failure is not cured or waived, then the senior lender may exercise any rights and remedies available under the loan agreement and applicable law including, without limitation, foreclosing on our assets. Any such action by our senior secured lender would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern. In June 2014, new environmental regulations become effective that reduce the allowable sulfur content for commercially sold diesel in the United States. Unless the Nixon Facility undergoes significant capital upgrades, we may be limited to selling our diesel as a distillate feedstock at lower prices. New environmental regulations will become effective in June 2014 that reduce the sulfur content that is permitted to be contained in commercially sold diesel in the United States. In order to meet the lower sulfur content requirement for NRLM in the United States, the Nixon Facility may require capital upgrades in excess of approximately $50 million. In order to complete the required capital upgrades, we will have to finance such capital expenditures primarily through the issuance of debt and/or equity, which would result in dilution to existing stockholders and/or subject us to higher debt levels. We can continue to sell diesel with a higher sulfur content in the United States to other refineries and blenders as a feedstock and to other countries as a finished petroleum product. There can be no assurance that we can: (i) obtain financing for capital expenditures at rates or at terms acceptable to us, if at all, (ii) sell diesel with a higher sulfur content in the United States to other refineries and blenders as feedstock or overseas as a finished product, or (iii) sell higher sulfur diesel content at prices that we deem reasonable or at all. If sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase or if we have to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, or if we are otherwise unable to meet the EPA's RFS mandates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA has promulgated the Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS, which requires refiners to blend "renewable fuels," such as ethanol, with their petroleum fuels or purchase renewable energy credits, known as RINs, in lieu of blending. Under the RFS, the volume of renewable fuels refineries like us are obligated to blend into their finished petroleum products increases annually over time until 2022. Beginning in February 2012, the Nixon Facility was required to blend renewable fuels into its diesel fuel or purchase RINs in lieu of blending. We submitted and lodged an application with the EPA requesting a small refinery exemption under the RFS mandate (“Hardship Exemption”) due to disproportionate economic hardship and disparate impact that compliance with the RFS mandate would have on the Nixon Facility. There is no guarantee that the EPA will grant us the Hardship Exemption. In addition, existing laws and/or regulations could change, and the minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum products may increase. If we are not granted the Hardship Exemption, we may be required to purchase additional RINs on the open market and waiver credits from the EPA in order to comply with the RFS. Recently the price of RINs has been extremely volatile with pricing increases. We cannot predict the future prices of RINs or waiver credits, but the costs to obtain the necessary number of RINs and waiver credits could likely be material. Additionally, because we do not produce renewable fuels, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into our products displaces an increasing volume of our refineries' product pool, potentially materially affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability. We are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers, and the proper design, operation and maintenance of our equipment. In addition, OSHA and certain environmental regulations require that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees and state and local governmental authorities. Failure to comply with these requirements, including general industry standards, record keeping requirements and monitoring and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, may result in significant fines or compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may incur significant liability as a result of, or costs and capital expenditures to comply with, health, safety and environmental regulations relating to the recommissioning of the Nixon Facility and/or as a result of new or modified laws and regulations. The Nixon Facility returned to service in February 2012. We are currently undergoing a comprehensive review to determine our compliance with relevant federal, state and local environmental laws. During the course of our review, we may discover that we are not in compliance with existing environmental regulations. To the extent that we are out of compliance, we may incur significant liabilities, costs and capital expenditures to comply with such environmental regulations, which are complex and change frequently. Costs of compliance are often unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that the future costs will not be material. It is possible that we may identify additional cost in the future, which could result in additional obligations and expenses, including fines and penalties. 15 Our refinery, pipelines and other operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, characteristics and composition of diesel and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. Compliance with the complex array of federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, health and safety is difficult and likely will require us to make significant expenditures. Moreover, our business is inherently subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment including at neighboring areas or third-party storage, treatment or disposal facilities. Certain environmental laws impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct in connection with the investigation and cleanup of such spills, discharges or releases. As such, we may be required to pay more than our fair share of such investigation or cleanup. We may not be able to operate in compliance with all applicable environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits at all times. Violations of applicable legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or facility shutdowns. We may also be required to make significant capital expenditures or incur increased operating costs or change operations to achieve compliance with applicable standards. We cannot predict the extent to which additional environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. For example, on September 12, 2012, the EPA published final amendments to the New Source Performance Standards (“NSPS”) for petroleum refineries to be effective November 13, 2012. These amendments include standards for emissions of nitrogen oxides from process heaters and work practice standards and monitoring requirements for flares. We continue to evaluate the regulation and amended standards, as may be applicable to the operations at our refinery. We cannot currently predict costs we may incur, if any, to comply with the amended NSPS, but the costs could be material. Expenditures or costs for environmental, health and safety compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could increase our operational costs and reduce demand for our products. Continued political attention to issues concerning climate change, the role of human activity in it, and potential mitigation through regulation could have a material impact on our operations and financial results. International agreements and national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse emissions are currently in various stages of discussion or implementation. These and other greenhouse gas emissions-related laws, policies and regulations may result in substantial capital, compliance, operating and maintenance costs. The level of expenditure required to comply with these laws and regulations is uncertain and is expected to vary depending on the laws enacted in each jurisdiction, our activities in the particular jurisdiction and market conditions. Greenhouse gas emissions that could be regulated include those arising from the conversion of crude oil into refined petroleum products, the transportation of crude oil and natural gas, and the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Some matters related to these activities, such as actions taken by our competitors in response to such laws and regulations, are beyond our control. The effect of regulation on our financial performance will depend on a number of factors including, among others, the sectors covered, the greenhouse gas emissions reductions required by law, the extent to which we would be entitled to receive emission allowance allocations or would need to purchase compliance instruments on the open market or through auctions, the price and availability of emission allowances and credits and the impact of legislation or other regulation on our ability to recover the costs incurred through the pricing of our products. Material price increases or incentives to conserve or use alternative energy sources could also reduce demand for products we currently sell and adversely affect our sales volumes, revenues and margins. Our primary source of crude oil supply experiences significant price swings, which impacts our crude oil acquisition cost. The Nixon Facility is located in the heart of the Eagle Ford Shale play, an abundant source of domestic petroleum production. The gathering infrastructure in this area is developing such that, occasionally, large quantities of local crude oil may be transported in bulk away from nearby Eagle Ford Shale. When this occurs, we may experience wider than normal swings in crude oil prices in order to obtain our desired levels of crude oil. 16 We depend exclusively on GEL for our supply of crude oil and other feedstocks, and the loss of GEL or a material decrease in the supply of crude oil and other feedstocks generally available to the Nixon Facility could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We purchase 100% of our crude oil and other feedstocks exclusively from GEL under the Crude Supply Agreement. We cannot purchase crude oil or other feedstock from another supplier without the consent of GEL. We are dependent on GEL and the loss of GEL would adversely affect our financial results to the extent we were unable to find another supplier of crude oil. To the extent that GEL reduces the volumes of crude oil and other feedstocks that they supply to us as a result of declining production or competition or otherwise, our sales, net income and cash available for payments of our debt obligations would decline unless we were able to acquire comparable supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks on comparable terms from other suppliers. Fluctuations in crude oil prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as crude oil prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the fields that supply the Nixon Facility, the amount of reserves underlying the wells in these fields, the rate at which production from a well will decline or the production decisions of producers. A material decrease in either crude oil production or drilling activity in the fields that supply the Nixon Facility, as a result of depressed commodity prices, natural production declines, governmental moratoriums on drilling or production activities, the availability and the cost of capital or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil we refine. Loss of market share by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2013, a large percentage of our revenue, 92%, came from sales to five customers. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our refined petroleum products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results could be harmed. Additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our refined petroleum products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. Consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. The sale of refined petroleum products to the wholesale market is our primary business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our refined petroleum products, our operating results could suffer. Our success in the wholesale market depends in large part on our ability to maintain and grow our image and reputation as a reliable operator and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our refined petroleum products. Adverse perceptions of product quality, whether or not justified, or allegations of product quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our wholesale customers to choose refined petroleum products offered by our competitors. We are dependent on third parties for the transportation of crude oil into and refined petroleum products out of our Nixon Facility, and if these third parties become unavailable to us, our ability to process crude oil and sell refined petroleum products to wholesale markets could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on trucks for the receipt of crude oil into and the sale of refined petroleum products out of our Nixon Facility. Since we do not own or operate any of these trucks, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of the third-party trucking companies that we use, or the trucking industry in general, become unavailable to transport crude oil or our refined petroleum products because of acts of God, accidents, government regulation, terrorism or other events, our revenue and net income would be materially and adversely affected. Potential downtime at the Nixon Facility could result in lost margin opportunity, increased maintenance expense, increased inventory, and a reduction in cash available for payment of our obligations. The safe and reliable operation of the Nixon Facility is key to our financial performance and results of operations. Although currently operating at anticipated levels, the Nixon Facility is still in a recommissioning phase and may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated reasons, including maintenance and repairs, voluntary regulatory compliance measures, or cessation or suspension by regulatory authorities. Any scheduled or unscheduled downtime may result in lost margin opportunity, increased maintenance expense and a build-up of refined petroleum products inventory, which could reduce our ability to meet our payment obligations. 17 LEH holds a significant interest in us, and our related party transactions with LEH and its affiliates may cause conflicts of interest that may adversely affect us. Jonathan P. Carroll, our Chief Executive Officer, President, Assistant Treasurer and Secretary, and Tommy L. Byrd, our interim Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary, are also a member and employee, respectively, of LEH and as a result may, under certain circumstances, have interests that differ from or conflict with our interests. Further, pursuant to the Management Agreement, LEH manages and operates the Nixon Facility and Blue Dolphin’s other operations. As a result of their relationship with LEH, Messrs. Carroll and Byrd may experience conflicts of interest in the execution of their duties on behalf of Blue Dolphin including with respect to the Management Agreement. LEH owns approximately 81% of our outstanding common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Common Stock”). Mr. Carroll is the majority owner of LEH. Through its ownership of such a large amount of Common Stock, LEH has significant influence over matters such as the election of our Board of Directors (the “Board”), control over our business, policies and affairs and other matters submitted to our stockholders. LEH is entitled to vote the Common Stock it owns in accordance with its interests, which may be contrary to our interests and those of other stockholders. LEH has interests that differ from the interests of our stockholders and, as a result, there is a risk that important business decisions will not be made in the best interest of some of our stockholders. LEH and its other affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us and are not obligated to offer us business opportunities. We believe that the transactions and agreements that we have entered into with LEH and its affiliates are on terms that are at least as favorable as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from third parties. However, these relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our Board is faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and LEH or its affiliates. The appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the public’s perception of us, as well as our relationship with other companies and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. The geographic concentration of our refinery and other assets creates a significant exposure to the risks of the regional economy and other regional adverse conditions. The location of our refinery also creates the risk of significantly increased transportation costs should the supply/demand balance change in our region such that regional supply exceeds regional demand for refined products. As our refinery and other assets are located in the Eagle Ford Shale and Gulf Coast area of Texas, we primarily market our refined and retail products in a single, relatively limited geographic area. As a result, we are more susceptible to regional economic conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and any unforeseen events or circumstances that affect our operating area could also materially adversely affect our revenue. These factors include, among other things, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population. Should the supply/demand balance shift in our region as a result of changes in the local economy as discussed above, an increase in refining capacity or other reasons, resulting in supply in the PADD III region of the EIA exceeding demand, we would have to deliver refined products to customers outside of the region and thus incur considerably higher transportation costs, resulting in lower refining margins, if any. Changes in market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from companies having greater financial and other resources than we do could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The refining industry is highly competitive. Our refining operations compete with domestic refiners and marketers in the PADD III region of the United States as defined by the EIA, as well as with domestic refiners in other PADD regions and foreign refiners that import products into the United States. Certain of our competitors have larger, more complex refineries, and may be able to realize lower per-barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Several of our principal competitors are integrated national or international oil companies that are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do and have access to proprietary sources of controlled crude oil production. Unlike these competitors, we obtain all of our feedstocks from a single source. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil supply and other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose existing customers or fail to acquire new customers. 18 The dangers inherent in our operations could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities and reduce our liquidity. We are particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our operations because all of our refining operations are conducted at a single facility. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, fires, explosions, pipeline ruptures and spills, third party interference and mechanical failure of equipment at our facilities, any of which could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, pollution (such as oil spills, etc.), personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the property of others. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in the normal course of operations and following unforeseen events. In such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on, or interact with, damaged process units and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. Because all of our refining operations are conducted at a single refinery, any such event(s) at our refinery could significantly disrupt our production and distribution of refined products. Any sustained disruption would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, our offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks exclusive to the marine environment such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions and restrictive governmental regulation. These regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage or result in the interruption or termination of operations. Genesis’ hedging of our refined petroleum products may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. We are exposed to market price risk related to our refined petroleum products inventory. The spread between crude oil and refined product prices is the primary factor affecting our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our crude acquisition costs and refined petroleum products sales prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the supply of and demand for crude oil, gasoline, NLRM and other refined petroleum products. Supply and demand for these products depend on various factors, including changes in domestic and foreign economies, weather conditions, domestic and foreign political affairs, production levels, availability of imports and exports, marketing of competitive fuels, and government regulation. In May 2012, we implemented an inventory risk management policy under which Genesis may, but is not required to, use derivative instruments as certain refined product inventories exceed maximum thresholds in an effort to reduce our refined petroleum products inventory commodity price risk. However, Genesis’ execution of the inventory risk management plan is outside of our control. Accordingly, there could be situations in which Genesis fails to execute on the plan or executes on the plan in a manner that causes significant losses to us, all of which are beyond our control. In the event that our inventory risk management system fails and/or is implemented poorly or not at all, we could experience a material and negative adverse effect on our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our refineries, terminals and related facility operations and other operations face operating hazards, and the potential limits on insurance coverage could expose us to potentially significant liability costs. Our refinery, terminals and related facility operations and other assets are subject to certain operating hazards, and our cash flow from those operations could decline if any of our facilities experiences a major accident, pipeline rupture or spill, explosion or fire, is damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster, or otherwise is forced to curtail its operations or shut down. These operating hazards could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in significant curtailment or suspension of our related operations. Although we maintain insurance policies, including personal and property damage and business interruption insurance for each of our facilities with insurers in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we, with the advice of our insurance advisors and brokers, believe are reasonable and prudent, we cannot ensure that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal and property damage or significant interruption of operations. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In addition, we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business because certain risks are not fully insurable, coverage is unavailable or premium costs, in our judgment, do not justify such expenditures. For example, we are not insured for environmental accidents at all of our facilities. 19 Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of key personnel could result in the failure to implement our business plan. The success of our business operations depends largely upon the efforts of key executive officers and technical personnel. Given our small size, we may not be able to retain required personnel on acceptable terms due to the competition for experienced personnel from other companies in the industry. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 