ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating us and our business. This Annual Report contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, including the documents incorporated by reference. There are risks associated with investing in companies such as ours who are engaged in research and development. In addition to risks which could apply to any company or business, you should also consider the business we are in and the following: Research Frontiers has a history of operating losses, expects to incur additional losses in the future, and consequently will need additional funds in the future to continue its operations. Because we expect that our future revenues will consist primarily of license fees (which have not been significant to date), unless our licensees produce and sell products using our technology, Research Frontiers will not be profitable. There is no guarantee that we will ever be profitable. Since Research Frontiers was started in 1965 through December 31, 2009, its total net loss was $76,399,353. Our net loss was $4,002,761 in 2009, $2,594,843 in 2008 and $7,565,218 in 2007 (which includes non-cash accounting charge in 2009, 2008 and 2007 of $445,913, $126,408 and $4,026,855, respectively, resulting from the expensing of stock options). We have funded our operations by selling our common stock to investors. If we need additional money, there is no guarantee that it will be available when we need it, or on favorable terms. The Company would have to raise additional capital no later than the first quarter of 2011 if operations, including research and development and marketing, are to be maintained at current levels if its revenues do not increase before then. Eventual success of the Company and generation of positive cash flow will be dependent upon the extent of commercialization of products using the Company's technology by the Company's licensees and payments of continuing royalties on account thereof. Research Frontiers depends upon the activities of its licensees in order to be profitable. We do not directly manufacture or market products using SPD technology. Although a variety of products have been sold by our licensees, and because it is up to our licensees to decide when and if they will introduce products using SPD technology, we cannot predict when and if our licensees will generate substantial sales of such products. Research Frontiers' SPD technology is currently licensed to 37 companies. Other companies are also evaluating SPD technology for use in various products. In the past, some companies have evaluated our technology without proceeding further. Also, we do not intend to manufacture products using SPD technology. Instead we intend to continue to license our SPD technology to manufacturers of end products, films and emulsion. We expect that our licensees would be primarily responsible for manufacturing and marketing SPD-Smart products and components, but we are also engaging in market development activities to support our licensees and build the smart glass industry. Products using SPD technology have only recently begun to be introduced into the marketplace. Developing products using new technologies can be risky because problems, expenses and delays frequently occur, and costs may or may not come down quickly enough for such products using new technologies to rapidly penetrate mass market applications. Research Frontiers cannot control whether or not its licensees will develop SPD products. Some of our licensees appear to be more active than others, some appear to be better capitalized than others, and some licensees appear to be inactive. There is no guarantee when or if our licensees will successfully produce any commercial product using SPD technology in sufficient quantities to make the Company profitable. Because SPD technology is the only technology Research Frontiers works with, our success depends upon the viability of SPD technology which has yet to be fully proven. We have not fully ascertained the performance and long-term reliability of our technology, and therefore there is no guarantee that our technology will successfully be incorporated into all of the products which we are targeting for use of SPD technology. We expect that different product applications for SPD technology will have different performance and reliability specifications. We expect that our licensees will primarily be responsible for reliability testing, but that we may also continue to do reliability testing so that we can more effectively focus our research and development efforts towards constantly improving the performance characteristics and reliability of products using SPD technology. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 