Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any amendments or updates reflected in subsequent filings with the SEC. We believe these risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and could materially and adversely affect our business operations. Further, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our results and business operations. The continuing volatility in the financial markets and the risk of another recession could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The financial market experienced significant volatility worldwide from the third quarter of 2008 through 2012. Although the U.S., European and other foreign governments have taken various actions to try to stabilize the financial markets, it is unclear whether those actions will be effective. Therefore, the financial market volatility and the resulting negative economic impact could continue. Although we continue to monitor market conditions, we cannot predict future market conditions or their impact on our stock price or investment portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur future additional realized and unrealized losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These economic conditions have had an adverse impact on the availability and cost of credit resources generally, which could negatively affect our ability to obtain letters of credit utilized by our Lloyd’s Operations to support business written through Lloyd’s. In addition, the continuing financial market volatility and economic downturn could continue to have a material adverse effect on our insureds, agents, claimants, reinsurers, vendors and competitors. Certain of the actions U.S., European and other foreign governments have taken or may take in response to the financial market crisis have impacted certain property and casualty insurance carriers. The U.S., European and other foreign governments continue to actively take steps to implement measures to stabilize the financial markets and stimulate the economy, and it is possible that these measures could further affect the property and casualty insurance industry and its competitive landscape. Our business is concentrated in marine and energy, specialty liability and professional liability insurance, and if market conditions change adversely, or we experience large losses in these lines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a result of our strategy to focus on specialty products in niches where we have underwriting and claims handling expertise and to decrease our business in areas where pricing does not afford what we consider to be acceptable returns, our business is concentrated in the marine and energy, specialty liability and professional liability lines of business. If our results of operations from any of these lines are less favorable for any reason, including lower demand for our products on terms and conditions that we find appropriate, flat or decreased rates for our products or increased competition, the impact of a reduction could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to cyclicality in our business that may cause material fluctuations in our results. The property and casualty insurance business generally, and the marine insurance business specifically, have historically been characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of underwriting capacity have permitted attractive premium levels. We have reduced business during periods of severe competition and price declines and grown when pricing allowed an acceptable return. The cyclical trends in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries and the profitability of these industries can also be significantly affected by volatile and unpredictable developments, including what we believe to be a trend of natural disasters, fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of investments and inflationary pressures that may tend to affect the size of losses experienced by insureds. We cannot predict with accuracy whether market conditions will remain constant, improve or deteriorate. We expect that our business will continue to experience the effects of this cyclicality which, over the course of time, could result in material fluctuations in our premium volume, revenues or expenses. 26 Table of Contents We may not be successful in developing our new specialty lines which could cause us to experience losses. Since 2001, we have entered into a number of new specialty lines of business, primarily professional liability, excess casualty, primary casualty, inland marine, property catastrophe, agriculture reinsurance, and accident and health reinsurance. We continue to look for appropriate opportunities to diversify our business portfolio by offering new lines of insurance in which we believe we have sufficient underwriting and claims expertise. However, as we enter into these new specialties, because of our limited history in these new lines, there is limited financial information available to help us estimate sufficient reserve amounts for these lines and to help evaluate whether we will be able to successfully develop these new lines or the likely ultimate losses and expenses associated with these new lines. Due to our limited history in these areas, we may have less experience managing their development and growth than some of our competitors. Additionally, there is a risk that the lines of business into which we expand will not perform at the levels we anticipate. We may be unable to manage effectively our rapid growth in our lines of business, which may adversely affect our results. To control our growth effectively, we must successfully manage our new and existing lines of business. This process will require substantial management attention and additional financial resources. In addition, our growth is subject to, among other risks, the risk that we may experience difficulties and incur expenses related to hiring and retaining a technically proficient workforce. Accordingly, we may fail to realize the intended benefits of expanding into new specialty lines and we may fail to realize value from such lines relative to the resources that we invest in them. Any difficulties associated with expanding our current and future lines of business could adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur additional losses if our loss reserves are insufficient. We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated ultimate unpaid liability for losses and LAE with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projection techniques and judgment at a given accounting date. These reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Both internal and external events, including changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, may affect the reserve estimation process. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is actually reported to us. We continually refine reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which the estimates are changed. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may not be sufficient. If estimated reserves are insufficient, we will incur additional charges to earnings which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our loss reserves include amounts related to short tail and long tail classes of business. Short tail business means that claims are generally reported quickly upon occurrence of an event, making estimation of loss reserves less complex. For the long tail lines, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may elapse between the occurrence of the loss, the reporting of the loss and the settlement of the claim. The longer the time span between the incidence of a loss and the settlement of the claim, the more likely the ultimate settlement amount will vary. Our longer tail business includes general liability, including construction defect claims, as well as historical claims for asbestos exposures through our marine and aviation businesses and claims relating to our run-off businesses. Our professional liability business, though long tail with respect to settlement period, is produced on a claims-made basis (which means that the policy in-force at the time the claim is filed, rather than the policy in-force at the time the loss occurred, provides coverage) and is therefore, we believe, less likely to result in a significant time lag between the occurrence of the loss and the reporting of the loss. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not suffer substantial adverse prior period development in our business in the future. 27 Table of Contents In addition, reinsurance reserves are subject to greater uncertainty than insurance reserves primarily because a reinsurer relies on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. As a result, in relation to our reinsurance business, we are subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks reinsured by us and the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. In addition, reinsurance reserves may be less reliable than insurance reserves because there is generally a longer lapse of time from the occurrence of the event to the reporting of the loss or benefit to the reinsurer to the ultimate resolution or settlement of the loss. In addition to loss reserves, preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments. In addition to loss reserves discussed above, the Consolidated Financial Statements contain estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Any significant change in these estimates could adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial condition. We may not have access to adequate reinsurance to protect us against losses. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk we have assumed to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. Our reinsurance programs are generally subject to renewal on an annual basis. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase, which could increase our costs, or, if we were unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, especially catastrophe exposed risks, which would reduce our revenues and possibly net income. Our reinsurers may not pay on losses in a timely fashion, or at all, which may increase our costs. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims to our policyholders. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Specifically, our reinsurers may not pay claims made by us on a timely basis, or they may not pay some or all of these claims. Either of these events would increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Intense competition for our products could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive. We face competition from both domestic and foreign insurers, many of whom have longer operating histories and greater financial, marketing and management resources. Competition in the types of insurance in which we are engaged is based on many factors, including our perceived overall financial strength, pricing and other terms and conditions of products and services offered, business experience, marketing and distribution arrangements, agency and broker relationships, levels of customer service (including speed of claims payments), product differentiation and quality, operating efficiencies and underwriting. Furthermore, insureds tend to favor large, financially strong insurers, and we face the risk that we will lose market share to higher rated insurers. We may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our ability to transact business would be materially and adversely affected and our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. We depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriters, claims professionals and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our specialty lines of business. If the quality of our executive officers, underwriting or claims team and other personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialty markets in which we operate and be unable to expand our operations into new specialty markets. 28 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates may cause us to experience losses. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under insurance policies, we may require substantial liquidity at any time. Our investment portfolio, which consists largely of fixed-income investments, is our principal source of liquidity. The market value of our fixed-income investments is subject to fluctuation depending on changes in prevailing interest rates and various other factors. We do not hedge our investment portfolio against interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates during periods when we must sell fixed-income securities to satisfy liquidity needs may result in substantial realized investment losses. Our investment portfolio is subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Although our investment policy guidelines emphasize total investment return in the context of preserving and enhancing shareholder value and statutory surplus of the insurance subsidiaries, our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular types of securities. Due to these risks we may not be able to realize our investment objectives. In addition, we may be forced to liquidate investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, thereby adversely affecting our ability to conduct business and pay claims. We are exposed to significant capital market risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. If significant, declines in equity prices, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would reduce the fair value of our investment portfolio. It would also provide the opportunity to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would increase the fair value of our investment portfolio. We would then presumably earn lower rates of return on assets reinvested. We may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover liabilities. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. Included in our fixed income securities are asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current rates. Our fixed income portfolio is invested in high quality, investment-grade securities. However, we are generally permitted to invest up to 2% of our total investment portfolio in below investment-grade high yield fixed income securities. These securities, which pay a higher rate of interest, also have a higher degree of credit or default risk. These securities may also be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. While we have put in place procedures to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of our invested assets, it is possible that, in periods of economic weakness, we may experience default losses in our portfolio. This may result in a reduction of net income, capital and cash flows. We invest a portion of our portfolio in common stock or preferred stocks. The value of these assets fluctuates with the equity markets. In times of economic weakness, the market value and liquidity of these assets may decline, and may impact net income, capital and cash flows. 29 Table of Contents The functional currencies of the Company’s principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are the U.S. dollar, U.K. pound and Canadian dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations relative to the functional currencies may materially impact our financial position. Certain of our subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in currencies different than their functional currency, which exposes us to changes in currency exchange rates. In addition, locally-required capital levels are invested in local currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. Despite our mitigation efforts, an increase in interest rates or a change in foreign exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Capital may not be available to us in the future or may only be available on unfavorable terms. The capital needs of our business are dependent on several factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. If our current capital becomes insufficient for our future plans, we may need to raise additional capital through the issuance of stock or debt. Otherwise, in the case of insufficient capital, we may need to limit our growth. The terms of an equity or debt offering could be unfavorable, for example, causing dilution to our current shareholders or such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our existing securities. If we were in a situation of having inadequate capital and if we were not able to obtain additional capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected to a material extent. A downgrade in our ratings could adversely impact the competitive positions of our operating businesses or negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Ratings are a critical factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. The Insurance Companies are rated by A.M. Best and S&P. A.M. Best’s and S&P’s ratings reflect their opinions of an insurance company’s financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders, and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by A.M. Best and S&P. Our rating with S&P is subject to a negative outlook. Because these ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies, if these ratings are reduced, our competitive position in the industry, and therefore our business, could be adversely affected in a material manner. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as policyholders might move to other companies with higher ratings. In addition, a significant downgrade could subject us to higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. If we were to be downgraded below an “A-” an event of default would occur under our letter of credit facility. Refer to Note 8, Credit Facility, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our credit facility. There can be no assurance that our current ratings will continue for any given period of time. For a further discussion of our ratings, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Ratings” included herein. Continued or increased premium levies by Lloyd’s for the Lloyd’s Central Fund and cash calls for trust fund deposits or a significant downgrade of Lloyd’s A.M. Best rating could materially and adversely affect us. The Lloyd’s Central Fund protects Lloyd’s policyholders against the failure of a member of Lloyd’s to meet its obligations. The Central Fund is a mechanism which in effect mutualizes unpaid liabilities among all members, whether individual or corporate. The fund is available to back Lloyd’s policies issued after 1992. Lloyd’s requires members to contribute to the Central Fund, normally in the form of an annual contribution, although a special contribution may be levied. The Council of Lloyd’s has discretion to call up to 3% of underwriting capacity in any one year. Policies issued before 1993 have been reinsured by Equitas Insurance Limited (“Equitas”), an independent insurance company authorized by the Financial Services Authority. However, if Equitas were to fail or otherwise be unable to meet all of its obligations, Lloyd’s may take the view that it is appropriate to apply the Central Fund to discharge those liabilities Equitas failed to meet. In that case, the Council of Lloyd’s may resolve to impose a special or additional levy on the existing members, including Lloyd’s corporate members, to satisfy those liabilities. 30 Table of Contents Additionally, Lloyd’s insurance and reinsurance business is subject to local regulation, and regulators in the United States require Lloyd’s to maintain certain minimum deposits in trust funds as protection for policyholders in the United States. These deposits may be used to cover liabilities in the event of a major claim arising in the United States and Lloyd’s may require us to satisfy cash calls to meet claims payment obligations and maintain minimum trust fund amounts. Any premium levy or cash call would increase the expenses of Navigators Corporate Underwriters Ltd., our corporate members, without providing compensating revenues, and could have a material adverse effect on our results. We believe that in the event that Lloyd’s rating is downgraded, the downgrade could have a material adverse effect on our ability to underwrite business through our Lloyd’s Operations and therefore on our financial condition or results of operations. Our businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to insurers and their stockholders and other investors, and relates to authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company’s business. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in that state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies through the operation of guaranty funds. The effect of these arrangements could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which became effective on July 21, 2010, established a Federal Insurance Office to, among other responsibilities, identify issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the United States financial system. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may be more restrictive than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs. In response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States Congress has enacted legislation designed to ensure, among other things, the availability of insurance coverage for terrorist acts, including the requirement that insurers provide such coverage in certain circumstances. Refer to “Business—Regulation – United States” included herein for a discussion of the TRIA, TRIEA and TRIPRA legislation. Extensive changes to the regulatory regime for financial services in the United Kingdom have been enacted. Refer to “Business – Regulation – United Kingdom” included herein for a discussion of such proposals. 31 Table of Contents The E.U. Directive on Solvency II may affect how we manage our business, subject us to higher capital requirements and cause us to incur additional costs to conduct our business in the E.U. (including the United Kingdom) and possibly elsewhere. An E.U. directive covering the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers, known as Solvency II, was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2009. Solvency II will introduce a new system of regulation for insurers operating in the E.U. (including the United Kingdom) and presents a number of risks to us. Although Solvency II was originally stated to have become effective by October 31, 2012, implementation has been delayed several times. On December 3, 2012, the European Parliament decided to delay a vote on its Omnibus II directive until June 10, 2013. The Omnibus II directive is expected to set forth the implementation schedule for Solvency II. In addition, the Omnibus II directive is expected (among other things) to introduce a series of transitional provisions in specific areas that may extend beyond the initial implementation date of Solvency II. The details of the Solvency II project will be set out in so-called “delegated acts” and binding technical standards which will be issued by the European Commission and will be legally binding. No official drafts for any of these measures have been released. Consequently the Company’s implementation plans are based on its current understanding of the Solvency II requirements, which may change. During the next few years, we expect to undertake a significant amount of work to ensure that we meet the new requirements, which may divert finite resources from other business related tasks. Although the details of how Solvency II will apply to Navigators Insurance Company, NUAL and Syndicate 1221 are not yet fully known, it is clear that Solvency II will impose new requirements with respect to capital structure, technical provisions, solvency calculations, governance, disclosure and risk management. There is also a risk that Solvency II may increase our capital requirements for our U.K. Branch and Syndicate 1221. These new regulations have the potential to adversely affect the profitability of Navigators Insurance Company, NUAL and Syndicate 1221, and to restrict their ability to carry on their businesses as currently conducted. A significant unanswered question about how Solvency II will be implemented is whether the new regulations will apply only to Navigators Insurance Company’s U.K. Branch or to all of its operations, both within and outside of the United Kingdom and the other E.U. countries in which it operates. If the regulations are applied to Navigators Insurance Company in its entirety, we could be subject to even more onerous requirements under the new regulations. Such requirements could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably and could impose other significant restrictions on our ability to carry on our insurance business in the E.U. (including the United Kingdom) as it is now conducted. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations. The Parent Company is a holding company and relies primarily on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Parent Company in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, on earnings and on regulatory restrictions. For a discussion of our insurance subsidiaries’ current dividend-paying ability, please refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources”, included herein. The Parent Company, as an insurance holding company, and our underwriting subsidiaries are subject to regulation by some states. Such regulation generally provides that transactions between companies within our consolidated group must be fair and equitable. Transfers of assets among affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from underwriting subsidiaries and certain material transactions between companies within our consolidated group may be subject to prior notice to, or prior approval by, state regulatory authorities. Our underwriting subsidiaries are also subject to licensing and supervision by government regulatory agencies in the jurisdictions in which they do business. These regulations may set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, such as the nature of and limitations on investments, the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and stockholders and the nature and extent of required participation in insurance guaranty funds. These regulations may affect our subsidiaries’ ability to provide us with dividends. 32 Table of Contents Catastrophe losses could materially reduce our profitability. We are exposed to claims arising out of catastrophes, particularly in our marine insurance line of business and our NavTech and NavRe businesses. We have experienced, and will experience in the future, catastrophe losses which may materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, hail, severe winter weather and fires. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as war, explosions or the World Trade Center attack, or caused by unfortunate events such as the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster or the grounding of the cruise ship Costa Concordia. In addition, changing climate conditions could result in an increase in the frequency or severity of natural catastrophes, which could increase our exposure to such losses. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Although we will attempt to manage our exposure to such events, the frequency and severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The market price of Navigators common stock may be volatile. There has been significant volatility in the market for equity securities. The price of Navigators common stock may not remain at or exceed current levels. In addition to the other risk factors detailed herein, the following factors may have an adverse impact on the market price of Navigators common stock: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations, including the result of catastrophes, • changes in market valuations of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry, • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts, • issuances of common shares or other securities in the future, • a downgrade in our credit ratings, • the addition or departure of key personnel, and • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. Stock markets in the United States often experience price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of Navigators common stock. There is a risk that we may be directly or indirectly exposed to recent uncertainties with regard to European sovereign debt holdings. We are protected by various treaty and facultative reinsurance agreements. Our exposure to credit risk from any one reinsurer is managed through diversification by reinsuring with a number of different reinsurers, principally in the United States and European reinsurance markets. Consequently, we may be indirectly exposed to recent uncertainties with regard to European sovereign debt holdings through certain of our reinsurers. A table of our 20 largest reinsurers by the amount of reinsurance recoverable for ceded losses and LAE and ceded unearned premium is presented in “Business” along with their rating from two rating agencies. The 20 largest reinsurers from the United States and Europe represent 72.7% of our Reinsurance Recoverables at December 31, 2012. In addition, we invest primarily in non-sovereign fixed maturities in the European Union. As of December 31, 2012, the fair value of such securities was $83.2 million, with an amortized cost of $80.8 million representing 3.7% of our total fixed income and equity portfolio. Our largest exposure is in France with a total of $37.4 million followed by Netherlands with a total of $33.2 million. We have no direct material exposure to Greece, Portugal, Italy or Spain as of December 31, 2012. Nonetheless, the failure of the European Union member states to successfully resolve this crisis could result in the devaluation of the Euro, the abandonment of the Euro by one or more members of the European Union or the dissolution of the European Union and it is impossible to predict all of the consequences that this could have on the global economy in general or more specifically on our business. Any or all of these events could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, liquidity and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents The determination of the impairments taken on our investments is subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. The determination of the impairments taken on our investments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. We cannot assure you that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. If we experience difficulties with our information technology and telecommunications systems and/or data security, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the successful, uninterrupted functioning of our information technology (“IT”) and telecommunications systems. Our business and continued expansion is highly dependent upon our ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as pricing, quoting and processing policies, paying claims, performing actuarial and other modeling functions. A failure of our IT and telecommunication systems or the termination of third-party software licenses we rely on in order to maintain such systems could materially impact our ability to write and process business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary actuarial, legal, financial and other business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards, as well as internal exposures such as potentially dishonest employees, could expose our IT and data systems to security breaches that may result in liability to us, cause our data to be corrupted and cause us to commit resources, management time and money to prevent or correct security breaches. If we do not maintain adequate IT and telecommunications systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including inadequate information on which to base critical decisions, the loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, litigation exposures and increased administrative expenses. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. Compliance by our marine business with the legal and regulatory requirements to which they are subject is evolving and unpredictable. In addition, compliance with new sanctions and embargo laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our marine business, like our other business lines, is required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including economic sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies, both in the jurisdictions in which they are organized and where they sell their insurance and reinsurance products, and that implicate the conduct of our insureds. The insurance industry, in particular as relates to international insurance and reinsurance companies, has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United States, various states within the United States and the United Kingdom. For example, in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (the “Act”) which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions against Iran. Among other things, the Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran’s petroleum or petrochemical sector, and included provisions relating to persons that engage in certain insurance or re-insurance activities. Increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. The introduction of new or expanded economic sanctions applicable to marine insurance could also force us to exit certain geographic areas or product lines, which could have an adverse impact our profitability. 34 Table of Contents Although we intend to maintain compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and have established protocols, policies and procedures reasonably tailored to ensure compliance with all applicable embargo laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, investing in our common stock may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Moreover, our subsidiaries, such as our Lloyd’s Operations, may be subject to different sanctions and embargo laws and regulations. Our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if our Lloyd’s Operations engages in certain activities, even though such activities are lawful under applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 