RISK FACTORS OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF WE FAIL TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN EXPERIENCED SALES REPRESENTATIVES. The success and growth of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced sales representatives. There is significant competition for experienced specialty medical products sales representatives. It is uncertain whether we can continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we cannot attract, retain and motivate qualified sales personnel, we will not be able to expand our business and our ability to perform under our existing contracts will be impaired, which would negatively affect our results of operations. OUR BUSINESS WOULD SUFFER IF WE LOST KEY SUPPLIERS. Our success is partly dependent on our ability to successfully predict and adjust production capacity to meet demand, which is partly dependent upon the ability of external suppliers to deliver components at reasonable prices and in a timely manner. Capacity or supply constraints, as well as purchase commitments, could adversely affect our future operating results. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our existing supplier relationships or secure additional suppliers as needed. 15 IF SUPPLIERS TERMINATE THEIR AGREEMENTS WITH US, OUR PRODUCT OFFERINGS MAY SUFFER. Following an initial one-year term, many of our standard supplier agreements may be terminated by either party on 90 days' notice or upon a change in control of LXU. After expiration of the initial term, such suppliers may terminate or seek to renegotiate their agreements. If a significant number of suppliers terminate their agreements with us, the range of products we will be able to offer would be adversely affected. The ability of suppliers to terminate their agreements may result in new agreement terms that are less favorable to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE PARTICIPATE IS INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE WHICH COULD MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR US TO IMPROVE OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. The changing health-care environment in recent years has led to increasingly intense competition among health-care suppliers. Competition is focused on price, service and product performance. Pressure in these areas is expected to continue. Increased competition may lead to price and other forms of competition that could have a material adverse effect on our market share, business and results of operations. Also, we may face increased competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to consummate suitable acquisitions on favorable terms. Many of our competitors are, or are affiliated with, major companies. These competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources and greater name recognition and more established relationships with a large base of current and potential customers than we do. Accordingly, it may be more difficult to compete against these large competitors. SALES TO LARGER CUSTOMERS MAY INCREASE THE LENGTH OF OUR SALES CYCLE AND DECREASE OUR PROFIT MARGINS. Increasing sales to larger buyers may be an important element of our future business strategy. As we sell to larger organizations, it is expected that the time from initial contact to final approval of contracts will increase. During this sales cycle, we may expend substantial funds and management resources without any corresponding revenue. If approval of contracts is delayed or does not occur, our financial condition and operating results for a particular period may be adversely affected. Approval of contracts may be subject to delays for reasons over which we will have little or no control, including: * potential customers' internal approval processes; * customers' concerns about implementing a new method of doing business; and * seasonal and other timing effects. Increased sales to larger accounts may result in lower profit margins as larger customers typically have greater leverage in negotiating the price and other terms of business relationships. If we do not generate sufficient transaction volume to offset any lower margins, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. GOVERNMENTAL OR PRIVATE INITIATIVES TO REDUCE HEALTHCARE COSTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE SPECIALTY MEDICAL PRODUCTS INDUSTRY. The primary trend in the United States healthcare industry is toward cost containment. Comprehensive government healthcare reforms intended to reduce healthcare costs, the growth of total healthcare expenditures and expanded healthcare coverage for the uninsured have been proposed in the past and may be considered again in the near future. Implementation of government healthcare reforms may adversely affect specialty medical products companies, which could decrease the business opportunities available to us. In addition, the increasing use of managed care, centralized purchasing decisions and consolidations among, and integration of, healthcare providers are continuing to affect purchasing and usage patterns in 16 the healthcare system. Decisions regarding the use of specialty medical products are increasingly being consolidated into group purchasing organizations, regional integrated delivery systems and similar organizations and are becoming more economically focused, with decision makers taking into account the cost of the product and whether a product reduces the cost of treatment. Significant cost containment initiatives adopted by government or private entities could have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR MAJOR STOCKHOLDER HAS SUBSTANTIAL CONTROL OF US AND COULD DELAY OR PREVENT A CHANGE IN CONTROL THAT STOCKHOLDERS MAY BELIEVE WOULD IMPROVE MANAGEMENT AND/OR OUR BUSINESS. As a result of its ownership of Series G Preferred Stock and common stock, GE Capital Equity Investments, Inc. is able to exercise substantial control over the election of our directors, and many corporate actions require the approval of such stockholder. OUR COMMON STOCK IS NOT LISTED ON AN EXCHANGE WHICH MAKES IT DIFFICULT FOR OUR STOCKHOLDERS TO SELL THEIR STOCK. Although we are a public reporting company and incur the costs and regulatory burden associated with our reporting obligations, our shares of capital stock are not listed on any stock exchange or quoted on any quotation system. We cannot assure that holders of our capital stock will be able to dispose of their shares. Our ability to use our stock as consideration in potential acquisition will be hindered by the limited trading market for our stock. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our website is www.lxuhc.com. We make available, free of charge, at this website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information on the website listed above, is not and should not be considered part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this document. In addition, we will provide, at no cost, paper or electronic copies of our Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and amendments to those reports made with the SEC. Requests for such filings should be directed to ir@lxuhc.com. 