Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any amendments or updates reflected in subsequent filings with the SEC. We believe these risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and could materially and adversely affect our business operations. Further, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our results and business operations. Our business is concentrated in marine and energy, general liability and professional liability insurance, and if market conditions change adversely, or we experience large losses in these lines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a result of our strategy to focus on specialty products in niches where we have underwriting and claims handling expertise and to decline business where pricing does not afford what we consider to be acceptable returns, our business is concentrated in the marine and energy, specialty liability and professional liability lines of business. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our marine and energy business accounted for approximately 49% of our gross written premiums, our specialty business, consisting primarily of contractors’ liability insurance, accounted for approximately 36% of our gross written premiums, our professional liability business accounted for approximately 13% of our gross written premiums and the remaining 2% consists of our Inland Marine and European Property lines of business. If our results of operations from any of these lines are less favorable for any reason, including lower demand for our products on terms and conditions that we find appropriate, flat or decreased rates for our products or increased competition, the reduction could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to cyclicality in our business that may cause material fluctuations in our results. The property/casualty insurance business generally, and the marine insurance business specifically, have historically been characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of underwriting capacity have permitted attractive premium levels. We have reduced business during periods of severe competition and price declines, such as withdrawing from the majority of our aviation business in late 1998, and grown when pricing allowed an acceptable return, as with entering the professional liability business in late 2001. We expect that our business will continue to experience the effects of this cyclicality, which over the course of time, could result in material fluctuations in our premium volume, revenues or expenses. We may not be successful in developing our new specialty lines which could cause us to experience losses. Since 2001, we have entered into a number of new specialty lines of business including professional liability, excess casualty, personal umbrella insurance, commercial automobile insurance, general liability for certain aspects of the hospitality industry and personal lines warranty coverage on underground fuel tanks excluding pollution coverage. We continue to look for appropriate opportunities to diversify our business portfolio by offering new lines of insurance in which we believe we have sufficient underwriting and claims expertise. However, because of our limited history in these new lines, there is limited financial information available to help us estimate sufficient reserve amounts for these lines and to help evaluate whether we will be able to successfully develop these new lines or the likely ultimate losses and expenses associated with these new lines. Due to our limited history in these lines, we may have less experience managing their development and growth than some of our competitors. Additionally, there is a risk that the lines of business into which we expand will not perform at the levels we anticipate. We may be unable to manage effectively our rapid growth in our lines of business, which may adversely affect our results. To control our growth effectively, we must successfully manage our new and existing lines of business. This process will require substantial management attention and additional financial resources. In addition, our growth is subject to, among other risks, the risk that we may experience difficulties and incur expenses related to hiring and retaining a technically proficient workforce. Accordingly, we may fail to realize the intended benefits of expanding into new specialty lines and we may fail to realize value from such lines relative to the resources that we invest in them. Any difficulties associated with expanding our current and future lines of business could adversely affect our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We may incur additional losses if our loss reserves are insufficient. We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated ultimate unpaid liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projection techniques and judgment at a given accounting date. These reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Both internal and external events, including changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, may affect the reserve estimation process. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. We continually refine reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which the estimates are changed. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may not be sufficient. If estimated reserves are insufficient, we will incur additional income statement charges. Our loss reserves include amounts related to short tail and long tail classes of business. Short tail business means that claims are generally reported quickly upon occurrence of an event, making estimation of loss reserves less complex. For the long tail lines, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may elapse between the occurrence of the loss, the reporting of the loss and the settlement of the claim. The longer the time span between the incidence of a loss and the settlement of the claim, the more likely the ultimate settlement amount will vary. Our longer tail business includes general liability, including construction defect claims, as well as historical claims for asbestos exposures through our marine and aviation businesses and claims relating to our run-off businesses. Our professional liability business, though long tail with respect to settlement period, is produced on a claims-made basis (which means that the policy in-force at the time the claim is filed, rather than the policy in-force at the time the loss occurred, provides coverage) and is therefore, we believe, less likely to result in a significant time lag between the occurrence of the loss and the reporting of the loss. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not suffer substantial adverse prior period development in our business in the future. In addition to loss reserves, preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments. In addition to loss reserves discussed above, the consolidated financial statements contain estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Any significant change in these estimates could adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial condition. We may not have access to adequate reinsurance to protect us against losses. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk we have assumed to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. Our reinsurance programs are generally subject to renewal on an annual basis. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase, which could increase our costs, or, if we were unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, especially catastrophe exposed risks, which would reduce our revenues and possibly net income. Our reinsurers, including the other participants in the marine pool, may not pay on losses in a timely fashion, or at all, which may increase our costs. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims to our policyholders. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Specifically, our reinsurers may not pay claims made by us on a timely basis, or they may not pay some or all of these claims. Either of these events would increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business. The operations of the marine pool also expose us to reinsurance credit risk from other participants in the marine pool on business written through the 2005 underwriting year. From 1998 through 2005, all business underwritten by the marine pool was written with Navigators Insurance Company as the primary insurer. Navigators Insurance Company then reinsured its exposure in the marine pool to the other participants based on their percentage of participation. From 1983 until 1998, Navigators Insurance Company was the primary insurer for some of the pool business in excess of its participation amount. As a result of these arrangements, we remain primarily liable for claims arising out of those policies written by Navigators Insurance Company on behalf of the marine pool even if one or more of the other participants do not pay the claims they reinsured, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The marine pool was eliminated beginning with the 2006 underwriting year. Intense competition for our products could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive. We face competition from both domestic and foreign insurers, many of whom have longer operating histories and greater financial, marketing and management resources. Competition in the types of insurance in which we are engaged is based on many 29 Table of Contents factors, including our perceived overall financial strength, pricing and other terms and conditions of products and services offered, business experience, marketing and distribution arrangements, agency and broker relationships, levels of customer service (including speed of claims payments), product differentiation and quality, operating efficiencies and underwriting. Furthermore, insureds tend to favor large, financially strong insurers, and we face the risk that we will lose market share to higher rated insurers. The entry of banks and brokerage firms into the insurance business poses new challenges for insurance companies and agents. These challenges from industries traditionally outside the insurance business could heighten the competition in the property and casualty industry. We may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our ability to transact business would be materially and adversely affected and our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. We depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriters and claims professionals and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our specialty lines of business. If the quality of our executive officers, underwriting or claims team and other personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialty markets in which we operate and be unable to expand our operations into new specialty markets. Increases in interest rates may cause us to experience losses. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under insurance policies, we may require substantial liquidity at any time. Our investment portfolio, which consists largely of fixed-income investments, is our principal source of liquidity. The market value of our fixed-income investments is subject to fluctuation depending on changes in prevailing interest rates and various other factors. We do not hedge our investment portfolio against interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates during periods when we must sell fixed-income securities to satisfy liquidity needs may result in realized investment losses. Our investment portfolio is subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and/or financial condition. Although our investment policy guidelines emphasis total investment return in the context of preserving and enhancing shareholder value and statutory surplus of the insurance subsidiaries, our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular types of securities. Due to these risks we may not be able to realize our investment objectives. In addition, we may be forced to liquidate investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, thereby adversely affecting our ability to conduct business and pay claims. We are exposed to significant capital market risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. If significant, declines in equity prices, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would reduce the net unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio. It would also provide the opportunity to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would increase the net unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio. We would then presumably earn lower rates of return on assets reinvested. We may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover liabilities. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. Included in our fixed income securities are asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current rates. Our fixed income portfolio is invested in high quality, investment-grade securities. However, we are permitted to invest up to 5% of the Company’s book value in below investment-grade high yield fixed income securities. These securities, which pay a higher rate of interest, also have a higher degree of credit or default risk. These securities may also be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. While we have put in place procedures to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of our invested assets, it is possible that, in periods of economic weakness, we may experience default losses in our portfolio. This may result in a reduction of net income, capital and cash flows. We invest a portion of our portfolio in common stock or preferred stocks. The value of these assets fluctuates with the equity markets. In times of economic weakness, the market value and liquidity of these assets may decline, and may impact net income, capital and cash flows. The functional currencies of the Company’s principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are the U.S. dollar, U.K. sterling and the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations relative to the 30 Table of Contents functional currencies may materially impact our financial position. Certain of our subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in currencies different than their functional currency, which exposes us to changes in currency exchange rates. In addition, locally-required capital levels are invested in local currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. Despite our mitigation efforts, an increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. Capital may not be available in the future, or available on unfavorable terms. The capital needs of our business is dependent on several factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. If our current capital becomes insufficient for our future plans, we may need to raise additional capital through the issuance of stock or debt. Otherwise, in the case of insufficient capital, we may need to limit our growth. The terms of an equity or debt offering could be unfavorable, for example, causing dilution to our current shareholders or such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our existing securities. If we were in a situation of having inadequate capital and if we were not able to obtain additional capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. A downgrade in our ratings could adversely impact the competitive positions of our operating businesses. Ratings are a critical factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. The Insurance Companies are rated by A.M. Best and S&P. A.M. Best’s and S&P’s ratings reflect their opinions of an insurance company’s financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders, and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by A.M. Best and S&P. A.M. Best reaffirmed its ”A” (Excellent) rating for Navigators Insurance Company and Navigators Specialty Insurance Company in 2007. S&P also reaffirmed its ”A” (Strong) rating for Navigators Insurance Company and Navigators Specialty Insurance Company in 2007. Because these ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies, if these ratings are reduced, our competitive position in the industry, and therefore our business, could be adversely affected. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as policyholders might move to other companies with higher ratings. There can be no assurance that our current ratings will continue for any given period of time. For a further discussion of our ratings, see “Description of Business—Ratings” included herein. Continued or increased premium levies by Lloyd’s for the Lloyd’s Central Fund and cash calls for trust fund deposits or a significant downgrade of Lloyd’s A.M. Best rating could materially and adversely affect us. The Lloyd’s Central Fund protects Lloyd’s policyholders against the failure of a member of Lloyd’s to meet its obligations. The Central Fund is a mechanism which in effect mutualizes unpaid liabilities among all members, whether individual or corporate. The fund is available to back Lloyd’s policies issued after 1992. Lloyd’s requires members to contribute to the Central Fund, normally in the form of an annual contribution, although a special contribution may be levied. The Council of Lloyd’s has discretion to call up to 3% of underwriting capacity in any one year. Policies issued before 1993 have been reinsured by Equitas, an independent insurance company authorized by the Financial Services Authority. However, if Equitas were to fail or otherwise be unable to meet all of its obligations, Lloyd’s may take the view that it is appropriate to apply the Central Fund to discharge those liabilities Equitas failed to meet. In that case, the Council of Lloyd’s may resolve to impose a special or additional levy on the existing members, including Lloyd’s corporate members, to satisfy those liabilities. Additionally, Lloyd’s insurance and reinsurance business is subject to local regulation, and regulators in the United States require Lloyd’s to maintain certain minimum deposits in trust funds as protection for policyholders in the United States. These deposits may be used to cover liabilities in the event of a major claim arising in the United States and Lloyd’s may require us to satisfy cash calls to meet claims payment obligations and maintain minimum trust fund amounts. Any premium levy or cash call would increase the expenses of Millennium Underwriting Ltd. and Navigators Corporate Underwriters Ltd., our corporate members, without providing compensating revenues, and could have a material adverse effect on our results. The Lloyd’s of London market is currently rated “A” (Excellent) by A.M. Best and “A+” (Strong) by S&P. We believe that in the event that Lloyd’s rating is downgraded below “A-” in the future, the downgrade could have a material adverse effect on our ability to underwrite business through our Lloyd’s Operations and therefore on our financial condition or results of operations. Our businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to insurers and their stockholders and other investors, and relates to authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company’s business. 31 Table of Contents Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in that state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. The effect of these arrangements could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may be more restrictive than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs. In response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States Congress has enacted legislation designed to ensure, among other things, the availability of insurance coverage for terrorist acts, including the requirement that insurers provide such coverage in certain circumstances. See “Regulation—United States” included herein for a discussion of the TRIA, TRIEA and TRIPRA legislation. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations. We are a holding company and rely primarily on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, on earnings and on regulatory restrictions. For a discussion of our insurance subsidiaries’ current dividend-paying ability, please see ”Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” included herein. We and our underwriting subsidiaries are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company. Such regulation generally provides that transactions between companies within our consolidated group must be fair and equitable. Transfers of assets among affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from underwriting subsidiaries and certain material transactions between companies within our consolidated group may be subject to prior notice to, or prior approval by, state regulatory authorities. Our underwriting subsidiaries are also subject to licensing and supervision by government regulatory agencies in the jurisdictions in which they do business. These regulations may set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, such as the nature of and limitations on investments, the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and stockholders and the nature and extent of required participation in insurance guaranty funds. These regulations may affect our subsidiaries’ ability to provide us with dividends. Catastrophe losses could materially reduce our profitability. We are exposed to claims arising out of catastrophes, particularly in our marine insurance line of business. We have experienced, and will experience in the future, catastrophe losses which may materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather and fires. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as the World Trade Center attack. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Although we will attempt to manage our exposure to such events, the frequency and severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The market price of Navigators common stock may be volatile. There has been significant volatility in the market for equity securities. The price of Navigators common stock may not remain at or exceed current levels. The following factors may have an adverse impact on the market price of Navigators common stock: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations, including the result of catastrophes, • changes in market valuations of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry, • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts, • issuances of common shares or other securities in the future, • the addition or departure of key personnel, and • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. Stock markets in the United States often experience price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of Navigators common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 