D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to our Business Operations Our inability to fund our capital expenditure requirements may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to generate increased revenue from our existing operations and to raise capital from outside sources. We believe that in order to continue to capture additional market share and generate additional revenue, we will be required to raise additional capital to fund the acquisition of additional mines and mining rights. In the future we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial position, competitive position, growth and profitability. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including: · our financial condition and results of operations; · the condition of the PRC economy and the mining industry in the PRC; and · general conditions in relevant financial markets in the United States, the PRC and elsewhere in the world. 3 We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. We may face challenges in identifying attractive mining sites, additional mining rights and/or complementary mining businesses, acquiring those rights, sites and/ or businesses, integrating their activities with ours and managing them profitably. Such eventualities will increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy such increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause administrative inefficiencies. Our earnings and, therefore, our profitability, may be affected by metals price volatility. The majority of our revenue is derived from the sale of iron, zinc and, through September 29, 2009, blister copper and as a result, our earnings are directly related to the prices of these metals. At present, the prices of these metals in the PRC are generally in line with those in the international markets. However, there are many factors influencing the price of iron, zinc and copper including expectations for inflation; global and regional demand and production; political and economic conditions; and production costs in major producing regions. These factors are beyond our control and are impossible for us to predict. Changes in the prices of zinc, iron and copper may adversely affect our operating results. We do not have any formal hedging policies to manage possible price fluctuations. The future financial performance of our coal mines is highly dependent on the price of coal. The coal mines expected to be operated by our subsidiaries are currently under construction. During the construction process, the coal mine sites are expected to produce some raw coal. However, the future financial performance of the mines are and will continue to be significantly affected by the market prices of the raw coal or anthracite that it produces. The world and PRC market prices for coal have historically fluctuated widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond our and our subsidiaries’ control, including the overall demand for and world-wide supply of coal, the availability and prices of competing commodities, international economic and political conditions, inventory levels maintained by users and currency exchange rates. It is difficult to predict whether coal prices will rise or fall in the future. A decline in coal price could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our estimates of the “probable” reserves contained in the mines that we operate are based upon various assumptions, and if our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, or if minerals are depleted from our mines prior to termination of our mineral rights, our revenues, profitability and the market price for our shares may be adversely affected. The mines in which we have acquired mineral rights are the subject of geological surveys performed by licensed valuers in the PRC in conformity with procedures and protocols in the PRC. While these procedures and protocols are different from the procedures and protocols generally recognized in the United States, they are, with respect to certain of our mining properties, sufficient to support the existence of “probable” reserves. However, reserve estimation is an interpretive process based upon available data and various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, and the economic value of ore reserves may be adversely affected by price fluctuations in the metal market, reduced recovery rates or a rise in production costs as a result of inflation or other technical problems arising in the course of extraction. In addition, if the assumptions upon which our estimates of “probable” reserves are based prove to be inaccura te, there may not be sufficient mineral deposits at our properties to allow us to extract minerals at current levels for the duration of our mining rights. If we are unable to extract minerals at the current rate and for the full duration of our mineral rights, our revenues, profitability and, possibly, the market price for our shares may suffer. We are also engaged in mineral exploration activities at certain mining properties for which feasibility studies have not yet been performed. As to these properties, we are unable to provide any estimates of “proven” or “probable” reserves, and there is no assurance that any or all of these properties will prove to contain sufficient mineral deposits to justify further exploration activities. 4 If we do not replace revenues from operations that we have disposed of, our revenue production and profitability will be adversely affected. Our revenues and profitability for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 were significantly less than we achieved for the 2008 fiscal year, due in substantial part to the disposition of our remaining interest in Mark Faith. Unless we are able to replace the revenues from discontinued operations with increased revenues from existing operations or revenues derived from acquired operations, our future revenue-production and, therefore, our profitability, will be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully compete for mineral rights with companies having greater financial resources than we have. Mines have limited lives and as a result, we seek to expand mineral reserves through the acquisition of additional mining rights. As there is a limited supply of desirable mineral deposits in the PRC, we face strong competition for mining rights from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we have, we may not be able to acquire attractive mineral rights on acceptable terms. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by amortization policies applicable to mining rights. Mining rights are amortized based on actual units of production over estimated proven and/ or probable reserves of the mines, subject to impairment. We review the production plans and the reserve levels of our mines periodically. Accordingly, any material change in mining production or modification of reserve levels may have a negative impact on our operating results. We rely on sub-contractors to perform mineral extraction and we have little control over their operations. We sub-contract ore extraction to third parties. To a large extent, our operations are affected by the performance of these subcontractors, whose activities are substantially outside of our control. If the contractors fail to achieve monthly extraction volumes, or the contractors otherwise fail to perform their obligations to us, the agreement may be terminated by us; however, termination of the relationship would cause delays in our mineral production, require that we identify and engage other third-party contractors, and adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to numerous risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our mining operations are subject to a number of risks and hazards including: · environmental hazards; · industrial accidents; · unusual or unexpected geologic formations; · explosive rock failures; and · flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in: · damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities; · personal injury or death; · environmental damage; · delays in mining; · monetary losses; and · legal liability. We emphasize environmental protection in our operations and related activities, and a significant financial commitment has been made towards the construction of environmental protection facilities and the establishment of a sound environmental protection management and monitoring system. While we believe that our operating subsidiaries are currently in compliance with applicable environmental regulations of the PRC government, any changes to these regulations may increase operating costs and may adversely affect our results of operations. 5 During the course of mining activities, we use dangerous materials. Although we have established stringent rules relating to the storage, handling and use of such dangerous materials, there is no assurance that accidents will not occur. Should we be held liable for any such accident, we may be subject to penalties, and possible criminal proceedings may be brought against its employees. Wuhu Feishang depends on a single customer for its zinc production with whom Wuhu Feishang has no binding contractual understandings, and the loss of that customer would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Wuhu Feishang’s entire production of zinc for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 were sold to a single customer, Huludao Zinc Industry Co. Ltd. (“Huludao”), the largest zinc smelter in Asia. Wuhu Feishang is a party to a one-year sales contract with Huludao, subject to renewal every year; however, the sales contract does not obligate Huludao to purchase zinc from Wuhu Feishang. In the event Huludao ceases or reduces its purchases from Wuhu Feishang, or if Wuhu Feishang and Huludao are unable to agree upon renewal terms or Wuhu Feishang’s sales contract with Huludao is not renewed for any other reason, Wuhu Feishang will have to identify one or more alternative outlets for its mineral production. While the sales contract has been renewed on an annual basis in the past, the loss of Huludao as a source for Wuhu Feishang’s zinc production could cause delays in revenue generation and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to PRC Operations and Foreign Private Issuer Status Investors should consider political, economic and legal factors applicable to investments in the PRC prior to investing in our company. Since 1997, the PRC government has been making efforts to promote reforms of its economic system. These reforms have brought about marked economic growth and social progress, and the economy of China has shifted from a planned economy to a socialist market economy. Our PRC subsidiaries have also benefited from the economic reforms implemented by the PRC government and the economic policies and measures. However, economic, legal and social policies in the PRC are not similar to those of Western governments and revisions or amendments may be made to these policies and measures from time to time, and we are not in a position to predict whether any change in the political, economic or social conditions may adversely affect our operating results, and how those changes may impact on us. The PRC legal system is a statutory law system. Unlike the common law system, decided legal cases have little significance for guidance, and rulings by the court can only be used as reference with little value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC government has established a commercial law system, and significant progress has been made in promulgating laws and regulations relating to economic affairs. In addition, in line with its transformation from a centrally-planned economy to a more free market-oriented economy, the PRC government is still in the process of developing a comprehensive set of laws and regulations. Examples are the organization of companies and their regulation, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, these regulations are relatively new and the availability of public cases as well as the judicial interpretation of them is limited in number. Moreover, as they are not binding, both the implementation and int erpretation of these regulations are uncertain in many areas. Other examples include that the PRC government may impose restrictions on the amount of tariff that may be payable by municipal governments to waste water treatment service providers like us. Also, more stringent environmental regulations may also affect our ability to comply with, or our costs to comply with, such regulations. Such changes, if implemented, may adversely affect our business operations and may reduce our profitability. The interpretation of PRC laws may also be subject to policy changes reflecting domestic political changes, and new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. The activities of our subsidiaries in China are subject to PRC regulations governing PRC companies. We face the risk that changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business. The PRC’s economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals. Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of the PRC. The PRC government has confirmed that economic development will follow the model of a market economy. Under this direction, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure 6 you that this will be the case. A change in policies by the PRC government could adversely affect our interests by, among other factors: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof, confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies, or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than two decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic and social life. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactive ly. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. We are a holding company. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC, and all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The mining industry in the PRC is relatively new and growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our services. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credit, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Such an austere policy can lead to a slowing of economic growth. In October 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central ban k would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our services and recycled products. Although the People’s Bank of China continued to lower interest rates since 2008 as part of the economic boosting policy and revitalization scheme in order to combat the impact of the current global financial crisis, it is generally believed that inflation will have an impact on the economy as conditions improve. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our subsidiaries in China. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely primarily on dividend payments from our subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. 7 Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common shares. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 11.9% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar up to December 31, 2007. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. The appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar has slowed since 2008, however, it is generally believed that RMB will continue to appreciate as economic conditions improve. Recent PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents, have undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. Recent regulations promulgated by the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undergone a number of changes which may increase the administrative burden we face. The failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. 8 In 2005, SAFE promulgated regulations in the form of public notices, which require registrations with, and approval from, SAFE on direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC resident individuals. The SAFE regulations require that if an offshore company directly or indirectly formed by or controlled by PRC resident individuals, known as “SPC,” intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the SAFE. Without registration, the PRC entity cannot remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and all of our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on U.S. Federal Securities Laws against us and our officers and directors or to enforce a judgment of a United States court against us or our officers and directors in the PRC. During 2004, we became a British Virgin Islands company, and our officers and directors are non-residents of the United States, our assets are located in the PRC and our operations are conducted in the PRC. Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of process on such persons in the United States, and it may be difficult to enforce any judgments rendered against us or them. Moreover, there is doubt whether courts in the British Virgin Islands or the PRC would enforce (a) judgments of United States courts against us, or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the Unites States or any state, or (b) in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands or the PRC, liabilities against us or any non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Our status as a “foreign private issuer” results in less information being available about us than about domestic reporting companies. We are foreign private issuer and are not required to file as much information about us as United States issuers are required to file. In this regard we are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K; we are exempt from the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures; the SEC proxy statement and information statement rules do not apply; and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are not required to file reports detailing their beneficial ownership of our shares. There is generally greater information available about United States issuers than about foreign private issuers such as us, and the lack of information about us makes it more difficult to make investment decisions about us. As a “foreign private issuer” we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by NASDAQ that other NASDAQ -listed issuers are required to comply with, some of which are designed to provide information to and protect investors. Our common shares are currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by NASDAQ applicable to listed companies. As permitted under NASDAQ rules applicable to foreign private issuers such as China Natural Resources, we have determined not to comply with the following NASDAQ rules: · a majority of our Board of Directors are not independent as defined by NASDAQ rules; · our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; · the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the Board or by the independent members of the Board of Directors, and our CEO may be present in the deliberations concerning his compensation; · related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the Board of Directors; · we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party acquisitions or other acquisitions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person; and · we are not required to hold an in-person annual meeting to elect directors and transact other business customarily conducted at an annual meeting. We may in the future determine to voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions. 9 Risks Related to our Common Shares There are a limited number of our common shares in the public float and trading in our shares is not active; therefore, our common shares tend to experience price volatility. There are currently approximately 7,260,897 of our common shares in the public float and, in general, there has not been an active trading market for our shares. Our shares tend to trade along with other shares of public companies whose operations are based in the People’s Republic of China. These shares tend to exhibit periods of extreme volatility and price fluctuations, even when there are no events peculiar to the Company that appear to warrant price changes. We cannot assure you that price volatility will not continue in the future or, as a result thereof, that market prices will reflect actual values of our company. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The share price could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative new or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be in the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Our Chief Executive Officer and his affiliates control us through their stock ownership and their interests may differ from other shareholders. Li Feilie, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 65% of our outstanding common shares, and as a result, Mr. Li is and will continue to be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions such as business combinations. Mr. Li’s interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Additional information relating to the beneficial ownership of our securities is contained elsewhere in this report under “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.” The rights of our shareholders are subject to British Virgin Islands law, the provisions of which may not be as favorable to shareholders as US law. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a United States corporation. In this regard, our directors are permitted to take action that, under the laws of most states of the United States, require shareholder approval. These actions include authorizing reorganizations, asset sales (of less than 50% of our total assets) and amendments to our Memorandum and Articles of Association (that do not vary the rights of shareholders). The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under our articles of association and the existence of indemnification of our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of association contains provisions which eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to us and to our stockholders to the maximum extent permitted under the corporate laws of the British Virgin Islands. We may provide contractual indemnification obligations under agreements with our directors, officers and employees. These indemnification obligations could result in our incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors, officers and employees, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage us from bringing a lawsuit against directors, officers and employees for breach of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors, officers and employees even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit us Company and our shareholders . It is not possible to foresee all risks that may affect us. Moreover, we cannot predict whether we will successfully effectuate our current business plan. Each prospective purchaser is encouraged to carefully analyze the risks and merits of an investment in the shares and should take into consideration when making such analysis, among others, the Risk Factors discussed above. 10 