D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Mining Operations If we are unable to fund our capital expenditure requirements our growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to generate increased revenue from our existing operations and to raise capital from outside sources. We believe that in order to continue to capture additional market share and generate additional revenue, we will be required to raise additional capital to fund the acquisition of additional mines and mining rights. In the future we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial position, competitive position, growth and profitability. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including: · our financial condition and results of operations; · the condition of the PRC economy and the mining industry in the PRC; and · general conditions in relevant financial markets in the United States, the PRC and elsewhere in the world. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. We may face challenges in identifying attractive mining sites, additional mining rights and/ or complementary mining businesses, acquiring those rights, sites and/ or businesses, integrating their activities with ours and managing them profitably. Such eventualities will increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy such increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause administrative inefficiencies. 3 We may be unable to successfully compete for mineral rights with companies having greater financial resources than we have. Mines have limited lives and as a result, we seek to expand mineral reserves through the acquisition of additional mining rights. As there is a limited supply of desirable mineral deposits in the PRC, we face strong competition for mining rights from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we have. As a result, we may not be able to acquire attractive mineral rights on acceptable terms. We are subject to numerous risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our mining operations are subject to a number of risks and hazards including: · environmental hazards; · industrial accidents; · unusual or unexpected geologic formations; · explosive rock failures; and · flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in: · damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities; · personnel injury or death; · environmental damage; · delays in mining; · monetary losses; and · legal liability. We emphasize environmental protection in our operations and related activities, and a significant financial commitment has been made towards the construction of environmental protection facilities and the establishment of a sound environmental protection management and monitoring system. While we believe that our operating subsidiaries are currently in compliance with applicable environmental regulations of the PRC government, any changes to these regulations may increase operating costs and may adversely affect our results of operations. During the course of mining activities, we use dangerous materials. Although we have established stringent rules relating to the storage, handling and use of such dangerous materials, there is no assurance that accidents will not occur. Should we be held liable for any such accident, we may be subject to penalties, and possible criminal proceedings may be brought against our employees. Risks Factors Specific Relating to our Non-ferrous Metal Operations Our earnings and, therefore, our profitability, may be affected by metals price volatility. The majority of our revenue is derived from the sale of iron and zinc, and as a result, our earnings are directly related to the prices of these metals. At present, the prices of these metals in the PRC are generally in line with those in the international markets. However, there are many factors influencing the price of iron and zinc including expectations for inflation; global and regional demand and production; political and economic conditions; and production costs in major producing regions. These factors are beyond our control and are impossible for us to predict. Changes in the prices of zinc and iron may adversely affect our operating results. We do not have any formal hedging policies to manage possible price fluctuations. 4 Our estimates of the “probable” reserves contained in the mines that we operate are based upon various assumptions, and if our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, or if minerals are depleted from our mines prior to termination of our mineral rights, our revenues, profitability and the market price for our shares may be adversely affected. The mines in which we have acquired mineral rights are the subject of geological surveys performed by licensed valuers in the PRC in conformity with procedures and protocols in the PRC. While these procedures and protocols are different from the procedures and protocols generally recognized in the United States, they are, with respect to certain of our mining properties, sufficient to support the existence of “probable” reserves. However, reserve estimation is an interpretive process based upon available data and various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, and the economic value of ore reserves may be adversely affected by price fluctuations in the metal market, reduced recovery rates or a rise in production costs as a result of inflation or other technical problems arising in the course of extraction. In addition, if the assumptions upon which our estimates of “probable” reserves are based prove to be inaccurate, there may not be sufficient mineral deposits at our properties to allow us to extract minerals at current levels for the duration of our mining rights. If we are unable to extract minerals at the current rate and for the full duration of our mineral rights, our revenues, profitability and, possibly, the market price for our shares may suffer. We are also engaged in mineral exploration activities at certain mining properties for which feasibility studies have not yet been performed. As to these properties, we are unable to provide any estimates of “proven” or “probable” reserves, and there is no assurance that any or all of these properties will be found to contain sufficient mineral deposits to justify further exploration activities. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by amortization policies applicable to mining rights. Mining rights are amortized based on actual units of production over estimated probable reserves of the mines, subject to impairment. We review the production plans and the reserve levels of our mines periodically. Accordingly, any material change in mining production or modification of reserve levels may have a negative impact on our operating results. We rely on sub-contractors to perform mineral extraction and we have little control over their operations. We sub-contract the non-ferrous ore extraction to third parties. To a large extent, our operations are affected by the performance of these subcontractors, whose activities are substantially outside of our control. If the contractors fail to achieve monthly extraction volumes, or the contractors otherwise fail to perform their obligations to us, the agreement may be terminated by us; however, termination of the relationship would cause delays in our mineral production, require that we identify and engage other third-party contractors, and otherwise adversely affect our operating results. Wuhu Feishang depends on a single customer for its zinc production with whom Wuhu Feishang has no binding contractual understandings, and the loss of that customer would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Wuhu Feishang’s entire production of zinc for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011 were sold to a single customer, Huludao Zinc Industry Co. Ltd. (“Huludao”), the largest zinc smelter in Asia. Wuhu Feishang is a party to a one-year sales contract with Huludao, subject to renewal every year; however, the sales contract does not obligate Huludao to purchase zinc from Wuhu Feishang. In the event Huludao ceases or reduces its purchases from Wuhu Feishang, or if Wuhu Feishang and Huludao are unable to agree upon renewal terms or Wuhu Feishang’s sales contract with Huludao is not renewed for any other reason, Wuhu Feishang will have to identify one or more alternative outlets for its mineral production. While the sales contract has been renewed on an annual basis since 2002, the loss of Huludao as a source for Wuhu Feishang’s zinc production could cause delays in revenue generation and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Zinc production contributed 7.04% and 11.62% of the Company’s total sales and gross profit respectively in 2011. 5 Risks Factors Specific Relating to our Coal Operations A majority of our coal mines are in development stage. A majority of our coal mining operations have not yet generated revenues for the Company. The Company has incurred debt in connection with exploration, construction and mine development of our coal mines. In the event of unforeseen delays in the production or sale of coal, cash flows from coal mines may be insufficient to repay bank loans as and when due. The future financial performance of our coal mines is highly dependent on the price of coal. With the exception of Baiping Mining, Gouchang Coal and Linjiaao Coal, the coal mines as to which our subsidiaries have acquired rights are currently under upgraded mine development and/ or pilot run. During the construction process, the coal mine sites are expected to produce some raw coal that will be available for sale to third parties. However, (a) full production and revenue generation will not commence until upgrades and pilot runs are completed and (b) the future financial performance of the mines is and will continue to be significantly affected by the market prices of the raw coal or anthracite that they produce. The world and PRC market prices for coal have historically fluctuated widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond our and our subsidiaries’ control, including the overall demand for and world-wide supply of coal, the availability and prices of competing commodities, international economic and political conditions, inventory levels maintained by users and currency exchange rates. It is difficult to predict whether coal prices will rise or fall in the future. A decline in coal price could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. Coal reserve data are estimates and may be inaccurate and hence our future annual production volumes and capital expenditures, which are based on these estimates, may differ materially from actual figures. We base our production, turnover and expenditure plans on our coal reserve data. Our coal reserve data were estimated by us based on the results of geological exploration, and were reviewed by Behre Dolbear Asia, Inc. (“Behre Dolbear”). The coal reserve data are only estimates and may differ materially from our actual mining results. There are many factors, assumptions and variables beyond our control that result in inherent uncertainties in estimating reserves. Our actual volume of reserves and rates of production may be different from these estimates. Fluctuations in factors including the price of coal, production costs and transportation costs of coal, a variation on recovery rates or unforeseen geological or geotechnical perils may render it necessary to revise the estimates of coal reserves. If such a revision results in a substantial reduction in recoverable reserves at one or more of our major mines, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. We may experience a shortage of reliable and adequate transport capacity for our coal products and any material increase in transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We currently use roadway transportation to transport our coal and coal-related products to our customers. We have not experienced any roadway transportation disruptions that had a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. After our coal mines in Guizhou province commence operation, we will also rely on the national railway system to deliver coal products from those locations to our customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure sufficient railway transport capacity to transport the coal products we produce in Guizhou province. Further, in the event of railway transport shortages, there can be no assurance that road transportation will be able to satisfy the shortfall. In addition, any material increase in transportation costs could have a negative effect on the competitiveness of our coal products, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 6 We may be unable to successfully compete for mineral rights with companies having greater financial resources than we have. Mines have limited lives and as a result, we seek to expand mineral reserves through the acquisition of additional mining rights. As there is a limited supply of desirable mineral deposits in the PRC, we face strong competition for mining rights from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we have, we may not be able to acquire attractive mineral rights on acceptable terms. We have grown primarily through acquisitions in the past, which may affect your ability to evaluate our business and growth potential. Our growth to date has occurred primarily as a result of acquisitions, many of which have been consummated with related parties. Due to our significant and rapid growth in recent years, our historical financial results may not be indicative of our future performance. Our future turnover and profitability will depend on a number of factors beyond our control, in particular, the global and domestic coal markets and our ability to acquire and develop new coal mines and coal resources and reserves. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase or maintain our historical turnover or profit levels. We may not be able to successfully integrate new coal mines into our existing business operations. Integration of new coal mines we may acquire in the future may consume a considerable amount of management and financial resources. The acquisitions may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. They may also require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our existing business. Our inability to manage and finance such undertakings while managing our existing operations may have a material adverse effect on our overall operations, our financial condition or our results of operations. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by amortization policies applicable to mining rights. Mining rights are amortized based on actual units of production over estimated proven and probable reserves of the mines, subject to impairment. We review the production plans and the reserve levels of our mines periodically. Accordingly, any material change in mining production or modification of reserve levels may have a negative impact on our operating results. Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition We have incurred losses from operations for each of the preceding two fiscal years and there is no assurance that we will generate profits in the future. For the two years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we incurred operating losses of CNY 25.88 million (US$4.11 million) and CNY61.31 million (US$9.74 million), respectively. Our operating losses are attributable, in part, to depressed prices for ore that we mine and the significant expenses we incur in connection with the exploration and development of our coal mines at a time when we are not yet producing coal or generating revenues from coal production. Our profitability is dependent upon many factors, including our ability to fund our operating expenses, mine ore and coal, and sell our production output to third parties. There is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to achieve profitability. We have a significant working capital deficit that could adversely affect our liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has a working capital deficiency of CNY329.31 million (US$52.32 million). The Shareholder has confirmed its continuous financial support to the Company. Subsequent to the year end, the Company has secured additional loan facilities totaling CNY280 million (US$44.48 million), and the Company has undrawn loan facilities totaling CNY131.26 million (US$20.85 million). The Company is in the process of negotiating renewals of existing credit facilities with its banks. The Company also has held discussions with its bankers about its future borrowing needs and no matters have been drawn to management’s attention to suggest that renewal may not be forthcoming on acceptable terms. The Company’s internal forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possibly changes in trading performance, operating as well as capital expenditures, continued Shareholder support and the availability of bank facilities, demonstrate that the Company should be able to operate within the level of its current capacity. 7 In view of the foregoing, the Company expects that it will have sufficient liquidity to finance its operations for the next 12 months. Therefore, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The going concern basis assumes that the Company will continue in operations for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. If we are unable to fund capital expenditures our growth and results of operations may be adversely affected. To date, the Company has financed its coal mine construction and upgraded mine development projects through internally generated cash, short-term and long-term bank loans, and non-interest bearing loans from Feishang Group Limited (“Feishang Group” or the “Shareholder”). However, we anticipate that we will incur significant capital expenditures in connection with future acquisitions. We expect to fund acquisitions with cash-on-hand, the issuance of our debt or equity securities, or a combination of both, and we may use our securities to raise capital to be used to fund operations. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain bank financing and/ or access the capital markets to fund our PRC operations. Our results of operations include significant non-recurring and non-cash transactions and should not be viewed as indicative of future results of operations. We recognized a significant increase in profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 which included a CNY624.15 million (US$99.15 million) bargain purchase gain relating to the acquisition of Guizhou Puxin as a part of Guizhou provincial governments’ mining resource consolidation programs. The gain arises from non-recurring and non-cash transactions and, accordingly, should not be viewed as indicative of future earnings of the Company. No similar bargain purchase gain was recognized in 2011. Risks Relating to PRC Operations Investors should consider economic, legal and political factors applicable to investments in the PRC prior to investing in our company. Since 1979, the PRC government has been making efforts to promote reforms of its economic system. These reforms have brought about marked economic growth and social progress, and the economy of China has shifted from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. Our PRC subsidiaries have also benefited from the economic reforms implemented by the PRC government and the economic policies and measures. However, economic, legal and social policies in the PRC are not similar to those of Western governments and revisions or amendments may be made to these policies and measures from time to time, and we are not in a position to predict whether any change in the political, economic or social conditions may adversely affect our operating results, and how those changes may impact on us. The PRC legal system is a statutory law system. Unlike the common law system, decided legal cases have little significance for guidance, and rulings by the court can only be used as reference with little value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC government has established a commercial law system, and significant progress has been made in promulgating laws and regulations relating to economic affairs. The PRC government is still in the process of developing a comprehensive set of laws and regulations. Examples are the organization of companies and their regulation, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, these regulations are relatively new and the availability of public cases as well as the judicial interpretation of them is limited in number. Moreover, as they are not binding, both the implementation and interpretation of these regulations are uncertain in many areas. Also, more stringent environmental regulations may also affect our ability to comply with, or our costs to comply with, such regulations. Such changes, if implemented, may adversely affect our business operations and may reduce our profitability. The interpretation of PRC laws may also be subject to policy changes reflecting domestic political changes, and new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. The activities of our subsidiaries in China are subject to PRC regulations governing PRC companies. 8 We face the risk that changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business. The PRC’s economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals. Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of the PRC. During this transition, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. A change in policies by the PRC government could adversely affect our interests by, among other factors: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof, confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies, or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than three decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic and social life. PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign-funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. We are a holding company. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC, and all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The mining industry in the PRC is relatively new and growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credit, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on bank lending. Such an austere policy can lead to a slowing of economic growth, and recent statistics have, indeed, suggested that China’s high annual economic growth will slow down. Prompted by inflationary concerns, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates in October 2010, and announced four additional interest rate hikes in December 2010, February 2011, April 2011 and July 2011. Repeated increases in interest rates by the central bank will likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products. 9 Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our subsidiaries in China. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely primarily on dividend payments from our subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits as certain reserve funds according to PRC accounting standards and regulations. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of CNY into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt in the future, the debt covenants may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to receive dividend from the operating companies due to contractual or other limitations on the payment of dividends, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common shares. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect payment of our obligations and the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. Please also refer to Item 10.D. for the details of exchange controls in the PRC. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. Conversely, if we convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars, should we determine to pay dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could affect the amount of U.S. dollars we convert. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations resulting in a lower income, a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these U.S. assets. Under a policy dating to the second half of 2005, the CNY is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed range against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an over 30% appreciation of the CNY against the U.S. dollar up to December 31, 2011. While the international reaction to the CNY revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible exchange rate policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the CNY against the U.S. dollar. While the appreciation of the CNY against the U.S. dollar has not always been steady, it is generally believed that the CNY will continue to appreciate as economic conditions improve. 10 Recent PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (the “SAFE”) Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents, have undergone continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In 2005, the SAFE promulgated regulations in the form of public notices, which require registrations with, and approval from, the SAFE on direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC resident individuals. The SAFE regulations require that if an offshore company directly or indirectly formed by or controlled by PRC resident individuals, known as “SPC,” intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the SAFE. The regulation also requires PRC resident individuals to repatriate all dividends of the SPC. Without registration with the SAFE by PRC resident individuals, the PRC entity may not be able to remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. Violation of the regulation may be deemed an evasion of foreign exchange rules and Mr. Li Feilie may be liable for a penalty. However, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations, including the regulations established by the SAFE. To date, no registration has been filed with the SAFE. Even if it is determined that registration with the SAFE is required, management believes that applicable filings with the SAFE can be made at any time, and management does not foresee significant difficulties in obtaining the SAFE’s approval should it be required. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor performs audit work in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms in Hong Kong that perform work in China, is currently not inspected by the PCAOB. Inspection of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future auditor quality. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedure. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Risks Relating to Foreign Private Issuer Status Because our assets are located outside of the United States and all of our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on U.S. Federal Securities Laws against us and our officers and directors or to enforce a judgment of a United States court against us or our officers and directors in the PRC. We are a British Virgin Islands company, and our officers and directors are non-residents of the United States, our assets are located in the PRC and our operations are conducted in the PRC. Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of process on such persons in the United States, and it may be difficult to enforce any judgments rendered against us or them. Moreover, there is doubt whether courts in the British Virgin Islands or the PRC would enforce (a) judgments of United States courts against us, or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the Unites States or any state, or (b) in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands or the PRC, liabilities against us or any non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 11 Our status as a “foreign private issuer” allows us to adopt IFRS accounting principles rather than U.S. GAAP and otherwise results in less information being available about us than about domestic reporting companies. We are foreign private issuer and are not required to file as much information about us as domestic issuers are required to file. In this regard we are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; we are exempt from the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures; the SEC proxy statement and information statement rules do not apply to us; and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are not required to file reports detailing their beneficial ownership of our shares. There is generally greater information available about domestic issuers than about foreign private issuers such as us, and the information we are not required to provide may make it more difficult to make investment decisions about us. In addition, we have adopted and presented our financial statements in accordance with IFRS accounting principles and, as permitted by SEC rules, we have not presented a reconciliation to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. IFRS accounting pricniples are different from those of U.S. GAAP and without a reconciliation, readers of our financial statements are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the provisions of IFRS accounting principles in order to better understand the differences between these two sets of accounting frameworks. As a “foreign private issuer” we are not subject to certain requirements that other NASDAQ listed issuers are required to comply with, some of which are designed to provide information to and protect investors. Our common shares are currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by NASDAQ applicable to listed companies. As permitted under NASDAQ rules applicable to foreign private issuers such as China Natural Resources, we have determined to adhere to the exemptions provided by the relevant NASDAQ rules, and as a result: · a majority of the members on our Board of Directors are not independent as defined by NASDAQ rules; · our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; · while executive compensation is recommended by our Compensation Committee which is comprised of independent directors, the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the Board of Directors, and our CEO may be present in the deliberations concerning his compensation; · related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the Board of Directors; · we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party acquisitions or other acquisitions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person; and · we are not required to hold an in-person annual meeting to elect directors and transact other business customarily conducted at an annual meeting. As a result of an exemption from NASDAQ rules applicable to “foreign private issuers,” our related party transactions may not receive the type of independent review process that other NASDAQ-listed companies receive, and the terms of these transactions may not be as favorable as could be obtained from unrelated parties. We have historically engaged in a substantial number of transactions with related parties in the ordinary course of business, predominantly with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and/or companies that he owns or controls. These transactions are described in greater detail elsewhere in this report. In general, NASDAQ rules require that related party transactions be reviewed by an audit committee or other committee comprised of independent directors. However, under NASDAQ rules applicable to foreign private issuers such as our company, we are exempt from certain NASDAQ requirements, including the requirement applicable to independent director review of related party transactions. This exemption is available to us because the laws of the British Virgin Islands, our home jurisdiction, do not mandate independent review of related party transactions. 12 Notwithstanding the foregoing, non-recurring related party transactions (i.e., related party transactions that are not in the ordinary course of business) are submitted for approval by our Board of Directors, following disclosure of the related party’s interest in the transaction, and, in all cases, board approval has historically included the unanimous approval of our independent directors. In addition, our annual audited financial statements, including the related party transactions reported therein, are approved by our audit committee, which is comprised solely of independent directors. However, except to the limited extent described above, these transactions are not individually reviewed or approved solely by independent directors, and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is often present during the approval process and is permitted to cast a vote as a board member. While management believes that related party transactions are on terms at least as favorable to the Company as could be obtained from unrelated parties, there is no assurance that such is the case, or that shareholders would not be better protected if we were not exempt from, or we chose to voluntarily comply with, the NASDAQ rule. Risks Related to our Common Shares There are a limited number of our common shares in the public float and trading in our shares is not active; therefore, our common shares tend to experience price volatility. There are currently approximately 9,448,397 of our common shares in the public float and, in general, there has not been an active trading market for our shares. Our shares tend to trade along with other shares of public companies whose operations are based in the People’s Republic of China, and, at times, in tandem with other natural resource companies. These shares tend to exhibit periods of extreme volatility and price fluctuations, even when there are no events peculiar to the Company that appear to warrant price changes. We cannot assure you that price volatility will not continue in the future or, as a result thereof, that market prices will reflect actual values of our company. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The share price could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative new or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be in the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Our Chief Executive Officer and his affiliates control us through their stock ownership and their interests may differ from other shareholders. Li Feilie, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 59% of our outstanding common shares, and as a result, Mr. Li is and will continue to be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions such as business combinations. Mr. Li’s interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Additional information relating to the beneficial ownership of our securities is contained elsewhere in this report under “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.” The rights of our shareholders are governed by British Virgin Islands law, the provisions of which may not be as favorable to shareholders as under U.S. law. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a United States corporation. In this regard, our directors are permitted to take action that, under the laws of most states of the United States, require shareholder approval. These actions include authorizing reorganizations, asset sales (of less than 50% of our total assets) and amendments to our Memorandum and Articles of Association (that do not vary the rights of shareholders). 13 The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under our articles of association and the existence of indemnification of our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of association contains provisions which eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to us and to our stockholders to the maximum extent permitted under the corporate laws of the British Virgin Islands. We may provide contractual indemnification obligations under agreements with our directors, officers and employees. These indemnification obligations could result in our incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors, officers and employees, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage us from bringing a lawsuit against directors, officers and employees for breach of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors, officers and employees even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit us Company and our shareholders. It is not possible to foresee all risks that may affect us. Moreover, we cannot predict whether we will successfully effectuate our current business plan. Each prospective purchaser is encouraged to carefully analyze the risks and merits of an investment in the shares and should take into consideration when making such analysis, among others, the Risk Factors discussed above. 