D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to our Business Operations Our inability to fund our capital expenditure requirements may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to generate increased revenue from our existing operations and to raise capital from outside sources. We believe that in order to continue to capture additional market share and generate additional revenue, we will be required to raise additional capital to fund the acquisition of additional mines and mining rights. In the future we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial position, competitive position, growth and profitability. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including: · our financial condition and results of operations, · the condition of the PRC economy and the mining industry in the PRC, and · general conditions in relevant financial markets in the United States, the PRC and elsewhere in the world. 3 We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. We may face challenges in managing our industrial waste treatment and disposal business over an expanded geographical area as well as managing a business offering expanded waste treatment services. We may also encounter difficulties in integrating acquired businesses with our own. Such eventualities will increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy such increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause administrative inefficiencies. Our earnings and, therefore, our profitability, may be affected by metals price volatility. The majority of Wuhu's revenue is derived from the sale of iron and zinc and as a result, our earnings are directly related to the prices of these metals. At present, the prices of these metals in the PRC are generally in line with those in the international markets. However, there are many factors influencing the price of iron and zinc including expectations for inflation; global and regional demand and production; political and economic conditions; and production costs in major producing regions. These factors are beyond our control and are impossible for it to predict. Changes in the prices of zinc and iron may adversely affect our operating results. We have not engaged in hedging transactions or alternative measures to manage possible price fluctuations. Feishang Copper’s future financial performance is highly dependent on the price of copper and the other metals it produces. Feishang Copper’s future financial performance is significantly affected by the market prices of the metals that it produces. The prices at which Feishang Copper sells its copper products are predominantly set by reference to copper prices on the Shanghai Metal Exchange. The world and PRC market prices for copper have historically fluctuated widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond Feishang Copper’s control, including the overall demand for and world-wide supply of copper, the availability and prices of competing commodities, international economic and political conditions, inventory levels maintained by users and currency exchange rates. It is difficult to predict whether metals prices will rise or fall in the future. A decline in copper price could have an adverse impact on Feishang Copper’s future results of operations and financial condition. We have not performed feasibility studies and, therefore, reliable estimates of proven or probable reserves cannot be provided; and if minerals are depleted from our mines prior to termination of our mineral rights, we may be unable to generate revenues. Both the quantity of ores and metal reserves are primarily based on informal estimates and we have conducted no feasibility studies to confirm the amount of proven or probable reserves contained in the mines in which we have mineral rights. While we are currently extracting and selling minerals from our mines, we are unable to predict the extent of mineral deposits in our mines or whether there will continue to be sufficient minerals deposits to allow us to extract minerals at current levels for the duration of our mining rights. Moreover, reserve estimation is an interpretive process based upon available data and various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, and the economic value of ore reserves may be adversely affected by price fluctuations in the metal market, reduced recovery rates or a rise in production costs as a result of inflation or other technical problems arising in the course of extraction. Historically, we have rely on the operating performance of a single mine and if our mine development plans are unsuccessful, we, may suffer a decrease in profitability. The principal operating asset of Wuhu is the Yang Chong Mine. Over 80% of the turnover of Wuhu was generated from the Yang Chong Mine. Since its acquisition in May 2003 until December 31, 2007, 100 % of Wuhu’s sales of zinc and approximately 70% of Wuhu's sales of iron were derived from metal output from Yang Chong Mine. Although Wuhu has expanded its operations through acquisition of additional mining rights in the PRC, and intends to continue to do so, there is no assurance that these development projects will be successful. If these development plans are unsuccessful, we may suffer a decrease in overall profit margins, operating performance and investment return. 4 We may be unable to successfully compete for mineral rights with companies having greater financial resources than we have. Mines have limited lives and as a result, we seek to expand mineral reserves through the acquisition of additional mining rights. As there is a limited supply of desirable mineral deposits in the PRC, we face strong competition for mining rights from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we have, we may not be able to acquire attractive mineral rights on acceptable terms. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by amortization policies applicable to mining rights. Mining rights are amortized based on actual units of production over estimated reserves of the mines. We review the production plans and the reserve levels of our mines periodically. Accordingly, any material change in mining production or modification of reserve levels may have a negative impact on our operating results. We rely on sub-contractors to perform mineral extraction and we have little control over their operations. We sub-contract ore extraction to third parties. To a large extent, our operations are affected by the performance of these subcontractors, whose activities are substantially outside of our control. If the contractors fail to achieve monthly extraction volumes, or the contractors otherwise fail to perform their obligations to us, the agreement may be terminated by us; however, termination of the relationship would cause delays in our mineral production, require that we identify and engage other third-party contractors, and adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to numerous risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our mining operations are subject to a number of risks and hazards including: · environment hazards; · industrial accidents; · unusual or unexpected geologic formations; · explosive rock failures; and · flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in: · damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities; · personal injury or death; · environmental damage; · delays in mining; · monetary losses; and · legal liability. We emphasize environmental protection in our operations and related activities, and a significant financial commitment has been made towards the construction of environmental protection facilities and the establishment of a sound environmental protection management and monitoring system. While we believe that our operations subsidiaries are currently in compliance with applicable environmental regulations of the PRC government, any changes to these regulations may increase operating costs and may adversely affect our results of operations. During the course of mining activities, we use dangerous materials. Although we have established stringent rules relating to the storage, handling and use of such dangerous materials, there is no assurance that accidents will not occur. Should we be held liable for any such accident, we may be subject to penalties, and possible criminal proceedings may be brought against its employees. 5 Wuhu depends on a single customer for its zinc production with whom Wuhu has no binding contractual understandings, and the loss of that customer would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Wuhu’s entire production of zinc for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 were sold to a single customer, Huludao Zinc Industry Co. Ltd. (“Huludao”), the largest zinc smelter in Asia. Wuhu is a party to a one-year sales contract with Huludao, subject to renewal every year; however, the sales contract does not obligate Huludao to purchase zinc from Wuhu. In the event Huludao ceases or reduces its purchase from Wuhu, or if Wuhu and Huludao are unable to agree upon renewal terms or Wuhu’s sales contract with Huludao is not renewed for any other reason, Wuhu will have to identify one or more alternative outlets for its mineral production. While the sales contract has been renewed on an annual basis in the past, the loss of Huludao as a source for Wuhu’s zinc production could adversely affect our results of operations. Feishang Copper’s reliance on a single major customer could adversely affect future results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 88% of Feishang Copper’s sales were made to Henchang, a related party. Feishang Copper is a party to a one-year sales contract with Henchang, subject to renewal every year; however, the sales contract does not obligate Henchang to purchase copper from Feishang Copper. Given the large percentage of sales derived from Henchang, in the event Henchang ceases or reduces its purchases from Feishang Copper, or if Feishang Copper and Henchang are unable to agree upon renewal terms or Feishang Copper’s sales contract with Henchang is not renewed for any other reason, Feishang Copper will have to identify other alternative outlets for its copper production which may have a material adverse effect on Feishang Copper’s results of operations. In the event Feishang Copper is unable to secure applicable production and other permits, it will be unable to commence commercial production. According to the PRC laws and regulations relating to production safety and environmental protection, Feishang Copper is required to obtain regulatory certifications of safe production and environmental protection and related permits from the relevant authorities before it can commence commercial production. There can be no assurance that Feishang Copper will be able to obtain the relevant production permits in a timely manner, or at all. Any delay or failure in obtaining such permits will delay or prevent the commencement of commercial production. In the event Feishang Copper does not secure building ownership certificate(s) for the properties that it owns, its rights as the owner of these properties may be adversely affected. Feishang Copper currently operates from its PRC smelting and ancillary facilities and office premises with a gross floor area of approximately 19,000 square meters. Feishang Copper is in the process of obtaining the relevant building ownership certificate. However, should Feishang Copper be unable to obtain such certificate, it will not be able to sell or transfer the properties or secure bank financing by mortgaging these properties. Changes in the level of demand for Feishang Copper’s products could adversely affect its product sales. Feishang Copper’s future revenue is dependent on the level of industrial and consumer demand for blister copper. Changes in technology, industrial processes and consumer habits may affect the level of that demand to the extent that changes increase or decrease the need for its metal products. A change in demand could impact Feishang Copper’s future results of operations and financial condition. Feishang Copper’s business requires capital investment which we may not be able to obtain. Feishang Copper’s business is capital intensive. Specifically, smelting and refining costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with laws and regulations require significant capital expenditures. There is no assurance that Feishang Copper will achieve its production capacity or generate sufficient cash to fund necessary capital expenditures, or that additional capital will be available to Feishang Copper on acceptable terms to enable it to continue smelting and refining activities at or above present levels. 6 If Feishang Copper is unable to obtain necessary raw materials at reasonable costs, its operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Feishang Copper’s smelting operations require timely supply of various raw materials including copper concentrates. Since Feishang Copper does not have its own copper mine to guarantee a stable and adequate supply of copper concentrates, such materials are generally purchased domestically from independent suppliers pursuant to long term contracts, or on the spot market. Numerous factors, such as transportation inefficiencies and rising industrial demand may affect Feishang Copper’s ability to maintain target inventories level. If raw materials prices increase more rapidly than the selling prices of copper products, Feishang Copper may be unable to maintain adequate inventories of raw materials and its financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Feishang Copper currently relies on one supplier for copper concentrates and if Feishang Copper is unable to obtain concentrates from its supplier, or the supply of concentrates is disrupted, Feishang Copper’s production rate, and its and their results of operations, will be adversely affected. Copper concentrates are required for Feishang Copper’s smelting and refining operation. Feishang Copper has a long term supply agreement with Bayannaoer West Region Copper Co. Ltd. (“Bayannaoer West”). For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 90% of Feishang Copper’s purchases of copper concentrates were from Bayannaoer West. In the event Bayannaoer West is unable to supply Feishang Copper with its requirements of concentrates, Feishang Copper may suffer delays in the production and delivery of copper, and will be forced to identify and contract with one or more other sources of concentrates. Any such delays may adversely affect Feishang Copper’s and our results of operations. Feishang Copper’s operations are affected by the availability and price of electricity and water. Feishang Copper’s smelting operations consume a substantial amount of electricity and water. In the event of shortages in the availability of electricity and/or water, or increases in the prices for electricity and/or water, Feishang Copper could experience production delays and/or increased costs, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. In the event Feishang Copper is unable to obtain necessary environmental approvals from government authorities, or in the event environmental laws change, copper production may be delayed and results of operations adversely affected. Feishang Copper commenced trial production in May 2007 and is in the process of obtaining certifications from relevant authorities, including the environment protection authority, in order to complete trial production and commence commercial production of the copper smelting facilities. There can be no assurance that Feishang Copper will be able to obtain the relevant approval in a timely manner, or at all, from the local environmental protection bureau. Any delay or failure in obtaining such approval will delay or prevent commencement of commercial production. Feishang Copper’s future operations are subject to extensive PRC environmental laws and regulations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation or implementation, or unanticipated environmental effects from its operations, could expose Feishang Copper to new or increased costs. More stringent laws or regulations may also restrict Feishang Copper’s business operations and adversely affect Feishang Copper’s business prospects. Feishang Copper’s limited operating history as a copper smelter could adversely impact its operating efficiency and allow competitors to compete against it more effectively. Feishang Copper’s limited operating history as a copper smelter could adversely affect its overall operating efficiency and ability to compete effectively against other copper producers. 7 Risks Relating to PRC Operations and Foreign Private Issuer Status Investors should consider political, economic and legal factors applicable to investments in the PRC prior to investing in our company. Since 1997, the PRC government has been making efforts to promote reforms of its economic system. These reforms have brought about marked economic growth and social progress, and the economy of China has shifted from a planned economy to a socialist market economy. Wuhu has also benefited from the economic reforms implemented by the PRC government and the economic policies and measures. However, economic, legal and social policies in the PRC are not similar to those of Western governments and revisions or amendments may be made to these policies and measures from time to time, and Wuhu is not in a position to predict whether any change in the political, economic or social conditions may adversely affect the operating results of Wuhu, and how those changes may impact on us. The PRC legal system is a statutory law system. Unlike the common law system, decided legal cases have little significance for guidance, and rulings by the court can only be used as reference with little value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC government has established a commercial law system, and significant progress has been made in promulgating laws and regulations relating to economic affairs. Examples are the organization of companies and their regulation, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, these regulations are relatively new and the availability of public cases as well as the judicial interpretation of them are limited in number. Moreover, as they are not binding, both the implementation and interpretation of these regulations are uncertain in many areas. The interpretation of PRC laws may also be subject to policy changes reflecting domestic political changes, and new laws, changes to existing l aws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. The activities of our subsidiaries in China are subject to PRC regulations governing PRC companies. We face the risk that changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business. The PRC’s economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals. Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of the PRC. The PRC government has confirmed that economic development will follow the model of a market economy. Under this direction, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. A change in policies by the PRC government could adversely affect our interests by, among other factors: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof, confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sourc es of supplies, or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than two decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic and social life. Introduction of new laws or changes to existing laws by the PRC government may adversely affect our business. The PRC legal system is a codified legal system made up of written laws, regulations, circulars, administrative directives and internal guidelines. Unlike common law jurisdictions like the U.S., decided cases (which may be taken as reference) do not form part of the legal structure of the PRC and thus have no binding effect. Furthermore, in line with its transformation from a centrally-planned economy to a more free market-oriented economy, the PRC government is still in the process of developing a comprehensive set of laws and regulations. As the legal system in the PRC is still evolving, laws and regulations or the interpretation of the same may be subject to further changes. For example, the PRC government may impose restrictions on the amount of tariff that may be payable by municipal governments to waste water treatment service providers like us. Also, more stringent environmental regulations may also affect our ability to comply with, or our costs to comply with, such regulations. Such changes, if implemented, may adversely affect our business operations and may reduce our profitability. 8 The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be appli ed retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. We are a holding company. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC and all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The mining industry in the PRC is relatively new and growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our services. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Such an austere policy can lead to a slowing of economic growth. In October 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our services and recycled products. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our subsidiaries in China. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely primarily on dividend payments from our subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in C hina incur debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, 9 which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our Common Shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 11.9% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar up to December 31, 2007. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Recent PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents, have undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. Recent regulations promulgated by the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undergone a number of changes which may increase the administrative burden we face. The failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In 2005, SAFE promulgated regulations in the form of public notices, which require registrations with, and approval from, SAFE on direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC resident individuals. The SAFE regulations require that if an offshore company directly or indirectly formed by or controlled by PRC resident individuals, known as “SPC,” intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the SAFE. Without registration, the PRC entity cannot remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. 10 Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and all of our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on U.S. Federal Securities Laws against us and our officers and directors or to enforce a judgment of a United States court against us or our officers and directors in the PRC. During 2004, we became a British Virgin Islands company and our officers and directors are non-residents of the United States, our assets are located in the PRC and our operations are conducted in the PRC. Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of process on such persons in the United States, and it may be difficult to enforce any judgments rendered against us or them. Moreover, there is doubt whether courts in the British Virgin Islands or the PRC would enforce (a) judgments of United States courts against us, or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the Unites States or any state, or (b) in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands or the PRC, liabilities against us or any non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Our status as a “foreign private issuer” results in less information being available about us than about domestic reporting companies. We are foreign private issuer and are not required to file as much information about us as United States issuers are required to file. In this regard we are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K; we are exempt from the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures; the SEC proxy statement and information statement rules do not apply; and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are not required to file reports detailing their beneficial ownership of our shares. There is generally greater information available about United States issuers than about foreign private issuers such as us, and the lack of information about us makes it more difficult to make investment decisions about us. As a “foreign private issuer” we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with, some of which are designed to provide information to and protect investors. Our Common Shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers such as China Natural Resources, we have determined not to comply with the following Nasdaq rules: · a majority of our board of directors are not independent as defined by Nasdaq rules; · our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; · the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present in the deliberations concerning his compensation; · related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors; · we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party acquisitions or other acquisitions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person; · we are not required to hold an in-person annual meeting to elect directors and transact other business customarily conducted at an annual meeting; and · we are not required to participate in an electronic link with a specified registered depository in connection with any direct registration program that we may establish in the future. We may in the future determine to voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions. 11 Risks Related to our Common Stock There are a limited number of our Common Shares in the public float and trading in our shares is not active; therefore, our Common Shares tend to experience price volatility. There are currently approximately 7,255,000 of our Common Shares in the public float and, in general, there has not been an active trading market for our shares. Our shares tend to trade along with other shares of public companies whose operations are based in the People’s Republic of China. These shares tend to exhibit periods of extreme volatility and price fluctuations, even when there are no events peculiar to the Company that appear to warrant price changes. We cannot assure you that price volatility will not continue in the future or, as a result thereof, that market prices will reflect actual values of our company. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The share price could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative new or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be in the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Our Chief Executive Officer and his affiliates control us through their stock ownership and their interests may differ from other shareholders. Li Feilie, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 67% of our outstanding Common Shares, and as a result, Mr. Li is and will continue to be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporation transactions such as business combinations. Mr. Li’s interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Additional information relating to the beneficial ownership of our securities is contained elsewhere in this report under “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.” We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and there are restrictions on the conversion of local currency. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future as we intend to reinvest earnings from operations, if any, back into our operations. In addition, our holding company structure creates restrictions on our payment of dividends. The payment of dividends is also subject to numerous restrictions imposed under PRC law, including restrictions on the conversion of local currency into United States dollars and other currencies. The rights of our shareholders are subject to British Virgin Islands law, the provisions of which may not be as favorable to shareholders as US law. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a United States corporation. In this regard, our directors are permitted to take action that, under the laws of most states of the United States, require shareholder approval. These actions include authorizing reorganizations, asset sales (of less than 50% of our total assets) and amendments to our Memorandum and Articles of Association (that do not vary the rights of shareholders). The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under our articles of association and the existence of indemnification of our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of association contains provisions which eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to us and to our stockholders to the maximum extent permitted under the corporate laws of the British Virgin Islands. We may provide contractual indemnification obligations under agreements with our directors, officers and employees. These indemnification obligations could result in our incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors, officers and employees, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage us from bringing a lawsuit against directors, officers and employees for breach of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative 12 litigation by our shareholders against our directors, officers and employees even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit us Company and our shareholders. 