D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Metal Mining Operations We depend on our ability to obtain mining rights in order to sustain operations; and various factors impact on our retention of mining rights and the continued availability of minerals which to mine. We may be unable to successfully compete for mineral rights with companies having greater financial resources than we have. We currently conduct mining operations at one mine – Yangchong Mine - and the life of probable iron ore reserves is coming to an end. We estimate that probable iron reserves at the Yangchong Mine will be depleted during 2016. Further, we are subject to the jurisdiction of local and provincial governmental authorities that have suspended operations of mines, including mines previously operated by the Company, in furtherance of environmental initiatives by governmental authorites that have led to the designation of certain mines as exploration restricted areas. For example, prior to November 2013, we conducted exploration and mining operations at four non-ferrous mines located in the PRC, and we submitted our application to renew the exploration rights for three of these mines on their expiry. In November 2013, the Fanchang County Bureau of Land and Resources redesignated the Sichong Mine, the Baiguochong Mine and the Luojiachong Mine as exploration restricted areas. As a result, the Company’s exploration rights at these mines were not renewed and further exploration activities at these mines have ceased. We are dependent on acquiring mining rights in order to generate revenues and the non-renewal of our exploration rights at these mines limits our mining operations unless and until we are able to secure mining rights at additional mines. For the foregoing and other reasons, many of which are outside of our control, mining permits are difficult to obtain and retain, mines have limited lives and the number of mines at which mining can be conducted is limited. As a result, we seek to expand mineral reserves through the acquisition of additional mining rights. However, as there is a limited supply of desirable mineral deposits in the PRC, we face strong competition for mining rights from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we have. We may not be able to acquire attractive mineral rights on acceptable terms and, even if we are able to do so, we may be unable to retain the minimg rights. If we are unable to identify, acquire and retain additional mining rights, we may be required to cease operations. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditure requirements our growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to generate increased revenue from our existing operations and to raise capital from outside sources. We believe that in order to continue to capture additional market share and generate additional revenue, we will be required to raise additional capital to fund the acquisition of additional mines and mining rights. In the future we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial position, competitive position, growth and profitability. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including: · our financial condition and results of operations; · the condition of the PRC economy and the mining industry in the PRC; and · general conditions in relevant financial markets in the United States, the PRC and elsewhere in the world. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. We may face challenges in identifying attractive mining sites, additional mining rights and/ or complementary mining businesses, acquiring those rights, sites and/ or businesses, integrating their activities with ours and managing them profitably. Such eventualities will increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy such increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause administrative inefficiencies. In addition, the minable ore at Yangchong Mine will likely be depleted during 2016. At this time, we have no operating assets other than Yangchong Mine. Management is in the process of seeking additional mining licenses, as well as exploring new businesses opportunities, that will enable us to sustain operations following depletion of minable ore at Yangchong Mine. However, to date we have not identified new mining licenses or new business opportunities for acquisition. If we are unable to identify and acquire additional mines or new business opportunities, we may be required to cease operations. 4 We are subject to numerous risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our mining operations are subject to a number of risks and hazards including: · environmental hazards; · industrial accidents; · unusual or unexpected geologic formations; · explosive rock failures; and · flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in: · damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities; · personnel injury or death; · environmental damage; · delays in mining; · monetary losses; and · legal liability. We emphasize environmental protection in our operations and related activities, and a significant financial commitment has been made towards the construction of environmental protection facilities and the establishment of a sound environmental protection management and monitoring system. While we believe that our operating subsidiaries are currently in compliance with applicable environmental regulations of the PRC government, any changes to these regulations may increase operating costs and may adversely affect our results of operations. During the course of mining activities, we use dangerous materials. Although we have established stringent rules relating to the storage, handling and use of such dangerous materials, there is no assurance that accidents will not occur. Should we be held liable for any such accident, we may be subject to penalties, and possible criminal proceedings may be brought against our employees. Our metallic ore is subject to government regulations on the State, provincial and county levels and if we are unable to comply with regulations for any reason, our operations may be disrupted, we may become subject to fines and other sanctions and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our metallic ore mining operations are subject to government regulations on the State, provincial and county levels. These regulations relate to, among other things: · Environmental concerns; · Safety concerns; and · Licensing, permitting, taxes and fees. The State Administration for Environmental Protection is responsible for overall supervision and control of environmental protection in China. It formulates national standards for discharging waste materials and environmental protection and monitors the PRC environmental protection system. Environmental protection bureaus at the county level and above are responsible for environmental protection within their respective areas of jurisdiction. Compliance with State, provincial and county environmental regulations can be costly and disrupt operations; and failure to comply could subject us to fines, penalties and operational suspensions. Because all of the underlying land on which our mines are situated are owned by the State, our mining rights are subject to licensure, license renewal, coal resource taxes and other fees. The licensing and renewal process is subject to a great deal of discretion, particular on the local level, and there is no assurance that our licenses and permits, once granted, will be renewed upon expiry. In addition, coal resource taxes are generally imposed based upon the amount of ore extracted from our mines, and these taxes can be significant. State and local laws regulating work safety conditions have also been adopted. Compliance with these regulations can be expensive and until compliance is achieved, our mining operations will be delayed or suspended. In addition, it is common for provincial governments to suspend the operations of local mines to investigate mining accidents and to order remedial action to be taken. Production suspensions disrupt our mining operations, delay our receipt of revenues from the suspended operations and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 5 Our earnings and, therefore, our profitability, are affected by metals price volatility. The majority of our revenue is currently derived from the sale of iron, and as a result, our earnings are directly related to the prevailing prices of iron ore. At present, the price of iron in the PRC, while generally in line with those in the international markets, is relatively low. However, there are many factors influencing the price of metals including expectations for inflation; global and regional demand and production; political and economic conditions; and production costs in major producing regions. These factors are beyond our control and are impossible for us to predict. Changes in the prices of metals may adversely affect our operating results. We do not have any formal hedging policies to manage possible price fluctuations. As a result of the current low selling price for iron, we did not sell a substantial portion of our iron ore production for 2014 but rather, elected to retain inventories of iron ore pending an improvement in the sales price. Any similar determination made in 2015 may adversely affect the results of our operations. Our estimates of “probable” reserves are based upon various assumptions, and if our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, or if minerals are depleted from our mine(s) prior to termination of our mineral rights, our revenues, profitability and the market price for our shares may be adversely affected. The mines in which we have acquired mineral rights are the subject of geological surveys performed by licensed valuers in the PRC in conformity with procedures and protocols in the PRC. While these procedures and protocols are different from the procedures and protocols generally recognized in the United States, they are, with respect to certain of our mining properties, sufficient to support the existence of “probable” reserves. However, reserve estimation is an interpretive process based upon available data and various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, and the economic value of ore reserves may be adversely affected by price fluctuations in the metal market, reduced recovery rates or a rise in production costs as a result of inflation or other technical problems arising in the course of extraction. In addition, if the assumptions upon which our estimates of “probable” reserves are based prove to be inaccurate, there may not be sufficient mineral deposits at our properties to allow us to extract minerals at current levels for the duration of our mining rights. If we are unable to extract minerals at the current rate and for the full duration of our mineral rights, our revenues, profitability and, possibly, the market price for our shares may suffer. We rely on sub-contractors to perform mineral extraction and we have little control over their operations. We sub-contract the non-ferrous ore extraction to third parties. To a large extent, our operations are affected by the performance of these subcontractors, whose activities are substantially outside of our control. If the contractors fail to achieve monthly extraction volumes, or the contractors otherwise fail to perform their obligations to us, the agreement may be terminated by us; however, termination of the relationship would cause delays in our mineral production, require that we identify and engage other third-party contractors, and otherwise adversely affect our operating results. We produced no zinc in 2013 and 2014 due to the inferior quality of zinc at current mining zones and there is no assurance if and when zinc production will continue. We produced no zinc in 2013 and 2014 due to the inferior quality of zinc at current mining zones. For the year ended December 31, 2012, zinc production accounted for revenues of CNY2.37 million (US$0.38 million). At this time we do not know if and when zinc production will recommence or may be recoverable from further mining zones. Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition We have incurred losses from operations for each of the preceding three fiscal years and there is no assurance that we will generate profits in the future. For the three years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, we incurred operating losses from continuing operations of CNY16.38 million (US$2.64 million) and CNY2.88 million (US$0.46 million) and CNY27.38 million (US$4.41 million), respectively. Our operating losses are attributable, in part, to depressed prices for ore that we mine. Our profitability is dependent upon many factors, including our ability to fund our operating expenses, mine ore, and sell our production output to third parties. There is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to achieve profitability. 6 Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control could have material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of our shares. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”), adopted rules requiring most public companies to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, under certain circumstances, an independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014 was effective. However, we cannot assure you our management will not identify material weaknesses in the future during the Section 404(a) process or our independent public registered accounting firm will not identify material weaknesses during the Section 404(b) process if it was performed in the current year or in the future or for other reasons. In addition, because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or should we be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements due to error or fraud on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations and negatively impact the market price of our shares, and harm our reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur considerable costs and to use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by amortization policies applicable to mining rights. Mining rights are amortized based on actual units of production over estimated proven and probable reserves of the mines, subject to impairment. We review the production plans and the reserve levels of our mines periodically. Accordingly, any material change in mining production or modification of reserve levels may have a negative impact on our operating results. We face uncertainties with respect to the significant decrease in our assets/ liabilities. We have discontinued our coal segment and we are currently dependent upon the success of one line of business – mining of zinc, and, in the past, iron and other non-ferrous metal. While this business generates operating revenues, those revenues are not sufficient to offset expenses, resulting in continued losses from operations. Unless we are able to expand our mineral reserves through acquisition of additional mining rights, we will likely continue to incur losses. Risks Relating to PRC Operations Investors should consider economic, legal and political factors applicable to investments in the PRC prior to investing in our company. Since 1979, the PRC government has been making efforts to promote reforms of its economic system. These reforms have brought about marked economic growth and social progress, and the economy of China has shifted from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. Our PRC subsidiaries have also benefited from the economic reforms implemented by the PRC government and the economic policies and measures. However, economic, legal and social policies in the PRC are not similar to those of Western governments and revisions or amendments may be made to these policies and measures from time to time, and we are not in a position to predict whether any change in the political, economic or social conditions may adversely affect our operating results, and how those changes may impact on us. The PRC legal system is a statutory law system. Unlike the common law system, decided legal cases have little significance for guidance, and rulings by the court can only be used as reference with little value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC government has established a commercial law system, and significant progress has been made in promulgating laws and regulations relating to economic affairs. The PRC government is still in the process of developing a comprehensive set of laws and regulations. Examples are the organization of companies and their regulation, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, these regulations are relatively new and the availability of public cases as well as the judicial interpretation of them is limited in number. Moreover, as they are not binding, both the implementation and interpretation of these regulations are uncertain in many areas. Also, more stringent environmental regulations may also affect our ability to comply with, or our costs to comply with, such regulations. Such changes, if implemented, may adversely affect our business operations and may reduce our profitability. 7 The interpretation of PRC laws may also be subject to policy changes reflecting domestic political changes, and new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. The activities of our subsidiaries in China are subject to PRC regulations governing PRC companies. We face the risk that changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business. The PRC’s economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals. Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of the PRC. During this transition, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. A change in policies by the PRC government could adversely affect our interests by, among other factors: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof, confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies, or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than three decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic and social life. PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign-funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. We are a holding company. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC, and all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, more recently the trend is less certain and we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The mining industry in the PRC is relatively new and growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credit, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on bank lending. Such an austere policy can lead to a slowing of economic growth, and recent statistics have, indeed, suggested that China’s high annual economic growth will slow down. According to China National Bureau of Statistics released data, China's consumer price index (CPI) remained stable for 2014, rising 2.0 percent year on year — well below the government's 3.5 percent target. As CPI is the main gauge of inflation, the lower than targeted CPI increase reflects that inflation in China remains largely in check. 8 Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and do not have any assets other than our investments in our subsidiaries in China. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely primarily on dividend payments from our subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits as certain reserve funds according to PRC accounting standards and regulations. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of CNY into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt in the future, the debt covenants may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to receive dividend from the operating companies due to contractual or other limitations on the payment of dividends, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common shares. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect payment of our obligations and the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. See Item 10.D. for further details of exchange controls in the PRC. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. Conversely, if we convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars, should we determine to pay dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could affect the amount of U.S. dollars we convert. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations resulting in a lower income, a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these U.S. assets. In 2014, the annual cumulative depreciation of the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar was 2.42%. It was the first time appeared devaluation trend since financial crisis which showed twists and turns. During first half of 2014, the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar fell from about 6.05 to about 6.26. From early June 2014 to the end of November, the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar rose from about 6.26 to about 6.14. And from early December 2014 to the end of January 2015, the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar fell again from about 6.14 to about 6.26. 9 Recent PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents, have undergone continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In 2005, the SAFE promulgated regulations in the form of public notices, which require registrations with, and approval from, the SAFE on direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC resident individuals. The SAFE regulations require that if an offshore company directly or indirectly formed by or controlled by PRC resident individuals, known as “SPC,” intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the SAFE. The regulation also requires PRC resident individuals to repatriate all dividends of the SPC. Without registration with the SAFE by PRC resident individuals, the PRC entity may not be able to remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. Violation of the regulation may be deemed an evasion of foreign exchange rules and implicated PRC resident individuals may be liable for a penalty. However, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations, including the regulations established by the SAFE. To date, no registration has been filed with the SAFE. Even if it is determined that registration with the SAFE is required, management believes that applicable filings with the SAFE can be made at any time, and management does not foresee significant difficulties in obtaining the SAFE’s approval should it be required. The China-based affiliate of our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because the China-based affiliate of our auditor performs audit work in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, the China-based affiliate of our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. On May 24, 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”) and the Ministry of Finance of the PRC, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC, or the Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of the audit procedures of the China-based affiliate of our auditor or quality control procedure. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against certain PRC-based accounting firms, including the China-based affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms in China, including the China-based affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that they had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of these firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. On February 12, 2014, four of these PRC-based accounting firms appealed the administrative decision to the SEC. In February 2015, each of the four PRC-based accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC. The settlement requires the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via the CSRC. If the firms do not follow these procedures, the SEC could impose penalties such as suspensions, or it could restart the administrative proceedings. 10 In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our stock may be adversely affected. If the China-based affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to our delisting from the NASDAQ or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our stock in the United States. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. The Ministry of Commerce published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The Ministry of Commerce is currently soliciting comments on this draft and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of “actual control” in determining whether a company should be treated as a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. According to the definition set forth in the draft Foreign Investment Law, FIEs refer to enterprises established in China pursuant to PRC law that are solely or partially invested by foreign investors. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China (without direct foreign equity ownership) but “controlled” by foreign investors, through contract or trust for example, will be treated as FIEs. Once an entity falls within the definition of FIE, it may be subject to foreign investment “restrictions” or “prohibitions” set forth in a “negative list” to be separately issued by the State Council later. If an FIE proposes to conduct business in an industry subject to foreign investment “restrictions” in the “negative list,” the FIE must go through a market entry clearance by the Ministry of Commerce before being established. If an FIE proposes to conduct business in an industry subject to foreign investment “prohibitions” in the “negative list,” it must not engage in the business. However, an FIE, during the market entry clearance process, may apply in writing to be treated as a PRC domestic enterprise if its foreign investor(s) is/are ultimately “controlled” by PRC government authorities and its affiliates and/or PRC citizens. In this connection, “control” is broadly defined in the draft law to cover the following summarized categories: (i) holding 50% of more of the voting rights of the subject entity; (ii) holding less than 50% of the voting rights of the subject entity but having the power to secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to exert material influence on the board, the shareholders’ meeting or other equivalent decision making bodies; or (iii) having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity’s operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. 11 The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required at each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. Risks Relating to Foreign Private Issuer Status Because our assets are located outside of the United States and all of our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on U.S. Federal Securities Laws against us and our officers and directors or to enforce a judgment of a United States court against us or our officers and directors in the PRC. We are a British Virgin Islands company, and our officers and directors are non-residents of the United States, our assets are located in the PRC and our operations are conducted in the PRC. Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of process on such persons in the United States, and it may be difficult to enforce any judgments rendered against us or them. Moreover, there is doubt whether courts in the British Virgin Islands or the PRC would enforce (a) judgments of United States courts against us, or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the Unites States or any state, or (b) in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands or the PRC, liabilities against us or any non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Our status as a “foreign private issuer” results in less information being available about us than about domestic reporting companies. We are foreign private issuer and are not required to file as much information about us as domestic issuers are required to file. In this regard: · we are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our annual reports on Form 20-F are subject to disclosure requirement that differ from Form 10-K; · we are exempt from the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures; · the SEC proxy statement and information statement rules do not apply to us; and · our officers, directors and principal shareholders are not required to file reports detailing their beneficial ownership of our shares. Since there is generally greater information available about domestic issuers than about foreign private issuers such as us, the information we are not required to provide may make it more difficult to make investment decisions about us. Our status as a “foreign private issuer” allows us to adopt IFRS accounting principles, which are different than accounting principles under U.S. GAAP. We have adopted and presented our financial statements in accordance with IFRS accounting principles. IFRS is an internationally recognized body of accounting principles that are used by many companies outside of the United States to prepare their financial statements; and the SEC recently permitted foreign private issuers such as the Company to prepare and file their financial statements in accordance with IFRS rather than U.S GAAP. IFRS accounting principles are different from those of U.S. GAAP, and SEC rules do not require us to provide a reconciliation of IFRS accounting principles to those of U.S GAAP. Accordingly, we suggest that readers of our financial statements familiarize themselves with the provisions of IFRS accounting principles in order to better understand the differences between these two sets of principles. 12 Filers of financial statements under IFRS are not currently subject to the SEC’s XBRL requirements which may provide less information to investors than is provided by filers utilizing XBRL. The SEC requires most reporting companies to provide financial statements in their periodic reports that include “XBRL tagging” – cross references that provide the reader with a greater understanding of the components of line items contained in financial statements. However, the SEC has not yet developed taxonomy to enable filers of IFRS financial statements, such as the Company, to include XBRL tagging in their financial statements. Until such time as the SEC develops taxonomy to allow IFRS filers to include XBRL tagging, IFRS filers will be relieved of the obligation to provide XBRL tagging with their financial statements, and readers will not have the benefit of XBRL tagging when reviewing our financial statements. As a “foreign private issuer” we are not subject to certain requirements that other NASDAQ listed issuers are required to comply with, some of which are designed to provide information to and protect investors. Our common shares are currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by NASDAQ applicable to listed companies. As permitted under NASDAQ rules applicable to foreign private issuers such as China Natural Resources, we have determined to adhere to the exemptions provided by the relevant NASDAQ rules, and as a result: · a majority of the members on our Board of Directors are not independent as defined by NASDAQ rules; · our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; · while executive compensation is recommended by our Compensation Committee which is comprised of independent directors, the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the Board of Directors, and our CEO may be present in the deliberations concerning his compensation; · related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the Board of Directors; · we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party acquisitions or other acquisitions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person; and · we are not required to hold an in-person annual meeting to elect directors and transact other business customarily conducted at an annual meeting. Due to an exemption from NASDAQ rules applicable to “foreign private issuers,” our related party transactions may not receive the type of independent review process that other NASDAQ-listed companies receive, and the terms of these transactions may not be as favorable as could be obtained from unrelated parties. We have historically engaged in a substantial number of transactions with related parties in the ordinary course of business, predominantly with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and/or companies that he owns or controls. These transactions are described in greater detail elsewhere in this Annual Report. In general, NASDAQ rules require that related party transactions be reviewed by an audit committee or other committee comprised of independent directors. However, under NASDAQ rules applicable to foreign private issuers such as our company, we are exempt from certain NASDAQ requirements, including the requirement applicable to independent director review of related party transactions. This exemption is available to us because the laws of the British Virgin Islands, our home jurisdiction, do not mandate independent review of related party transactions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, non-recurring related party transactions (i.e., related party transactions that are not in the ordinary course of business) are submitted for approval by our Board of Directors, following disclosure of the related party’s interest in the transaction, and, in all cases, board approval has historically included the unanimous approval of our independent directors. In addition, our annual audited financial statements, including the related party transactions reported therein, are approved by our audit committee, which is comprised solely of independent directors. However, except to the limited extent described above, these transactions are not individually reviewed or approved solely by independent directors, and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is often present during the approval process and is permitted to cast a vote as a board member. While management believes that related party transactions are on terms at least as favorable to the Company as could be obtained from unrelated parties, there is no assurance that such is the case, or that shareholders would not be better protected if we were not exempt from, or we chose to voluntarily comply with, the NASDAQ rule. 13 Risks Related to our Common Shares There are a limited number of our common shares in the public float and trading in our shares is not active; therefore, our common shares tend to experience price volatility. There are currently approximately 9,448,397 of our common shares in the public float and, in general, there has not been an active trading market for our shares. Our shares tend to trade along with other shares of public companies whose operations are based in the People’s Republic of China, and, at times, in tandem with other natural resource companies. These shares tend to exhibit periods of extreme volatility and price fluctuations, even when there are no events peculiar to the Company that appear to warrant price changes. We cannot assure you that price volatility will not continue in the future or, as a result thereof, that market prices will reflect actual values of our company. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The share price could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative new or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be in the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Our Chief Executive Officer and his affiliates control us through their stock ownership; and their interests may differ from other shareholders. Li Feilie, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 59% of our outstanding common shares, and as a result, Mr. Li is and will continue to be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions such as business combinations. Mr. Li’s interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Additional information relating to the beneficial ownership of our securities is contained elsewhere in this Annual Report under “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.” The rights of our shareholders are governed by British Virgin Islands law, the provisions of which may not be as favorable to shareholders as under U.S. law. Our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval, including an amendment of our Memorandum of Association or Articles of Association (unless such amendment varies the rights attached to shares) or an increase or reduction in our authorized capital, which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States. In addition, the directors of a British Virgin Islands company, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may, among other things, implement a reorganization, certain mergers or consolidations with a subsidiary, the sale, transfer, exchange or disposition of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the company, or any combination (provided the assets do not represent more than 50% of the total assets of the company and the sale is not outside of the usual or ordinary course of the company’s business), if they determine it is in the best interests of the company. Our ability to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over then current market prices. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under our articles of association and the existence of indemnification of our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of association contains provisions which eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to us and to our stockholders to the maximum extent permitted under the corporate laws of the British Virgin Islands. We may provide contractual indemnification obligations under agreements with our directors, officers and employees. These indemnification obligations could result in our incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors, officers and employees, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage us from bringing a lawsuit against directors, officers and employees for breach of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors, officers and employees even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit us Company and our shareholders. 14 Risks Related to the Spin-Off We face uncertainties with respect to the applicability of PRC withholding tax on the Distribution. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises (‘‘SAT Circular 698’’) issued by the State Administration of Taxation (‘‘SAT’’) on December 10, 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, if a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its indirect equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by disposing of its equity interests in an overseas holding company (‘‘Indirect Transfer’’), and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that has an effective tax rate of less than 12.5% or does not tax foreign income of its residents, the non-PRC resident enterprise, as the transferor, is required to report the Indirect Transfer to the relevant PRC tax authorities. SAT issued an announcement in February 2015, i.e., the Notice of SAT on Several Issues Concerning the CIT on the Indirect Transfers of Properties by PRC Non-Residents or “Announcement 7,” which stipulates in greater detail how to evaluate the “reasonable commercial substance.” Using a ‘‘substance over form’’ principle, the PRC tax authorities may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of avoiding PRC tax, in which case the gains derived from such ‘‘Indirect Transfer’’ may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 698 also provides that, if a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant PRC tax authorities have the authority to make reasonable adjustments to the taxable income of the transaction. There is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Circular 698 and Announcement 7. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with the PRC. As a result, there is a risk that the PRC tax authorities would regard the Distribution as an “Indirect Transfer” by CHNR of our PRC subsidiaries to CHNR’s shareholders subject to SAT Circular 698. If SAT Circular 698 were determined to be applicable to the Distribution by the PRC tax authorities, CHNR could be required to withhold taxes at a rate of up to 10% on any gains derived from the Distribution, which may be deemed as the difference between the fair value of our ordinary shares at the time of the Distribution and CHNR’s tax basis in our ordinary shares. It is not possible to foresee all risks that may affect us. Moreover, we cannot predict whether we will successfully effectuate our current business plan. Each prospective purchaser is encouraged to carefully analyze the risks and merits of an investment in the shares and should take into consideration when making such analysis, among others, the Risk Factors discussed above. 