ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following are important risks which could adversely affect our future results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not deem material may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks we describe below occur, or if any unforeseen risk develops, our operating results may suffer, our financial condition may deteriorate, the trading price of our common stock may decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment in us. Risks Related to Our Operations We are highly dependent on Delta, United and Midwest. If any of our code-share agreements are terminated, we would be significantly impacted and likely would not have an immediate source of revenue or earnings to offset such loss. A termination of any of these agreements would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating revenues and net income unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements for the utilization of the affected aircraft by other code-share partners, or, alternatively, obtain the airport facilities and gates and make the other arrangements necessary to fly as an independent airline. We may not be able to enter into substitute code-share arrangements, and any such arrangements we might secure may not be as favorable to us as our current agreements. Operating our airline independent from major partners would be a significant departure from our business plan, would likely be very difficult and may require significant time and resources, which may not be available to us at that point. The current terms of the SkyWest, SkyWest Airlines and ASA Delta Connection Agreements are subject to certain early termination provisions. Delta's termination rights include cross-termination rights (meaning that a breach by SkyWest Airlines or ASA of its Delta Connection Agreement could, under certain circumstances, permit Delta to terminate any or all of the Delta Connection Agreements), the right to terminate each of the agreements upon the occurrence of certain force majeure events (including certain labor-related events) that prevent SkyWest Airlines or ASA from performance for certain periods and the right to terminate each of the agreements if SkyWest Airlines or ASA, as applicable, fails to maintain competitive base rate costs, subject to certain rights of SkyWest Airlines to take corrective action to reimburse Delta for lost revenues. The current term of the SkyWest Airlines' United Express Agreement is subject to certain early termination provisions and subsequent renewals. United may terminate the United Express Agreement due to an uncured breach by SkyWest Airlines of certain operational and performance provisions, including measures and standards related to flight completions, baggage handling and on-time arrivals. The current term of the SkyWest Airlines' Midwest Services Agreement is subject to certain early termination provisions and subsequent renewals. Midwest may terminate the Midwest Services Agreement due to an uncured breach by SkyWest Airlines of certain operational and performance provisions, including measures and standards related to customer complaints factor, the care check factor or the customer experience pulse factor. We currently use Delta's, United's and Midwest's systems, facilities and services to support a significant portion of our operations, including airport and terminal facilities and operations, 16 information technology support, ticketing and reservations, scheduling, dispatching, fuel purchasing and ground handling services. If Delta, United or Midwest were to cease any of these operations or no longer provide these services to us, due to termination of one of our code-share agreements, a strike or other labor interruption by Delta, United or Midwest personnel or for any other reason, we may not be able to replace these services on terms and conditions as favorable as those we currently receive, or at all. Since our revenues and operating profits are dependent on our level of flight operations, we could then be forced to significantly reduce our operations. Furthermore, upon certain terminations of our code-share agreements, Delta, United and Midwest could require us to sell or assign to them facilities and inventories, including maintenance facilities, we use in connection with the code-share services we provide. As a result, in order to offer airline service after termination of any of our code-share agreements, we may have to replace these airport facilities, assets and services. We may be unable to arrange such replacements on satisfactory terms, or at all. We may be negatively impacted by the troubled financial condition and restructurings of Delta and United. A substantial percentage of our total revenues is attributable to our code-share agreements with Delta and United, which both recently emerged from bankruptcy proceedings. The U.S. Bankruptcy Courts charged with administration of the Delta and United bankruptcy cases have entered final orders approving the assumption of our code-share agreements. Notwithstanding those approvals, these bankruptcies and restructurings present considerable continuing risks and uncertainties for our code-share agreements and, consequently, for our operations. Although a plan of reorganization has been confirmed in each of the United and Delta bankruptcy proceedings, there is no assurance that either United or Delta will ultimately succeed in its reorganization efforts or will remain a going concern over the long term. The increase in fuel prices may negatively impact both Delta's and United's confirmed reorganization plans. Other aspects of the Delta and United bankruptcies and reorganizations pose additional risks to our code-share agreements. There is no assurance that Delta or United will be able to operate successfully under the terms of its confirmed plan. In light of the importance of our code-share agreements with Delta and United to our business, the termination of these agreements could jeopardize our operations. Such events could leave us unable to operate much of our current aircraft fleet and the additional aircraft we are obligated to purchase, Which would likely result, in a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Even though Delta and United have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, their respective financial positions will continue to pose risks for our operations. Serial bankruptcies are not unprecedented in the commercial airline industry, and Delta and/or United could file for bankruptcy again after emergence from Chapter 11, in which case our code-share agreements could be subject to termination under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Regardless of whether subsequent bankruptcy filings prove to be necessary, Delta and United have required, and will likely continue to require, our participation in efforts to reduce costs and improve their respective financial positions. These efforts could result in lower utilization rates of our aircraft, lower departure rates on the contract flying portion of our business, and more volatile operating margins. We believe that any of these developments could have a negative effect on many aspects of our operations and financial performance. The amounts we receive under our code-share agreements may be less than the actual amounts of the corresponding costs we incur. Under our code-share agreements with Delta, United and Midwest, we are compensated for certain costs we incur in providing services. With respect to costs that are defined as "pass-through" 17 costs, our code-share partner is obligated to pay to us the actual amount of the cost (and, with respect to the ASA Delta Connection Agreement, a pre-determined rate of return based upon the actual cost we incur). With respect to other costs, our code-share partner is obligated to pay to us amounts based, in part, on pre-determined rates for certain costs. During the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 54% of our costs were pass-through costs and approximately 46% of our costs were reimbursable at pre-determined rates. These pre-determined rates may not be based on the actual expenses we incur in delivering the associated services. If we incur expenses that are greater than the pre-determined reimbursement amounts payable by our code-share partners, our financial results will be negatively affected. SkyWest Airlines and ASA are engaged in litigation with Delta, which may negatively impact our financial results and our relationship with Delta During the quarter ended December 31, 2007, Delta notified SkyWest, SkyWest Airlines and ASA of a dispute under the SkyWest Airlines and ASA Delta Connection Agreements. The dispute relates to allocation of liability for certain irregular operations ("IROP") expenses that are paid by SkyWest Airlines and ASA to Delta Connection passengers under certain situations. As a result of the dispute, Delta withheld a combined total of approximately $25 million (pretax) from one of the weekly scheduled wire payments to SkyWest and ASA during December 2007. On February 1, 2008, SkyWest Airlines and ASA filed a lawsuit in Georgia state court disputing Delta's treatment of the matter. The position Delta has taken with respect to IROP expenses is inconsistent with the parties' treatment of those expenses under the SkyWest Airlines and ASA Delta Connection Agreements since their execution in September 2005. We have not recorded an allowance related to the dispute in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that the dispute will be resolved consistent with the position taken by SkyWest Airlines and ASA. If the dispute is not resolved consistent with the position taken by SkyWest Airlines and ASA our financial results would be negatively impacted. The litigation may have other negative effects on our relationship with Delta and our operations under the existing Delta Connection Agreements. We have a significant amount of contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had a total of approximately $1.9 billion in total long-term debt obligations. Substantially all of this long-term debt was incurred in connection with the acquisition of aircraft, engines and related spare parts including debt assumed in the ASA acquisition. We also have significant long-term lease obligations primarily relating to our aircraft fleet. These leases are classified as operating leases and therefore are not reflected as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2007, we had 287 aircraft under lease, with remaining terms ranging from one to 18 years. Future minimum lease payments due under all long-term operating leases were approximately $3.3 billion at December 31, 2007. At a 7.39% discount factor, the present value of these lease obligations was equal to approximately $2.1 billion at December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had commitments of approximately $557.8 million to purchase four CRJ900s, 18 CRJ700s, and four used CRJ200s and to sublease two CRJ700s. We expect to complete these deliveries by the first quarter of 2010. Our high level of fixed obligations could impact our ability to obtain additional financing to support additional expansion plans or divert cash flows from operations and expansion plans to service the fixed obligations. There are risks associated with our regional jet strategy, including potential oversupply and possible passenger dissatisfaction. Our selection of Bombardier Regional Jets as the primary aircraft for our existing operations and projected growth involves risks, including the possibility that there may be an oversupply of regional jets available for sale in the foreseeable future, due, in part, to the financial difficulties of regional and 18 major airlines, including Delta, United, Northwest, Comair, Mesa and ExpressJet. A large supply of regional jets may allow other carriers, or even new carriers, to acquire aircraft for unusually low acquisition costs, allowing them to compete more effectively in the industry, which may ultimately harm our operations and financial performance. Our regional jet strategy also presents the risk that passengers may find the Bombardier Regional Jets to be less attractive than other aircraft, including other regional jets. Recently, several other models of regional jets have been introduced by manufacturers other than Bombardier. If passengers develop a preference for other regional jet models, our results of operation and financial condition could be negatively impacted. We may be limited from expanding our flying within the Delta and United flight systems, and there are constraints on our ability to provide airline services to airlines other than Delta and United. Additional growth opportunities within the Delta and United flight systems are limited by various factors. Except as currently contemplated by our existing code-share agreements, we cannot assure that Delta or United will contract with us to fly any additional aircraft. We may not receive additional growth opportunities, or may agree to modifications to our code-share agreements that reduce certain benefits to us in order to obtain additional aircraft, or for other reasons. Furthermore, the troubled financial condition, bankruptcies and restructurings of Delta and United may reduce the growth of regional flying within their flight systems. Given the troubled nature of the airline industry, we believe that some of our competitors may be more inclined to accept reduced margins and less favorable contract terms in order to secure new or additional code-share operations. Even if we are offered growth opportunities by our major partners, those opportunities may involve economic terms or financing commitments that are unacceptable to us. Any one or more of these factors may reduce or eliminate our ability to expand our flight operations with our existing code-share partners. Additionally, even if Delta and/or United choose to expand our fleet on terms acceptable to us, they may be allowed at any time to subsequently reduce the number of aircraft covered by our code-share agreements. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the additional ground and maintenance facilities, including gates, and support equipment, to expand our operations. The failure to obtain these facilities and equipment would likely impede our efforts to implement our business strategy and could materially adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Delta, United and/or Midwest may be restricted in increasing their business with us, due to "scope" clauses in the current collective bargaining agreements with their pilots that restrict the number and size of regional jets that may be operated in their flight systems not flown by their pilots. Delta's scope limitations restrict its partners from operating aircraft with over 70 seats even if those aircraft are operated for an airline other than Delta. We cannot assure that these scope clauses will not become more restrictive in the future. Any additional limit on the number of regional jets we can fly for our code-share partners could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and the price of our common stock. Our business model depends on major airlines, including Delta, United and Midwest, electing to contract with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Some major airlines, including Delta, American and Alaska Airlines, own their own regional airlines or operate their own regional jets instead of entering into contracts with regional carriers. We have no guarantee that in the future our code-share partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Our partners are not prohibited from doing so under our code-share agreements. A decision by Delta, United or Midwest to phase out code-share relationships and instead acquire and operate their own regional jets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. 19 Additionally, our code-share agreements limit our ability to provide airline services to other airlines in certain major airport hubs of each of Delta and United. Under the SkyWest Airlines Delta Connection Agreement, our growth is contractually restricted in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Orlando and Salt Lake City. Under the ASA Delta Connection Agreement, our growth is restricted in Atlanta, Cincinnati, New York (John F. Kennedy International Airport), Orlando and Salt Lake City. Under SkyWest Airlines' United Express Agreement, growth is restricted in Chicago (O'Hare International Airport), Denver, San Francisco, Seattle/Tacoma and Washington D.C. (Dulles International Airport). Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under our code-share agreements would adversely impact our financial results. Our code-share agreements set forth minimum levels of flight operations which our major partners are required to utilize and we are required to provide. These minimum flight operating levels are intended to compensate us for our fixed costs attributable to our performance of our obligations under our respective code-share agreements. Historically, our major partners have utilized our flights operations at levels which exceed the minimum levels set forth in our code-share agreements. If the utilization of our aircraft declines below historical levels (including taking into account the stage length and frequency of our scheduled flights) our opportunity to receive a margin on the variable costs of flights that would have been flown if our aircraft were more fully utilized will be reduced. Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under our cod-share agreements would adversely impact our financial results. Increased labor costs, strikes, labor disputes and increased unionization of our workforces may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our business is labor intensive, requiring large numbers of pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and other personnel. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2007, our labor costs constituted approximately 23.0% of our total operating costs. Increases in our unionized labor costs could result in a material reduction in our earnings and affect our revenue under our code-share agreements. Any new collective bargaining agreements entered into by other regional carriers may also result in higher industry wages and increased pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Future agreements with unionized and non-unionized employees may be on terms that are not as attractive as our current agreements or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors. ASA's pilots, flight attendants and flight controllers are represented by unions, including: The Air Line Pilots Association, International, the Association of Flight AttendantsCNA and the Professional Airline Flight Control Association. Also, ASA's flight attendants are currently working under an open labor contract, and ASA has been in negotiations with respect to such contracts since 2003. The contract with ASA's flight controllers became amendable in April 2006, and ASA is currently engaged in negotiations with its flight controllers. Negotiations with unions representing ASA's employees could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. Moreover, we cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreement between ASA and its pilots became amendable September 15, 2002. During 2007, ASA reached a labor agreement with its pilots. The terms of the agreement were approved by the ASA pilots. The new agreement resulted in increased pay scales, as well as modifications to existing work rules. The overall financial impact of the new ASA labor agreement may result in increased labor costs and negatively impact our financial results. SkyWest Airlines' employees are not currently represented by any union; however, collective bargaining group organization efforts among those employees occur from time to time. We recognize 20 that such efforts will likely continue in the future and may ultimately result in some or all of SkyWest Airlines' employees being represented by one or more unions. Moreover, one or more unions representing ASA employees may seek a single carrier determination by the National Mediation Board, which could require SkyWest Airlines to recognize such union or unions as the certified bargaining representative of SkyWest Airlines' employees. One or more unions representing ASA employees may also assert that SkyWest Airlines' employees should be subject to ASA collective bargaining agreements. If SkyWest Airlines' employees were to unionize or be deemed to be represented by one or more unions, negotiations with unions representing SkyWest Airlines' employees could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. Moreover, we cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements. Agreements reached in collective bargaining may increase operating expenses and lower operating results and net income. If unionizing efforts among SkyWest Airlines' employees are successful, we may be subjected to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation. If we are unable to reach labor agreements with any current or future unionized work groups, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages, which may adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations and may even allow Delta, United or Midwest to terminate their respective code-share agreement. We may be unable to obtain all of the aircraft, engines, parts or related maintenance and support services we require, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. We rely on a limited number of aircraft types, and are dependent on Bombardier as the sole manufacturer of our regional jets. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 52.2% of our available seat miles were flown using CRJ200s, 35.8% of our available seat miles were flown using CRJ700s and 6.4% of our available seat miles were flown using CRJ900s. As of December 31, 2007, we had commitments of approximately $557.8 million to purchase four CRJ900s, 18 CRJ700s, four CRJ200s and sublease two CRJ700s. We expect to complete these deliveries by the first quarter of 2010. Additionally, we have obtained options to acquire another 22 regional jets that can be delivered in 70 to 90-seat configurations. Delivery dates for these aircraft remain subject to final determination as agreed upon by us and our major partners. Any significant disruption or delay in the expected delivery schedule of our fleet would adversely affect our business strategy and overall operations and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results or our financial condition. Certain of Bombardier's aerospace workers are represented by unions and have participated in at least one strike in recent history. Any future prolonged strike at Bombardier or delay in Bombardier's production schedule as a result of labor matters could disrupt the delivery of regional jets to us, which could adversely affect our planned fleet growth. We are also dependent on General Electric as the manufacturer of our aircraft engines. General Electric also provides parts, repair and overhaul services, and other types of support services on our engines. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected by the failure or inability of Bombardier or General Electric to provide sufficient parts or related maintenance and support services to us on a timely or economical basis, or the interruption of our flight operations as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for our aircraft or engines. In addition, the issuance of FAA directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Bombardier aircraft types we operate would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Maintenance costs will likely increase as the age of our regional jet fleet increases. Because the average age of our CRJ900s, CRJ700s and CRJ200s, as of December 31, 2007, was approximately 1.1, 3.3 and 6.2 years, respectively, our regional jet fleet requires less maintenance now than it will in the future. We have incurred relatively low maintenance expenses on our regional jet 21 fleet because most of the parts on our regional jet aircraft are under multi-year warranties and a limited number of heavy airframe checks and engine overhauls have occurred. Our maintenance costs will increase significantly, both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of our operating expenses, as our fleet ages and these warranties expire. Under our United Express Agreement and Midwest Services Agreement, specific amounts are included in the current rates for future maintenance on CRJ200 engines used in our United Express and Midwest Connect operations. The actual cost of maintenance on CRJ200 engines may vary from the estimated rates. If we incur problems with any of our third-party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may limit our ability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including fuel supply and delivery, aircraft maintenance, services and ground facilities, and expect to enter into additional similar agreements in the future. These agreements are subject to termination after notice. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of our automated or contract services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports, due to adverse weather or for any other reason, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We currently operate primarily through hubs in Atlanta, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Milwaukee, San Francisco, Salt Lake City, Chicago, Denver, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky and the Pacific Northwest. Nearly all of our flights will either originate or fly into one of these hubs. Our revenues depend primarily on our completion of flights and secondarily on service factors such as timeliness of departure and arrival. Any interruptions or disruptions could, therefore, severely and adversely affect us. Extreme weather can cause flight disruptions, and during periods of storms or adverse weather, fog, low temperatures, etc., our flights may be canceled or significantly delayed. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, in particular, caused severe disruption to air travel in the affected areas and adversely affected airlines operating in the region, including ASA. We operate a significant number of flights to and from airports with particular weather difficulties, including Atlanta, Salt Lake City, Chicago, Milwaukee and Denver. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs, due to adverse weather or otherwise, could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, operations and financial performance. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. A substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates. These are primarily based on the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars, or LIBOR. LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market. We have not hedged our interest rate exposure and, accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event, we may have difficulty making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Jerry C. Atkin, and our other key management and operating personnel. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. We do not maintain key-man insurance on any of our executive officers. 22 Risks Related to the Airline Industry We may be materially affected by uncertainties in the airline industry. The airline industry has experienced tremendous challenges in recent years and will likely remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Among other factors, the financial challenges faced by major carriers, including Delta, United and Northwest, the slowing U.S. economy and increased hostilities in Iraq, the Middle East and other regions have significantly affected, and are likely to continue to affect, the U.S. airline industry. These events have resulted in declines and shifts in passenger demand, increased insurance costs, increased government regulations and tightened credit markets, all of which have affected, and will continue to affect, the operations and financial condition of participants in the industry, including us, major carriers (including our major partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers. These industry developments raise substantial risks and uncertainties which will affect us, major carriers (including our major partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers in ways that we are unable to currently predict. The airline industry is highly competitive and has undergone a period of consolidation and transition leaving fewer potential code-share partners. The airline industry is highly competitive. We not only compete with other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as code-share partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low-cost carriers and major airlines on many of our routes. Low-cost carriers such as Southwest, JetBlue, US Airways, Frontier, and AirTran, among others, operate at many of our hubs, resulting in significant price competition. Additionally, a large number of other carriers operate at our hubs, creating intense competition. Certain of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter our markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Increased fare competition could adversely affect our operations and the price of our common stock. The airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. Recent examples include the merger between America West Airlines and US Airways in September 2005, and American Airlines' acquisition of the majority of Trans World Airlines' assets in 2001. Several of the major airlines are currently in discussions related to consolidation in the industry. Other developments include domestic and international code-share alliances between major carriers, such as the "SkyTeam Alliance," that includes Delta, Continental and Northwest, among others. Any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could limit the number of potential partners with whom we could enter into code-share relationships and materially adversely affect our relationship with our code-share partners. Terrorist activities or warnings have dramatically impacted the airline industry, and will likely continue to do so. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath have negatively impacted the airline industry in general, including our operations. The primary effects experienced by the airline industry include a substantial loss of passenger traffic and revenue. Although, to some degree, airline passenger traffic and revenue have recovered since the September 11th attacks, additional terrorist attacks could have a similar or even more pronounced effect. Even if additional terrorist attacks are not launched against the airline industry, there will be lasting consequences of the attacks, including increased security and insurance costs, increased concerns about future terrorist attacks, increased government regulation and airport delays due to heightened security. Additional terrorist attacks and the fear of such attacks could negatively impact the airline industry, and result in further decreased passenger traffic and yields, increased flight delays or cancellations associated with new government 23 mandates, as well as increased security, fuel and other costs. We cannot provide any assurance that these events will not harm the airline industry generally or our operations or financial condition in particular. Fuel costs have adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, the operations and financial performance of the airline industry. The price of aircraft fuel is unpredictable and increased significantly during much of 2007. Higher fuel prices may lead to higher airfares, which would tend to decrease the passenger load of our code-share partners. In the long run, such decreases will likely have an adverse effect on the number of flights such partner will ask us to provide and the revenues associated with such flights. Additionally, fuel shortages have been threatened. The future cost and availability of fuel to us cannot be predicted, and substantial fuel cost increases or the unavailability of adequate supplies of fuel may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During periods of increasing fuel costs, our operating margins have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected. We are subject to significant governmental regulation. All interstate air carriers, including SkyWest Airlines and ASA, are subject to regulation by the DOT, the FAA and other governmental agencies. Regulations promulgated by the DOT primarily relate to economic aspects of air service. The FAA requires operating, air worthiness and other certificates; approval of personnel who may engage in flight, maintenance or operation activities; record keeping procedures in accordance with FAA requirements; and FAA approval of flight training and retraining programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time-consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our aircraft for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as our aircraft, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our aircraft at any airport at which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The occurrence of an aviation accident would negatively impact our operations and financial condition. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could result in significant potential claims of injured passengers and others, as well as repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service. In the event of an accident, our liability insurance may not be adequate to offset our exposure to potential claims and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from the accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our operational and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that our operations are less safe or reliable than other airlines. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We can issue additional shares without shareholder approval. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the "Restated Articles"), authorize the issuance of up to 120,000,000 shares of common stock, all of which may be issued without any action or approval by our shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, we had 60,478,615 shares outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had equity-based incentive plans under which 3,600,448 shares 24 are reserved for issuance and an employee stock purchase plan under which 1,884,469 shares are reserved for issuance, both of which may dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders. Our Restated Articles also authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock with the rights and preferences, and at the price, which it determines. Any shares of preferred stock issued would likely be senior to shares of our common stock in various regards, including dividends, payments upon liquidation and voting. The value of our common stock could be negatively affected by the issuance of any shares of preferred stock. Distribution of dividends may decrease or cease. Historically, we have paid dividends in varying amounts on our common stock. The future payment and amount of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition and results of operations, loan covenants and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. There can be no assurance that we will continue our practice of paying dividends on our common stock or that we will have the financial resources to pay such dividends. Provisions of our charter documents and code-share agreements may affect the ability or desire of others to gain control of our company. Our ability to issue preferred and common shares without shareholder approval may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock, even in circumstances where such a change in control would be viewed as desirable by most investors. The provisions of the Utah Control Shares Acquisitions Act may also discourage the acquisition of a significant interest in or control of our company. Additionally, our code-share agreements contain termination and extension trigger provisions related to change in control type transactions that may have the effect of deterring a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 