ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following are important risks which could adversely affect our future results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not deem material may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks we describe below occur, or if any unforeseen risk develops, our operating results may suffer, our financial condition may deteriorate, the trading price of our common stock may decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment in us. Risks Related to Our Operations We are highly dependent on Delta, United and Continental. If any of our code-share agreements with Delta, United or Continental are terminated, we would be significantly impacted and likely would not have an immediate source of revenue or earnings to offset such loss. A termination of any of these agreements would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating revenues and net income unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements for the utilization of the affected aircraft by other code-share partners, or, alternatively, obtain the airport facilities and gates and make the other arrangements necessary to fly as an independent airline. We may not be able to enter into substitute code-share arrangements, and any such arrangements we might secure may not be as favorable to us as our current agreements. Operating our airline independent from major partners would be a significant departure from our business plan, would likely be very difficult and would likely require significant time and resources, which may not be available to us at that point. 18 Table of Contents The current terms of the SkyWest, SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet Delta Connection Agreements are subject to certain early termination provisions. Delta's termination rights include cross-termination rights (meaning that a breach by any of SkyWest, SkyWest Airlines or ExpressJet of its Delta Connection Agreement could, under certain circumstances, permit Delta to terminate any or all of the Delta Connection Agreements), the right to terminate each of the agreements upon the occurrence of certain force majeure events (including certain labor-related events) that prevent SkyWest Airlines or ExpressJet from performance for certain periods and the right to terminate each of the agreements if SkyWest Airlines or ExpressJet, as applicable, fails to maintain competitive base rate costs, subject to certain rights of SkyWest Airlines to take corrective action to reimburse Delta for lost revenues. The current terms of the SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet United Express Agreements are subject to certain early termination provisions and subsequent renewals. United may terminate the SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet United Express Agreements due to an uncured breach by SkyWest Airlines or ExpressJet of certain operational or performance provisions, including measures and standards related to flight completions, baggage handling and on-time arrivals. The current terms of the Continental CPA are subject to certain early termination provisions and subsequent renewals. Continental may terminate the Continental CPA due to an uncured breach by ExpressJet of certain operational and performance provisions, including measures and standards related to flight completions and on-time arrivals. We currently use the systems, facilities and services of Delta, United and Continental to support a significant portion of our operations, including airport and terminal facilities and operations, information technology support, ticketing and reservations, scheduling, dispatching, fuel purchasing and ground handling services. If Delta, United or Continental were to cease any of these systems, close any of these facilities or no longer provide these services to us, due to termination of one of our code-share agreements, a strike or other labor interruption by Delta, United or Continental personnel or for any other reason, we may not be able to replace those systems, facilities or services on terms and conditions as favorable as those we currently receive, or at all. Since our revenues and operating profits are dependent on our level of flight operations, we could then be forced to significantly reduce our operations. Furthermore, upon certain terminations of our code-share agreements, Delta, United and Continental could require us to sell or assign to them facilities and assets, including maintenance facilities, we use in connection with the code-share services we provide. As a result, in order to offer airline service after termination of any of our code-share agreements, we may have to replace these facilities, assets and services. We may be unable to arrange such replacements on satisfactory terms, or at all. The amounts we receive under our code-share agreements may be less than the corresponding costs we incur. Under our code-share agreements with Delta, United, Continental, Alaska and US Airways, we are compensated for certain costs we incur in providing services. With respect to costs that are defined as "pass-through" costs, our code-share partner is obligated to pay to us the actual amount of the cost. With respect to other costs, our code-share partner is obligated to pay to us amounts based, in part, on pre-determined rates for certain costs. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 30% of our costs were pass-through costs and approximately 70% of our costs were reimbursable at pre-determined rates. These pre-determined rates may not be based on the actual expenses we incur in delivering the associated services. If we incur expenses that are greater than the pre-determined reimbursement amounts payable by our code-share partners, our financial results will be negatively affected. SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet are parties to Delta Connection Agreements with Delta, pursuant to which SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet provide contract flight services for Delta. Among other provisions, those Delta Connection Agreements provide that Delta has the right to require that certain contractual rates under those agreements shall not exceed the second lowest rates of all carriers within the Delta Connection Program. On November 19, 2010, SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet reached 19 Table of Contents agreements with Delta related to the second lowest rate provisions to be applied under their respective Delta Connection Agreements. As a result, SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet have established the contractual rates which will apply under those agreements through December 31, 2015. There can be no assurance that the agreed-upon rates will be higher than the costs SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet will incur to provide the services required under their respective Delta Connection Agreement. The new rates and future rate adjustments could negatively affect our financial position and operating results. Increased labor costs, strikes, labor disputes and increased unionization of our workforces may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our business is labor intensive, requiring large numbers of pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and other personnel. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2011, our salary, wage and benefit costs constituted approximately 32.0% of our total operating costs. Increases in our unionized labor costs could result in a material reduction in our earnings. Any new collective bargaining agreements entered into by other regional carriers with their work forces may also result in higher industry wages and increased pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Future agreements with unionized and non-unionized employees may be on terms that are not as attractive as our current agreements or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors. Approximately 46% of our workforce is unionized. Strikes or labor disputes with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the U.S. are governed by the Railway Labor Act ("RLA"), which provides that a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a labor union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. The RLA generally prohibits strikes or other types of self-help actions both before and after a collective bargaining agreement becomes amendable, unless and until the collective bargaining processes required by the RLA have been exhausted. SkyWest Airlines' employees are not currently represented by any union; however, collective bargaining group organization efforts among those employees occur from time to time. Such efforts will likely continue in the future and may ultimately result in some or all of SkyWest Airlines' employees being represented by one or more unions. Moreover, one or more unions representing ExpressJet employees may seek a single carrier determination by the National Mediation Board, which could require SkyWest Airlines to recognize such union or unions as the certified bargaining representative of SkyWest Airlines' employees. One or more unions representing ExpressJet employees may also assert that SkyWest Airlines' employees should be subject to ExpressJet's collective bargaining agreements. If SkyWest Airlines' employees were to unionize or be deemed to be represented by one or more unions, negotiations with unions representing SkyWest Airlines' employees could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may result in increased operating expenses and may negatively impact our financial results. Moreover, we cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements. Agreements reached in collective bargaining may increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our financial results. Our ability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of ExpressJet Delaware will depend on the successful integration of the operations previously conducted by Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware. On November 12, 2010, we acquired ExpressJet Delaware through a merger of ExpressJet Holdings, Inc. ("ExpressJet Holdings"), the sole shareholder of ExpressJet Delaware, with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atlantic Southeast (the "ExpressJet Merger"). Effective December 31, 2011, we combined the operations of Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware through the ExpressJet 20 Table of Contents Combination. Many of the potential synergies of our acquisition of ExpressJet Delaware will only result from the successful integration of the operations of Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware, both of which operated as independent airlines prior to the ExpressJet Combination. The integration of the operations formerly conducted by Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware has required, and will continue to require, our management to devote significant attention and resources to combining the business practices and operations of both airlines. We incurred significant costs, and devoted significant management time, in our efforts to obtain a single operating certificate for the combined operations of Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware. Although that single operating certificate was issued by the FAA on November 17, 2011, and the ExpressJet Combination was completed on December 31, 2011, our management and employee will continue to devote significant attention and resources to the successful integration of the operations formerly conducted by Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware, particularly with respect to the integration of the employee groups of the two airlines. The integration of the operations formerly conducted by Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of management attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with passengers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the ExpressJet Merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. The integration of the Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware workforces will present significant challenges, including the possibility of labor-related disagreements that may adversely affect our operations. The successful integration of Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the ExpressJet Merger largely depend upon the successful combination of the former employee groups of Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware, and on maintaining productive employee relations. The integration of the workforces of the two airlines will require the resolution of potentially difficult issues relating to representation of various work groups and the relative seniority of the work groups at each carrier. Unexpected delays, expenses or other challenges to integrating the workforces could impact the anticipated synergies from the combination of Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware and affect ExpressJet's operations and financial performance. In order to integrate the former employee groups of Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware, ExpressJet must negotiate a joint collective bargaining agreement covering each combined employee group. The process for integrating the former labor groups of ExpressJet Delaware and Atlantic Southeast is governed by a combination of the RLA, the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of each company's collective bargaining agreements and union policy. Pending operational integration, ExpressJet will apply the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreements unless other terms have been negotiated. Under the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, seniority integration must be accomplished in a "fair and equitable" manner consistent with the process set forth in the Allegheny-Mohawk Labor Protective Provisions or internal union merger policies, if applicable. Employee dissatisfaction with the results of the seniority integration may lead to litigation that in some cases could delay implementation of the integrated seniority list. The National Mediation Board has exclusive authority to resolve representation disputes arising out of airline mergers. We can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for the former labor groups of Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware will be achieved. There is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the ExpressJet Combination. There is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt ExpressJet's normal operations, in an attempt to pressure ExpressJet in collective bargaining negotiations. Although the RLA makes such actions unlawful until the parties 21 Table of Contents have been lawfully released to self-help, and ExpressJet can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. Maintenance costs will likely continue to increase as the age of our regional jet fleet increases. Our maintenance costs increased $225.5 million, or 46.3%, during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The average age of our CRJ200s and our ERJ145s is approximately 10.2 years and 10.0 years, respectively. Most of the parts on the CRJ200 and ERJ145 fleets are no longer under warranty and we have started to incur more heavy airframe inspections and engine overhauls on those aircraft. Our maintenance costs are expected to continue to increase on our CRJ200 and ERJ145 fleets. Under our SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet United Express Agreements, specific amounts are included in the current rates for future maintenance on CRJ200 engines used in SkyWest Airlines' and ExpressJet's' United Express operations. The actual cost of maintenance on CRJ200 engines may vary from the agreed upon rates. During the year ended December 31, 2011, our CRJ200 engine expense for aircraft operated under our SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet United Express Agreements was $77.6 million as of December 31, 2011. Because the average age of our CRJ900s and CRJ700s as of December 31, 2011 was approximately 4.1 and 6.7 years, respectively, our CRJ900 and CRJ700 fleets require less maintenance now than we anticipate they will require in the future. We have incurred relatively low maintenance expenses on our CRJ900 and CRJ700 fleets because most of the parts on these aircraft are under multi-year warranties and a limited number of heavy airframe checks and engine overhauls have occurred. Our maintenance costs will increase significantly, both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of our operating expenses, as our fleet ages and these warranties expire. Those increased costs will have a negative impact on our financial results. We may be negatively impacted if Delta, United or Continental experiences significant financial difficulties in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2011 approximately 98.8% of the available seat miles ("ASMs") generated in our operations were attributable to our code-share agreements with Delta, United and Continental. Volatility in fuel prices may negatively impact Delta's, United's and Continental's results of operations and financial condition. Among other risks, Delta, United and Continental are vulnerable both to unexpected events (such as additional terrorist attacks or additional spikes in fuel prices) and to deterioration of the operating environment (such as a recession or significant increased competition). There is no assurance that Delta, United or Continental will be able to operate successfully under these financial conditions. In light of the importance of our code-share agreements with Delta, United and Continental to our business, a default by Delta, United or Continental under any of these agreements, or the termination of these agreements could jeopardize our operations. Such events could leave us unable to operate many of our current aircraft, as well as additional aircraft we are obligated to purchase, which would likely result in a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The financial condition of Delta and United will continue to pose risks for our operations. Serial bankruptcies are not unprecedented in the commercial airline industry, and Delta and/or United could file for bankruptcy, in which case our code-share agreements could be subject to termination under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Regardless of whether subsequent bankruptcy filings prove to be necessary, Delta and United have required, and will likely continue to require, our participation in efforts to reduce costs and improve their respective financial positions. These efforts could result in lower utilization rates of our aircraft, lower departure rates on the contract flying portion of our business, more volatile operating margins and more aggressive contractual positions, which could result in 22 Table of Contents additional litigation. We believe that any of these developments could have a negative effect on many aspects of our operations and financial condition. On October 16, 2009, SkyWest Airlines agreed to defer receipt of certain amounts otherwise payable by United under the SkyWest Airlines United Express Agreement. The maximum deferral amount is $49 million and any amounts deferred accrue a deferral fee of 8%, payable weekly. United's right to defer such payments is scheduled to terminate on October 16, 2019. United's failure to repay the amounts deferred pursuant to the foregoing financing arrangement could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet are engaged in litigation with Delta, which may negatively impact our financial results and our relationship with Delta During the quarter ended December 31, 2007, Delta notified SkyWest, SkyWest Airlines and Atlantic Southeast of a dispute under the Delta Connection Agreements executed by Delta with SkyWest Airlines and Atlantic Southeast. The dispute relates to the allocation of liability for certain irregular operation ("IROP") expenses paid by SkyWest Airlines and Atlantic Southeast to their passengers and vendors under certain situations. During the period between the execution of the Delta Connection Agreements in September 2005 and December 2007, SkyWest Airlines and Atlantic Southeast passed through to Delta IROP expenses that were paid pursuant to Delta's policies, and Delta accepted and reimbursed those expenses. Delta now claims it is obligated to reimburse only a fraction of the IROP expenses. As a result, Delta withheld a combined total of approximately $25 million (pre-tax) from one of the weekly scheduled wire payments to SkyWest Airlines and Atlantic Southeast during December 2007. Since December 2007, Delta has continued to withhold payments from the weekly scheduled wire payments to SkyWest Airlines and Atlantic Southeast (now ExpressJet), and has disputed subsequent billings for IROP expenses. As of December 31, 2011, we had recognized a cumulative total of $31.7 million of revenue associated with the funds withheld by Delta. Since July 1, 2008, we have not recognized revenue related to IROP expense reimbursements withheld by Delta because collection of those reimbursements is the subject of litigation and is not reasonably assured. The current status of the litigation with Delta is summarized below in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. There can be no assurance that the dispute between SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet, on the one hand, and Delta, on the other hand, will be resolved consistent with the position taken by SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet. If the dispute is not resolved consistent with the position taken by SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet, our financial results would be negatively impacted. The litigation may have other negative effects on our relationship with Delta and our operations under the existing Delta Connection Agreements. Disagreements regarding the interpretation of our code-share agreements with our major partners could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. SkyWest, SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet are parties to code-share agreements with Delta, United and Continental. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 99% of our ASMs were attributable to flights we flew under those agreements. We anticipate that, for the foreseeable future, substantially all of our revenues will be generated under existing or future code-share agreements. Contractual agreements, such as our code-share agreements, are subject to interpretation and disputes may arise under such agreements if the parties to an agreement apply different interpretations to that agreement. Those disputes may divert management time and resources from the core operation of the business, and may result in litigation, arbitration or other forms of dispute resolution. In recent years we have experienced disagreements with our major partners regarding the interpretation of various provisions of our code-share agreements. Some of those disagreements have resulted in litigation (see the preceding risk factor entitled "SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet are engaged 23 Table of Contents in litigation with Delta, which may negatively impact our financial results and our relationship with Delta"), and we may be subject to additional disputes and litigation in the future. Those disagreements have also required a significant amount of management time and financial resources. To the extent that we continue to experience disagreements regarding the interpretation of our code-share or other agreements, we will likely expend valuable management time and financial resources in our efforts to resolve those disagreements. Those disagreements may result in litigation, arbitration or other proceedings. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any or all of those proceedings, if commenced, would be resolved in our favor. An unfavorable result in any such proceeding could have adverse financial consequences or require us to modify our operations. Such disagreements and their consequences could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have a significant amount of contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2011, we had a total of approximately $1.8 billion in total long-term debt obligations. Substantially all of this long-term debt was incurred in connection with the acquisition of aircraft, engines and related spare parts. We also have significant long-term lease obligations primarily relating to our aircraft fleet. These leases are classified as operating leases and therefore are not reflected as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2011, we had 556 aircraft under lease, with remaining terms ranging from one to 17 years. Future minimum lease payments due under all long-term operating leases were approximately $2.6 billion at December 31, 2011. At a 5.2% discount factor, the present value of these lease obligations was equal to approximately $2.0 billion at December 31, 2011. Our high level of fixed obligations could impact our ability to obtain additional financing to support additional expansion plans or divert cash flows from operations and expansion plans to service the fixed obligations. Our fleet replacement will require a significant increase in our leverage and the related cash outflows. We currently have 266 CRJ200s with an average life of 10.2 years, 242 ERJ145s with an average life of 10.0 years and 45 EMB 120s with an average life of 14.5 years. We anticipate that over the next several years, we will begin to replace these aircraft with large regional jets or turboprops. Our fleet replacement strategy will require significant amounts of capital to acquire these large regional jets or turboprops. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow or liquidity to enable us to obtain the necessary aircraft acquisition financing to replace our current fleet, or to make required debt service payments related to our existing obligations. Even if we meet all required debt, lease, and purchase obligations, the size of these long-term obligations could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations, and the price of our common stock in many ways, including: •increasing the cost, or limiting the availability of, additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes; •limiting the ways in which we can use our cash flow, much of which may have to be used to satisfy debt and lease obligations; and •adversely affecting our ability to respond to changing business or economic conditions or continue our growth strategy. If we need additional capital and cannot obtain such capital on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to realize our fleet replacement plans or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities 24 Table of Contents We may be limited from expanding our flying within the Delta, United and Continental flight systems, and there are constraints on our ability to provide airline services to airlines other than Delta, United and Continental. Additional growth opportunities within the Delta, United and Continental flight systems are limited by various factors. Except as currently contemplated by our existing code-share agreements, we cannot assure that Delta, United or Continental will contract with us to fly any additional aircraft. We may not receive additional growth opportunities, or may agree to modifications to our code-share agreements that reduce certain benefits to us in order to obtain additional aircraft, or for other reasons. Furthermore, the troubled financial condition and prior bankruptcies and restructurings of Delta and United may reduce the growth of regional flying within their flight systems. Given the troubled nature of the airline industry, we believe that some of our competitors may be more inclined to accept reduced margins and less favorable contract terms in order to secure new or additional code-share operations. Even if we are offered growth opportunities by our major partners, those opportunities may involve economic terms or financing commitments that are unacceptable to us. Any one or more of these factors may reduce or eliminate our ability to expand our flight operations with our existing code-share partners. Additionally, even if Delta, United and/or Continental choose to expand our fleet on terms acceptable to us, they may be allowed at any time to subsequently reduce the number of aircraft covered by our code-share agreements. We also cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional ground and maintenance facilities, including gates, and support equipment, to expand our operations. The failure to obtain these facilities and equipment would likely impede our efforts to implement our business strategy and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Delta, United and Continental may be restricted in increasing their business with us, due to "scope" clauses in the current collective bargaining agreements with their pilots that restrict the number and size of regional jets that may be operated in their flight systems not flown by their pilots. Delta's scope limitations restrict its partners from operating aircraft with over 76 seats, even if those aircraft are operated for an airline other than Delta. We cannot assure that these scope clauses will not become more restrictive in the future. Any additional limit on the number of regional jets we can fly for our code-share partners could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and the price of our common stock. Our business model depends on major airlines, including Delta, United and Continental electing to contract with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Some major airlines, including Delta, American and Alaska, own their own regional airlines or operate their own regional jets instead of entering into contracts with regional carriers. We have no guarantee that in the future our code-share partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Our partners are not prohibited from doing so under our code-share agreements. A decision by Delta, United or Continental to phase out code-share relationships and instead acquire and operate their own regional jets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. Additionally, our code-share agreements limit our ability to provide airline services to other airlines in certain major airport hubs of each of Delta and United. Under the SkyWest Airlines Delta Connection Agreement, our growth is contractually restricted in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Orlando and Salt Lake City. Under the ExpressJet Delta Connection Agreement, our growth is restricted in Atlanta, Cincinnati, New York (John F. Kennedy International Airport), Orlando and Salt Lake City. Under the SkyWest Airlines United Express Agreement, growth is restricted in Chicago (O'Hare International Airport), Denver, San Francisco, Seattle/Tacoma and Washington D.C. (Dulles International Airport). Due to the fluctuations in our schedules, which are established primarily by our major partners, there may be times that the number of flights we fly to and from a particular airport may exceed the limitations set forth in one or more of our code-share agreements. The breach of those limitations 25 Table of Contents could constitute a breach of the applicable code-share agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Economic and industry conditions constantly change, and negative economic conditions in the United States and other countries may create challenges for us that could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our operations and financial condition are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including, among others: •disruptions in the credit markets, which have resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and decreased availability of financing; •actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, higher interest rates, wars, terrorist attacks or political instability; •changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends; •changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors; •actual or potential disruptions to U.S. air traffic control systems; •outbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and •weather and natural disasters. The aggregate effect of any, or some combination, of the foregoing economic and industry conditions on our operations or financial condition is virtually impossible to forecast; however, the occurrence of any or all of such conditions in a significant manner could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We have been adversely affected by increases in fuel prices, and we would be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel. Dependence on foreign imports of crude oil, limited refining capacity and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel. If there are additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil-producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of jet fuel, there could be a reduction in the supply of jet fuel and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. Major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost, or a continuation of current high prices for a significant period of time, would have a material adverse impact on us. Pursuant to our contract flying arrangements, our major partners have agreed to bear the economic risk of fuel price fluctuations on our contracted flights. We bear the economic risk of fuel price fluctuations on our pro-rate operations. As of December 31, 2011, essentially all of our Brasilia turboprops flown for Delta were flown under pro-rate arrangements, while approximately 61% of our Brasilia turboprops flown in the United system were flown under pro-rate arrangements. As of December 31, 2011, we operated 17 CRJ200s under a pro-rate agreement with United. We also operate one CRJ200 under a pro-rate agreement with Delta. Our operating and financial results with respect to these pro-rate arrangements can be affected by the price and availability of jet fuel and in the event we are unable to pass on increased fuel prices to our pro-rate customers by increasing fares our financial performance would be adversely impacted. 26 Table of Contents The Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009 could negatively affect our operations and our financial condition. Prompted by the crash of a Colgan aircraft, which killed 50 people near Buffalo, New York, passengers and governmental authorities have raised questions about pilot qualifications, training and fatigue. The Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009 (the "Improvement Act") was enacted in August of 2010. The Improvement Act adds new certification requirements for entry-level commercial pilots, requires additional emergency training, improves availability of pilot records and mandates stricter rules to minimize pilot fatigue. The Improvement Act also: •Requires that all airline pilots obtain an Airline Transport Pilot license, which was previously only required for captains. •Mandates that the FAA set up a new database of pilot records, including records to be provided by airlines and other sources, so that airlines will have access to more information before they hire pilots. •Requires the FAA to issue new regulations governing the airlines' obligations to submit pilot records and the requirements for airlines to obtain access for information in the database before the database portion of the Improvement Act becomes effective. •Directs the FAA to rewrite the rules for how long pilots are allowed to work and how much rest they must have before working. The implementation of the Improvement Act (and associated regulations) may increase our compliance and FAA reporting obligations, have a negative effect on pilot scheduling, work hours or other aspects of our operations, and negatively impact our operations and financial condition. Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under our code-share agreements would adversely impact our financial results. Our code-share agreements set forth minimum levels of flight operations which our major partners are required to schedule for our operations and we are required to provide. These minimum flight operating levels are intended to compensate us for reduced operating efficiencies caused by production decreases made by our major partners under our respective code-share agreements. Generally, our major partners have utilized our flight operations at levels which exceed the minimum levels set forth in our code-share agreements, however, in recent years our major partners have reduced our utilization to levels which, at times, have been lower than the levels required by our code-share agreements. If our major partners schedule the utilization of our aircraft below historical levels (including taking into account the stage length and frequency of our scheduled flights), we may not be able to maintain operating efficiencies previously obtained, which would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, our major partners may change routes and frequencies of flights, which can shorten flight trip lengths. Changes in schedules may increase our flight costs, which could exceed the reimbursed rates paid by our major partners. Continued reduced utilization levels of our aircraft or other changes to our schedules under our code-share agreements would adversely impact our financial results. There are long-term risks related to supply and demand of regional aircraft associated with our regional airline services strategy. Many of our major airline partners have publicly indicated in the past that their committed supply of regional airline capacity is larger than they desire given current market conditions. Specifically, they cite an oversupply of 50-seat regional jets under contractual commitments with regional airlines. Delta 27 Table of Contents in particular has reduced both the number of 50-seat regional jets within its network and the number of regional airlines with which it contracts. There are currently more than 300 50-seat aircraft within the Delta Connection system. In addition to reducing the number of 50-seat jets under contract, major airlines have reduced the utilization of regional aircraft, thereby reducing the revenue paid to regional airlines under capacity purchase agreements (See the risk factor titled "Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under our code-share agreements would adversely impact our financial results" for additional details). This decrease had a negative impact on our regional airline services revenue and profitability. Declining interest rates could have a negative effect on our financial results. Our earnings are affected by changes in interest rates due to the amount of our variable rate long-term debt and the amount of cash and securities we hold. Under our contractual arrangements with our major partners, we are directly reimbursed for interest expense on debt-financed aircraft as a pass-through cost. The reimbursement of the interest expense is recorded as passenger revenue in our consolidated statement of income. Thus, a decline in interest expense associated with contract aircraft would likely be offset by a reduced aircraft ownership cost passed through to our major partners. Interest expense decreased $6.1 million, or 7.1%, during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest expense was substantially due to a decrease in interest rates and the majority of this reduction was passed through to our major partners. Interest income decreased $6.1 million, or 42.7% during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Interest income is not a component of our contractual arrangement with our major partners. If interest rates were to decline, our major partners would receive the principal benefit of the interest expense decline, since interest expense is generally passed through to our major partners, however, if declining interest rates reduce our interest income, our financial results will be negatively affected. Our insurance costs have increased and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse impact on us. We carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to our aircraft. As a result of terrorist attacks occurring during recent years, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S.-based airlines through 2012, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government ceases to provide such insurance beyond that date, or reduces the coverage provided by such insurance, we will attempt to purchase insurance coverage, likely with a narrower scope, from commercial insurers at an additional cost. To the extent this coverage is not available at commercially reasonable rates, we would be adversely affected. While the price of commercial insurance has generally declined since the period immediately after the 2001 terrorist attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to us, or significantly increase the cost of obtaining such coverage, we would be adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior. In 2010, there was an outbreak of the H1N1 flu virus which had an adverse impact throughout our network. In 2003, there was an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ("SARS"), which had an adverse impact on travel behavior. In addition, in the past there have been concerns about 28 Table of Contents outbreaks or potential outbreaks of other diseases, such as avian flu. Any outbreak of a disease (including a worsening of the outbreak of the H1N1 flu virus) that affects travel behavior could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, outbreaks of disease could result in quarantines of our personnel or an inability to access facilities or our aircraft, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports, due to adverse weather or for any other reason, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We currently operate primarily through hubs in Atlanta, Los Angeles, Houston, Minneapolis, Detroit, San Francisco, Salt Lake City, Chicago, Denver, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, Houston, Washington, D.C., Newark, Cleveland and the Pacific Northwest. Nearly all of our flights either originate from or fly into one of these hubs. Our revenues depend primarily on our completion of flights and secondarily on service factors such as timeliness of departure and arrival. Any interruptions or disruptions could, therefore, severely and adversely affect us. Extreme weather can cause flight disruptions, and during periods of storms or adverse weather, fog, low temperatures, etc., our flights may be canceled or significantly delayed. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, in particular, caused severe disruption to air travel in the affected areas and adversely affected airlines operating in the region, including ExpressJet. We operate a significant number of flights to and from airports with particular weather difficulties, including Atlanta, Salt Lake City, Chicago, Newark and Denver. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs, due to adverse weather or otherwise, could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe adverse impact on our, operations and financial performance. We are increasingly dependent on technology, and if our technology fails or we are unable to continue to invest in new technology, our business may be adversely affected. We have become increasingly dependent on technology initiatives to reduce costs and to enhance customer service in order to compete in the current business environment. The performance and reliability of our technology are critical to our ability to compete effectively. Technology initiatives will continue to require significant capital investments in order to deliver these expected benefits. If we are unable to make these investments, our business and operations could be negatively affected. In addition, we may face challenges associated with integrating complex technology systems formerly operated by Atlantic Southeast and ExpressJet Delaware. If we are unable to manage these challenges effectively, our business and operations could be negatively affected. In addition, any internal technological error or failure or large scale external interruption in the technology infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, may disrupt our internal network. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of technology could impact our customer service and result in increased costs. Like most companies, our technology systems and related data may be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. While we have in place, and continue to invest in, technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and mitigate the resulting adverse financial consequences. Our investment in foreign airlines may negatively impact our profitability. On September 4, 2008, we announced our intention to acquire a 20% interest in a Brazilian regional airline, Trip Linhas Aereas ("Trip"), for $30 million. As of December 31, 2011, we had an investment balance of $28.5 million in Trip, which represents a 20% interest in Trip. On September 29, 2010, we acquired a 30% ownership interest in Mekong Aviation Joint Stock Company, an airline operating in Vietnam ("Air Mekong"), we had an investment balance of $2.9 million in Air Mekong as 29 Table of Contents of December 31, 2011. Our investments in Trip and Air Mekong are recorded as "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheet. There is no assurance that either Trip or Air Mekong will ultimately succeed in its respective business plan. In the event that Trip or Air Mekong incurs operating losses or files for bankruptcy, our investment may have little or no value and our financial results and condition would be negatively impacted. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Jerry C. Atkin, and our other key management and operating personnel. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. We do not maintain key-man insurance on any of our executive officers. Risks Related to the Airline Industry We may be materially affected by uncertainties in the airline industry. The airline industry has experienced tremendous challenges in recent years and will likely remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Among other factors, the financial challenges faced by major and regional carriers, including Delta, United, Continental, Alaska, US Airways, Pinnacle and Mesa, the slowing U.S. economy and continuing hostilities in the Middle East and other regions have significantly affected, and are likely to continue to affect, the U.S. airline industry. These events have resulted in declines and shifts in passenger demand, increased insurance costs, increased government regulations and tightened credit markets, all of which have affected, and will continue to affect, the operations and financial condition of participants in the industry, including us, major carriers (including our major partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers. These industry developments raise substantial risks and uncertainties, which will affect us, major carriers (including our major partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers in ways that we are unable to currently predict. The airline industry is highly competitive and has undergone a period of consolidation and transition leaving fewer potential code-share partners. The airline industry is highly competitive. We not only compete with other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as code-share partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low-cost carriers and major airlines on many of our routes. Low-cost carriers such as Southwest, JetBlue, US Airways and Frontier among others, operate at many of our hubs, resulting in significant price competition. Additionally, a large number of other carriers operate at our hubs, creating intense competition. Certain of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter our markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Increased fare competition could adversely affect our operations and the price of our common stock. The airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. Recent examples include the merger between United and Continental in October 2010, Delta and Northwest Airlines, Inc. ("Northwest") in November 2008 and America West Airlines and US Airways in September 2005, as well as the merger of Southwest and AirTran Airways, Inc. ("AirTran") during 2011. We understand that several airlines are currently in discussions related to consolidation in the industry. Other developments include domestic and international code-share alliances between major carriers. Any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could limit the number of potential partners with whom we could enter into code-share relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our code-share partners. 30 Table of Contents The major airlines may also make other strategic changes such as changing or consolidating hub locations. If our major partners were to make changes such as these in their strategy and operations, our operations and financial results could be adversely impacted. Terrorist activities or warnings have dramatically impacted the airline industry, and will likely continue to do so. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath have negatively impacted the airline industry in general, including our operations. The primary effects experienced by the airline industry include a substantial loss of passenger traffic and revenue. Although, to some degree, airline passenger traffic and revenue have recovered since the September 11th attacks, additional terrorist attacks could have a similar or even more pronounced effect. Even if additional terrorist attacks are not launched against the airline industry, there will be lasting consequences of the attacks, including increased security and insurance costs, increased concerns about future terrorist attacks, increased government regulation and airport delays due to heightened security. Additional terrorist attacks and the fear of such attacks could negatively impact the airline industry, and result in further decreased passenger traffic and yields, increased flight delays or cancellations associated with new government mandates, as well as increased security, fuel and other costs. We cannot provide any assurance that these events will not harm the airline industry generally or our operations or financial condition in particular. Fuel costs have adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, the operations and financial performance of the airline industry. The price of aircraft fuel is unpredictable and was volatile during much of 2008 and 2009 and, to a lesser degree, 2010 and 2011. Higher fuel prices may lead to higher airfares, which would tend to decrease the passenger load of our code-share partners. Over extended periods, such decreases will likely have an adverse effect on the number of flights we could be scheduled to operate and adversely affect our revenues. Additionally, fuel shortages have been threatened. The future cost and availability of fuel to us cannot be predicted, and substantial fuel cost increases or the unavailability of adequate supplies of fuel may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During periods of increasing fuel costs, our operating margins have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected. We are subject to significant governmental regulation. All interstate air carriers, including SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet, are subject to regulation by the DOT, the FAA and other governmental agencies. Regulations promulgated by the DOT primarily relate to economic aspects of air service. The FAA requires operating, air worthiness and other certificates; approval of personnel who may engage in flight, maintenance or operation activities; record keeping procedures in accordance with FAA requirements; and FAA approval of flight training and retraining programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time-consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our aircraft for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as our aircraft, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our aircraft at any airport at which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 31 Table of Contents The occurrence of an aviation accident would negatively impact our operations and financial condition. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could result in significant potential claims of injured passengers and others, as well as repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service. In the event of an accident, our liability insurance may not be adequate to offset our exposure to potential claims and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from the accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our operational and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that our operations are less safe or reliable than other airlines. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We can issue additional shares without shareholder approval. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the "Restated Articles"), authorize the issuance of up to 120,000,000 shares of common stock, all of which may be issued without any action or approval by our shareholders. As of December 31, 2011, we had 50,612,215 shares outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, we had equity-based incentive plans under which 3,687,086 shares are reserved for issuance and an employee stock purchase plan under which 2,343,031 shares are reserved for issuance, both of which may dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders. Our Restated Articles also authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock with the rights and preferences, and at the price, which it determines. Any shares of preferred stock issued would likely be senior to shares of our common stock in various regards, including dividends, payments upon liquidation and voting. The value of our common stock could be negatively affected by the issuance of any shares of preferred stock. The amount of dividends we pay may decrease or we may not pay dividends. Historically, we have paid dividends in varying amounts on our common stock. The future payment and amount of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition and results of operations, loan covenants and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. There can be no assurance that we will continue our practice of paying dividends on our common stock or that we will have the financial resources to pay such dividends. Provisions of our charter documents and code-share agreements may limit the ability or desire of others to gain control of our company. Our ability to issue preferred and common shares without shareholder approval may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock, even in circumstances where such a change in control would be viewed as desirable by most investors. The provisions of the Utah Control Shares Acquisitions Act may also discourage the acquisition of a significant interest in or control of our company. Additionally, our code-share agreements contain termination and extension trigger provisions related to change in control type transactions that may have the effect of deterring a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 32 Table of Contents 