ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following are important risks which could adversely affect our future results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not deem material may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks we describe below occur, or if any unforeseen risk develops, our operating results may suffer, our financial condition may deteriorate, the trading price of our common stock may decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment in us. Risks Related to Our Operations We are highly dependent on Delta and United. If any of our code-share agreements with Delta or United are terminated, we would be significantly impacted and likely would not have an immediate source of revenue or earnings to offset such loss. A termination of any of these agreements would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating revenues and net income unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements for the utilization of the affected aircraft by other code-share partners, or, alternatively, obtain the airport facilities and gates and make the other arrangements necessary to fly as an independent airline. We may not be able to enter into substitute code-share arrangements, and any such arrangements we might secure may not be as favorable to us as our current agreements. Operating our airline independent from major partners would be a significant departure from our business plan, would likely be very difficult and may require significant time and resources, which may not be available to us at that point. The current terms of the SkyWest, SkyWest Airlines and ASA Delta Connection Agreements are subject to certain early termination provisions. Delta's termination rights include cross-termination rights (meaning that a breach by SkyWest, SkyWest Airlines or ASA of its Delta Connection Agreement could, under certain circumstances, permit Delta to terminate any or all of the Delta Connection Agreements), the right to terminate each of the agreements upon the occurrence of certain force majeure events (including certain labor-related events) that prevent SkyWest Airlines or ASA from performance for certain periods and the right to terminate each of the agreements if SkyWest Airlines or ASA, as applicable, fails to maintain competitive base rate costs, subject to certain rights of SkyWest Airlines to take corrective action to reimburse Delta for lost revenues. The current terms of the SkyWest Airlines and ASA United Express Agreements are subject to certain early termination provisions and subsequent renewals. United may terminate the SkyWest Airlines and ASA United 15 Table of Contents Express Agreements due to an uncured breach by SkyWest Airlines or ASA of certain operational and performance provisions, including measures and standards related to flight completions, baggage handling and on-time arrivals. We currently use Delta's and United's systems, facilities and services to support a significant portion of our operations, including airport and terminal facilities and operations, information technology support, ticketing and reservations, scheduling, dispatching, fuel purchasing and ground handling services. If Delta or United were to cease any of these operations or no longer provide these services to us, due to termination of one of our code-share agreements, a strike or other labor interruption by Delta or United personnel or for any other reason, we may not be able to replace these services on terms and conditions as favorable as those we currently receive, or at all. Since our revenues and operating profits are dependent on our level of flight operations, we could then be forced to significantly reduce our operations. Furthermore, upon certain terminations of our code-share agreements, Delta and United could require us to sell or assign to them facilities and inventories, including maintenance facilities, we use in connection with the code-share services we provide. As a result, in order to offer airline service after termination of any of our code-share agreements, we may have to replace these airport facilities, assets and services. We may be unable to arrange such replacements on satisfactory terms, or at all. We may be negatively impacted by the troubled financial condition of Delta and United. For the year ended December 31, 2009 approximately 98.1% of our ASMs were attributable to our code-share agreements with Delta and United. Both Delta and United have incurred significant losses in recent years, which materially weakened their financial condition. Because of their weakened financial condition, there is no assurance that either United or Delta will ultimately succeed or will remain a going concern over the long term. Volatility in fuel prices may negatively impact both Delta's and United's results of operations and financial condition. Among other risks, Delta and United are vulnerable both to unexpected events (such as additional terrorist attacks or additional spikes in fuel prices) and to deterioration of the operating environment (such as a recession or significant increased competition). There is no assurance that Delta or United will be able to operate successfully under these financial conditions. In light of the importance of our code-share agreements with Delta and United to our business, the termination of these agreements could jeopardize our operations. Such events could leave us unable to operate many of our current aircraft, as well as additional aircraft we are obligated to purchase, which would likely result in a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The financial condition of Delta and United will continue to pose risks for our operations. Serial bankruptcies are not unprecedented in the commercial airline industry, and Delta and/or United could file for bankruptcy again, in which case our code-share agreements could be subject to termination under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Regardless of whether subsequent bankruptcy filings prove to be necessary, Delta and United have required, and will likely continue to require, our participation in efforts to reduce costs and improve their respective financial positions. These efforts could result in lower utilization rates of our aircraft, lower departure rates on the contract flying portion of our business, more volatile operating margins and more aggressive contractual positions, which could result in additional litigation. We believe that any of these developments could have a negative effect on many aspects of our operations and financial condition. On October 16, 2009, SkyWest Airlines entered into a series of transactions with United that provided operational funding to United, extended SkyWest Airlines' existing rights to operate 40 regional jet aircraft under the SkyWest Airlines United Express Agreement until the end of their current lease terms and created an opportunity for ASA to operate 14 regional jet aircraft as a United Express carrier. We anticipate that ASA will begin operating as a United Express carrier starting in the 16 Table of Contents first quarter of 2010, and the 14 United Express regional jets to be flown by ASA will be in operation by May of 2010. We also anticipate that ASA will operate these aircraft under a capacity purchase agreement with a five-year term, and other terms which are generally consistent with the existing SkyWest Airlines United Express Agreement. Also on October 16, 2009, SkyWest Airlines extended to United a secured term loan in the amount of $80 million. The term loan bears interest at a rate of 11%, with a ten-year amortization period. The loan is secured by certain ground equipment and airport slot rights held by United. SkyWest Airlines also agreed to defer certain amounts otherwise payable to SkyWest Airlines under the existing SkyWest Airlines United Express Agreement. The maximum deferral amount is $49 million and any amounts deferred accrue a deferral fee of 8%, payable weekly. United's right to defer such payments is scheduled to terminate in ten years. A default by United under the SkyWest Airlines United Express Agreement, the ASA United Express Agreement, the term loan extended by SkyWest Airlines to United or United's obligation to repay certain amounts deferred pursuant to the financing arrangement we established with United in October 2009, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the price of our common stock. The amounts we receive under our code-share agreements may be less than the actual amounts of the corresponding costs we incur. Under our code-share agreements with Delta and United, we are compensated for certain costs we incur in providing services. With respect to costs that are defined as "pass-through" costs, our code-share partner is obligated to pay to us the actual amount of the cost (and, with respect to the ASA Delta Connection Agreement, a pre-determined rate of return based upon the actual cost we incur). With respect to other costs, our code-share partner is obligated to pay to us amounts based, in part, on pre-determined rates for certain costs. During the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 46% of our costs were pass-through costs and approximately 54% of our costs were reimbursable at pre-determined rates. These pre-determined rates may not be based on the actual expenses we incur in delivering the associated services. If we incur expenses that are greater than the pre-determined reimbursement amounts payable by our code-share partners, our financial results will be negatively affected. The rates we are paid under the Delta Connection Agreements are subject to adjustment and, if adjusted downward beyond our current estimates, our financial results would be negatively affected. SkyWest Airlines and ASA have each entered into a Delta Connection Agreement with Delta, pursuant to which SkyWest Airlines and ASA provide contract flight services for Delta. Among other provisions, those Delta Connection Agreements provide that, beginning with the third anniversary of the execution of the agreements (September 8, 2008), Delta has the right to require that certain contractual rates under those agreements shall not exceed the average rate of all carriers. As of December 31, 2009, SkyWest Airlines and ASA had not finalized the contractual rates under their respective Delta Connection Agreements. On October 23, 2009, Delta sent letters to SkyWest Airlines and ASA requiring them to either adjust the rates payable under their respective Delta Connection Agreements or accept termination of those agreements. Delta also notified SkyWest Airlines and ASA of Delta's estimate of the average rates to be applied under the Delta Connection Agreements. On October 28, 2009, SkyWest Airlines and ASA notified Delta of their election to adjust the rates payable under the Delta Connection Agreements; however, they also notified Delta of their disagreement with Delta's estimated rates and their belief that the methodology Delta used to calculate its estimated rates is inconsistent with the terms of the Delta Connection Agreements. SkyWest Airlines and ASA have exchanged subsequent correspondence with Delta, and SkyWest Airlines and ASA continue to negotiate with Delta in an effort to determine an appropriate methodology for calculating the average rates of 17 Table of Contents the carriers within the Delta Connection program. Because SkyWest Airlines and ASA have not reached an agreement with Delta regarding the final contractual rates to be established under the Delta Connection Agreements, we have evaluated our method for calculating the average rate of the carriers within the Delta Connection Program under the revenue recognition accounting guidance and recorded revenue under those agreements based on our management's understanding of the applicable terms in the Delta Connection Agreements and our management's best estimate of the revenue that will ultimately be realized upon settlement of the contractual rates with Delta with respect to the year ended December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance that the methodology we have used to estimate the average rate which will be established pursuant to the Delta Connection Agreements will ultimately be used for purposes of determining the average rate to which we will be subject. If our disagreement with Delta on this issue is not resolved consistent with management's interpretation, our operating results and financial condition may be negatively impacted. The SkyWest Airlines and ASA Delta Connection Agreements provide that, beginning with the fifth anniversary of the execution of the agreements (September 8, 2010), Delta has the right to require that certain contractual rates under those agreements shall not exceed the 2nd lowest of all carriers within the Delta Connection Program. SkyWest Airlines and ASA are engaged in litigation with Delta, which may negatively impact our financial results and our relationship with Delta During the quarter ended December 31, 2007, Delta notified SkyWest, SkyWest Airlines and ASA of a dispute under the Delta Connection Agreements executed by Delta with SkyWest Airlines and ASA. The dispute relates to allocation of liability for IROP expenses that are paid by SkyWest Airlines and ASA to their passengers under certain situations. As a result, Delta withheld a combined total of approximately $25 million (pretax) from one of the weekly scheduled wire payments to SkyWest Airlines and ASA during December 2007. Delta continues to withhold a portion of the funds we believe are payable as weekly scheduled wire payments to SkyWest Airlines and ASA. As of December 31, 2009, we had recognized a cumulative total of $32.4 million of revenue associated with the funds withheld by Delta. On February 1, 2008, SkyWest Airlines and ASA filed a lawsuit in Georgia state court disputing Delta's treatment of the matter (the "Complaint"). Delta filed an Answer to the Complaint and a Counterclaim against SkyWest Airlines and ASA on March 24, 2008. Delta's Counterclaim alleges that ASA and SkyWest Airlines breached the Delta Connection Agreements by invoicing Delta for the IROP expenses that were paid pursuant to Delta's policies, and claims only a portion of those expenses may be invoiced to Delta. Delta seeks unspecified damages in its counterclaim. On March 24, 2008, Delta filed a Motion to Dismiss the Complaint (the "Motion to Dismiss"). A hearing on the Motion to Dismiss was held September 5, 2008. In an order entered September 13, 2008, the Court granted in part and denied in part the Motion to Dismiss. The Court denied the Motion to Dismiss with respect to the breach of contract claim contained in the Complaint. The Court denied in part the Motion to Dismiss with respect to the action for declaratory judgment contained in the Complaint, and granted in part the Motion to Dismiss to the extent the Complaint seeks to read alternative or supplemental obligations created by prior conduct into the Delta Connection Agreements. The Court granted the Motion to Dismiss with respect to claims for estoppel, unilateral mistake, and mutual mistake contained in the Complaint. The Court's ruling affects the current posture of the case, but does not preclude pursuit of the claim for breach of contract or the claim for declaratory relief, under which SkyWest Airlines and ASA continue to seek recovery of all amounts withheld by Delta. On July 31, 2009, SkyWest Airlines and ASA filed an Amended Complaint in the lawsuit adding claims under Georgia law for voluntary payment and mutual departure from the strict terms of the Delta Connection Agreements. Under those theories, SkyWest Airlines and ASA seek recovery of all of 18 Table of Contents the approximately $25 million withheld by Delta during December 2007. SkyWest Airlines and ASA are also seeking recovery of additional amounts withheld by Delta subsequent to December 2007. Discovery on all of SkyWest's Airlines' and ASA's claims and defenses is in process. On September 4, 2009, Delta filed a motion to dismiss the Amended Complaint in part. Delta asserts that the claims added by SkyWest Airlines and ASA in the Amended Complaint should be dismissed based on legal arguments set forth in Delta's memorandum in support of its motion. On January 22, 2010, the Court granted Delta's motion in part, dismissing the claims under Georgia law for voluntary payment and mutual departure from the strict terms of the Connection Agreements. SkyWest Airlines and ASA have filed an application seeking an interlocutory appeal of the Court's order and continue to vigorously pursue their claims set forth in the Amended Complaint, to the extent permitted by the Court's ruling on the Motion to Dismiss, and their defenses to Delta's counterclaims. There can be no assurance that the dispute will be resolved consistent with the position taken by SkyWest Airlines and ASA. If the dispute is not resolved consistent with the position taken by SkyWest Airlines and ASA our financial results would be negatively impacted. The litigation may have other negative effects on our relationship with Delta and our operations under the existing Delta Connection Agreements. Disagreements regarding the interpretation of our code-share agreements with our major partners could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. SkyWest and its subsidiaries have entered into code-share agreements with Delta and United. For the year ended December 31, 2009, more than 98% of our ASMs were attributable to flights we flew under those agreements. We anticipate that, for the foreseeable future, substantially all of our revenues will be generated under existing or future code-share agreements. Contractual agreements, such as our code-share agreements, are subject to interpretation and disputes may arise under such agreements if the parties to an agreement apply different interpretations to that agreement. Those disputes may divert management time and resources from the core operation of the business, and may result in litigation, arbitration or other forms of dispute resolution. In recent years we have experienced disagreements with our major partners regarding the interpretation of various provisions of our code-share agreements. Some of those disagreements have resulted in litigation (see the preceding risk factor entitled SkyWest Airlines and ASA are engaged in litigation with Delta, which may negatively impact our financial results and our relationship with Delta), and we may be subject to additional disputes and litigation in the future. Those disagreements have also required a significant amount of management time and financial resources. To the extent that we continue to experience disagreements regarding the interpretation of our code-share or other agreements, we will likely expend valuable management time and financial resources in our efforts to resolve those disagreements. Those disagreements may result in litigation, arbitration or other proceedings. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any or all of those proceedings, if commenced, would be resolved in our favor. An unfavorable result in any such proceeding could have adverse financial consequences or require us to modify our operations. Such disagreements and their consequences could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have a significant amount of contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of approximately $2.0 billion in total long-term debt obligations. Substantially all of this long-term debt was incurred in connection with the acquisition of aircraft, engines and related spare parts. We also have significant long-term lease obligations primarily relating to our aircraft fleet. These leases are classified as operating leases and therefore are not reflected as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2009, we had 284 aircraft 19 Table of Contents under lease, with remaining terms ranging from one to 17 years. Future minimum lease payments due under all long-term operating leases were approximately $2.9 billion at December 31, 2009. At a 5.8% discount factor, the present value of these lease obligations was equal to approximately $2.1 billion at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had commitments of approximately $98.0 million to purchase four CRJ700s. We expect to complete these deliveries by the first quarter of 2010. Our high level of fixed obligations could impact our ability to obtain additional financing to support additional expansion plans or divert cash flows from operations and expansion plans to service the fixed obligations. There are risks associated with our regional jet strategy, including potential oversupply and possible passenger dissatisfaction. Our selection of Bombardier Regional Jets as the primary aircraft for our existing operations and projected growth involves risks, including the possibility that there may be an oversupply of regional jets available for sale in the foreseeable future, due, in part, to the financial difficulties of regional and major airlines, including Delta, United, Comair, Mesa and ExpressJet. A large supply of regional jets may allow other carriers, or even new carriers, to acquire aircraft for unusually low acquisition costs, allowing them to compete more effectively in the industry, which may ultimately harm our operations and financial performance. Our regional jet strategy also presents the risk that passengers may find the Bombardier Regional Jets to be less attractive than other aircraft, including other regional jets. Recently, several other models of regional jets have been introduced by manufacturers other than Bombardier. If passengers develop a preference for other regional jet models, our results of operation and financial condition could be negatively impacted. We may be limited from expanding our flying within the Delta and United flight systems, and there are constraints on our ability to provide airline services to airlines other than Delta and United. Additional growth opportunities within the Delta and United flight systems are limited by various factors. Except as currently contemplated by our existing code-share agreements, we cannot assure that Delta or United will contract with us to fly any additional aircraft. We may not receive additional growth opportunities, or may agree to modifications to our code-share agreements that reduce certain benefits to us in order to obtain additional aircraft, or for other reasons. Furthermore, the troubled financial condition, bankruptcies and restructurings of Delta and United may reduce the growth of regional flying within their flight systems. Given the troubled nature of the airline industry, we believe that some of our competitors may be more inclined to accept reduced margins and less favorable contract terms in order to secure new or additional code-share operations. Even if we are offered growth opportunities by our major partners, those opportunities may involve economic terms or financing commitments that are unacceptable to us. Any one or more of these factors may reduce or eliminate our ability to expand our flight operations with our existing code-share partners. Additionally, even if Delta and/or United choose to expand our fleet on terms acceptable to us, they may be allowed at any time to subsequently reduce the number of aircraft covered by our code-share agreements. We also cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional ground and maintenance facilities, including gates, and support equipment, to expand our operations. The failure to obtain these facilities and equipment would likely impede our efforts to implement our business strategy and could materially adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Delta, United and/or AirTran may be restricted in increasing their business with us, due to "scope" clauses in the current collective bargaining agreements with their pilots that restrict the number and size of regional jets that may be operated in their flight systems not flown by their pilots. Delta's scope limitations restrict its partners from operating aircraft with over 76 seats, even if those aircraft are operated for an airline other than Delta. We cannot assure that these scope clauses will not become more restrictive in the future. Any additional limit on the number of regional jets we can fly for our code-share partners could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and the price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents Our business model depends on major airlines, including Delta and United, electing to contract with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Some major airlines, including Delta, American and Alaska Airlines, own their own regional airlines or operate their own regional jets instead of entering into contracts with regional carriers. We have no guarantee that in the future our code-share partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Our partners are not prohibited from doing so under our code-share agreements. A decision by Delta or United to phase out code-share relationships and instead acquire and operate their own regional jets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. Additionally, our code-share agreements limit our ability to provide airline services to other airlines in certain major airport hubs of each of Delta and United. Under the SkyWest Airlines Delta Connection Agreement, our growth is contractually restricted in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Orlando and Salt Lake City. Under the ASA Delta Connection Agreement, our growth is restricted in Atlanta, Cincinnati, New York (John F. Kennedy International Airport), Orlando and Salt Lake City. Under the SkyWest Airlines United Express Agreement, growth is restricted in Chicago (O'Hare International Airport), Denver, San Francisco, Seattle/Tacoma and Washington D.C. (Dulles International Airport). Economic and industry conditions constantly change, and negative economic conditions in the United States and other countries may create challenges for us that could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our operations and financial condition are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including, among others: •disruptions in the credit markets, which have resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and decreased availability of financing; •actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, higher interest rates, wars, terrorist attacks or political instability; •changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends; •changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors; •actual or potential disruptions to U.S. air traffic control systems; •outbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and •weather and natural disasters. The aggregate effect of any, or some combination, of the foregoing economic and industry conditions on our operations or financial condition is virtually impossible to forecast; however, the occurrence of any or all of such conditions in a significant manner could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under our code-share agreements would adversely impact our financial results. Our code-share agreements set forth minimum levels of flight operations which our major partners are required to schedule for our operations and we are required to provide. These minimum flight operating levels are intended to compensate us for reduced operating efficiencies caused by production decreases made by our major partners under our respective code-share agreements. Generally, our major partners have utilized our flight operations at levels which exceed the minimum levels set forth in our code-share agreements. For the year ended December 31, 2009 our block hours decreased 21 Table of Contents approximately 1.0% from the year ended December 31, 2008 and for certain months of the year ended December 31, 2009 the block hours flown under certain of our code-share agreements were lower than the minimum levels set forth in those agreements. However, if our major partners schedule the utilization of our aircraft below historical levels (including taking into account the stage length and frequency of our scheduled flights), we may not be able to maintain operating efficiencies previously obtained, which would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Continued reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under our code-share agreements would adversely impact our financial results. Increased labor costs, strikes, labor disputes and increased unionization of our workforces may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our business is labor intensive, requiring large numbers of pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and other personnel. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2009, our salary, wage and benefit costs constituted approximately 29.1% of our total operating costs. Increases in our unionized labor costs could result in a material reduction in our earnings. Any new collective bargaining agreements entered into by other regional carriers with their work forces may also result in higher industry wages and increased pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Future agreements with unionized and non-unionized employees may be on terms that are not as attractive as our current agreements or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors. ASA's pilots, flight attendants and flight controllers are represented by unions, including: The Air Line Pilots Association, International, the Association of Flight Attendants—CNA and the Professional Airline Flight Control Association. ASA's collective bargaining agreement with its pilots will become amendable on November 20, 2010. ASA's collective bargaining agreement with its flight attendants will become amendable in July 20, 2011. The contract with ASA's flight controllers became amendable in April 2006, and ASA is currently engaged in negotiations with its flight controllers. Negotiations with unions representing ASA's employees could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may result in increased operating expenses and may negatively impact our financial results. In addition, there are other ASA employees that are not currently represented by any union; however, collective bargaining group organization efforts among those employees occur from time to time. We recognize that such efforts will likely continue in the future and may ultimately result in additional ASA employees being represented by one or more unions. Moreover, we cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements. SkyWest Airlines' employees are not currently represented by any union; however, collective bargaining group organization efforts among those employees occur from time to time. We recognize that such efforts will likely continue in the future and may ultimately result in some or all of SkyWest Airlines' employees being represented by one or more unions. Moreover, one or more unions representing ASA employees may seek a single carrier determination by the National Mediation Board, which could require SkyWest Airlines to recognize such union or unions as the certified bargaining representative of SkyWest Airlines' employees. One or more unions representing ASA employees may also assert that SkyWest Airlines' employees should be subject to ASA collective bargaining agreements. If SkyWest Airlines' employees were to unionize or be deemed to be represented by one or more unions, negotiations with unions representing SkyWest Airlines' employees could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may result in increased operating expenses and may negatively impact our financial results. Moreover, we cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements. Agreements reached in collective bargaining may increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our financial results. 22 Table of Contents If unionizing efforts among SkyWest Airlines' employees are successful, we may be subjected to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation. If we are unable to reach labor agreements with any current or future unionized work groups, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages, which may adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations and may even allow Delta or United to terminate their respective code-share agreement. We have been adversely affected by increases in fuel prices, and we would be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel. Dependence on foreign imports of crude oil, limited refining capacity and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel. If there are additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil-producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of jet fuel, there could be a reduction in the supply of jet fuel and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. Major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost, or a continuation of current high prices for a significant period of time, would have a material adverse impact on us. Pursuant to our contract flying arrangements, Delta and United have agreed to bear the economic risk of fuel price fluctuations on our contracted flights. We bear the economic risk of fuel price fluctuations on our pro-rate operations. As of December 31, 2009, essentially all of our Brasilia turboprops flown for Delta were flown under pro-rate arrangements while, approximately 47% of our Brasilia turboprops flown in the United system were flown under pro-rate arrangements. As of December 31, 2009, we operated 14 CRJ200s under a pro-rate agreement with United. On November 4, 2009, we entered into a code-share agreement with AirTran. Under the terms of the code-share agreement, SkyWest Airlines has agreed to operate five CRJ200s for AirTran under a pro-rate arrangement. As of December 31, 2009, we operated two CRJ 200s with AirTran. We anticipate that SkyWest Airlines will add three additional aircraft in early 2010. Our operating and financial results can be affected by the price and availability of jet fuel. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, we may not be able to pass on increased fuel prices to our pro-rate customers by increasing fares. Fuel prices are volatile, and changed since 2007. The Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009 could negatively affect our operations and our financial condition. Prompted by the crash of a Colgan aircraft, which killed 50 people near Buffalo, New York, passengers and governmental authorities have raised questions about pilot qualifications, training and fatigue. The Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009 was introduced in the United States House of Representatives and, as of the date of this Report, was under consideration by the United States Senate. If adopted in the manner currently proposed, the Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009 would add new certification requirements for entry-level commercial pilots, require additional emergency training, improve availability of pilot records and mandate stricter rules to minimize pilot fatigue. The Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009 would also: •Require that all airline pilots obtain an Airline Transport Pilot license, which is currently only needed by captains. 23 Table of Contents •Mandate that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) within 90 days set up a new database of pilot records so that airlines will have access to more information before they hire someone for the cockpit. •Direct the FAA within one year to rewrite the rules for how long pilots can work. Declining interest rates could have a negative effect on our financial results. Our earnings are affected by changes in interest rates due to the amounts of variable rate long-term debt and the amount of cash and securities held. However, under our contractual arrangement with our major partners, the majority of the decline in interest expense would be passed through to our major partners and recorded as passenger revenue in the consolidated statement of income. Interest expense decreased $19.7 million, or 18.6%, during the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in interest expense was substantially due to a decrease in interest rates and the majority of this reduction was passed through to our major partners. Interest income decreased $9.7 million, or 46.5% during the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in interest income was substantially due to the decrease in interest rates. If interest rates continue to decline, our financial results will be negatively affected. Our insurance costs have increased and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse impact on us. We carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to our aircraft. As a result of terrorist attacks occurring during recent years, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S.-based airlines through August 31, 2010, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government ceases to provide such insurance beyond that date, or reduces the coverage provided by such insurance, we will attempt to purchase insurance coverage, likely with a narrower scope, from commercial insurers at an additional cost. To the extent this coverage is not available at commercially reasonable rates, we would be adversely affected. While the price of commercial insurance had declined since the period immediately after the 2001 terrorist attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to us, or significantly increase the cost of obtaining such coverage, we would be adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior. In the second quarter of 2009, there was an outbreak of the H1N1 flu virus which had an adverse impact throughout our network. In 2003, there was an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ("SARS"), which had an adverse impact on travel behavior. In addition, in the past there have been concerns about outbreaks or potential outbreaks of other diseases, such as avian flu. Any outbreak of a disease (including a worsening of the outbreak of the H1N1 flu virus) that affects travel behavior could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, outbreaks of disease could result in quarantines of our personnel or an inability to access facilities or our aircraft, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain all of the aircraft, engines, parts or related maintenance and support services we require, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. We rely on a limited number of aircraft types, and are dependent on Bombardier as the sole manufacturer of our regional jets. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 47.6% of our available seat miles were flown using CRJ200s, 37.6% of our available seat miles were flown using CRJ700s and 11.5% of our available seat miles were flown using CRJ900s. As of December 31, 2009, we had commitments of approximately $98.0 million to purchase four CRJ700s. We expect to complete these deliveries by the first quarter of 2010. Additionally, we have obtained options to acquire another 22 regional jets that can be delivered in 70 to 90-seat configurations. Delivery dates for these aircraft remain subject to final determination as agreed upon by us and our major partners. Any significant disruption or delay in the expected delivery schedule of our fleet would adversely affect our business strategy and overall operations and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results or our financial condition. Certain of Bombardier's aerospace workers are represented by unions and have participated in at least one strike in recent history. Any future prolonged strike at Bombardier or delay in Bombardier's production schedule as a result of labor matters could disrupt the delivery of regional jets to us, which could adversely affect our planned fleet growth. We are also dependent on General Electric as the sole manufacturer of our aircraft engines. General Electric also provides parts, repair and overhaul services, and other types of support services on our engines. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected by the failure or inability of Bombardier or General Electric to provide sufficient parts or related maintenance and support services to us on a timely or economical basis, or the interruption of our flight operations as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for our aircraft or engines. In addition, the issuance of FAA directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Bombardier aircraft types we operate would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Maintenance costs will likely continue to increase as the age of our regional jet fleet increases. Our maintenance costs increased $54.4 million, or 14.3%, during the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The average age of our CRJ200s is approximately 8.3 years. Most of the parts on the CRJ200 fleet are no longer under warranty and we have started to incur more heavy airframe inspections and engine overhauls on those aircraft. Our maintenance costs are expected to continue to increase on our CRJ200 fleet. Under our SkyWest Airlines United Express Agreement, specific amounts are included in the current rates for future maintenance on CRJ200 engines used in SkyWest Airlines' United Express operations. The ASA United Express Agreement contains similar provisions. The actual cost of maintenance on CRJ200 engines may vary from the agreed upon rates. During the year ended December 31, 2009, our CRJ200 engine expense for aircraft operated under our SkyWest Airlines United Express Agreement increased $29.7 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Because the average age of our CRJ900s and CRJ700s as of December 31, 2009 was approximately 2.1 and 4.8 years, respectively, our CRJ900 and CRJ700 fleets require less maintenance now than we anticipate they will require in the future. We have incurred relatively low maintenance expenses on our CRJ900 and CRJ700 fleets because most of the parts on these aircraft are under multi-year warranties and a limited number of heavy airframe checks and engine overhauls have occurred. Our maintenance costs will increase significantly, both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of our operating expenses, as our fleet ages and these warranties expire. Those increased costs will have a negative impact on our financial results. 25 Table of Contents If we incur problems with any of our third-party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may limit our ability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including fuel supply and delivery, aircraft maintenance, services and ground facilities, and software and expect to enter into additional similar agreements in the future. These agreements are generally subject to termination after notice. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of our automated or contract services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports, due to adverse weather or for any other reason, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We currently operate primarily through hubs in Atlanta, Los Angeles, Milwaukee, San Francisco, Salt Lake City, Chicago, Denver, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky and the Pacific Northwest. Nearly all of our flights either originate from or fly into one of these hubs. Our revenues depend primarily on our completion of flights and secondarily on service factors such as timeliness of departure and arrival. Any interruptions or disruptions could, therefore, severely and adversely affect us. Extreme weather can cause flight disruptions, and during periods of storms or adverse weather, fog, low temperatures, etc., our flights may be canceled or significantly delayed. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, in particular, caused severe disruption to air travel in the affected areas and adversely affected airlines operating in the region, including ASA. We operate a significant number of flights to and from airports with particular weather difficulties, including Atlanta, Salt Lake City, Chicago, Milwaukee and Denver. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs, due to adverse weather or otherwise, could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe adverse impact on our, operations and financial performance. Our investment in a foreign airline may negatively impact our profitability. On September 4, 2008, we announced our intention to acquire a 20% interest in a Brazilian regional airline, Trip Linhas Aereas ("Trip"), for $30 million. As of December 31, 2009, we had invested $20 million for a 16.4% interest in Trip, which is recorded under "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheet. If Trip meets or exceeds certain financial targets, we are scheduled to make another $10 million investment on March 1, 2010. There is no assurance that Trip will ultimately succeed in its business plan. In the event that Trip incurs operating losses or files for bankruptcy, our investment may have little or no value and our financial results and condition would be negatively impacted. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Jerry C. Atkin, and our other key management and operating personnel. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. We do not maintain key-man insurance on any of our executive officers. Risks Related to the Airline Industry We may be materially affected by uncertainties in the airline industry. The airline industry has experienced tremendous challenges in recent years and will likely remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Among other factors, the financial challenges faced by major carriers, including Delta and United, the slowing U.S. economy and increased hostilities in Iraq, the Middle East and other regions have significantly affected, and are likely to continue to affect, the U.S. 26 Table of Contents airline industry. These events have resulted in declines and shifts in passenger demand, increased insurance costs, increased government regulations and tightened credit markets, all of which have affected, and will continue to affect, the operations and financial condition of participants in the industry, including us, major carriers (including our major partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers. These industry developments raise substantial risks and uncertainties which will affect us, major carriers (including our major partners), competitors and aircraft manufacturers in ways that we are unable to currently predict. The airline industry is highly competitive and has undergone a period of consolidation and transition leaving fewer potential code-share partners. The airline industry is highly competitive. We not only compete with other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as code-share partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low-cost carriers and major airlines on many of our routes. Low-cost carriers such as Southwest, JetBlue, US Airways and Frontier among others, operate at many of our hubs, resulting in significant price competition. Additionally, a large number of other carriers operate at our hubs, creating intense competition. Certain of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter our markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Increased fare competition could adversely affect our operations and the price of our common stock. The airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. Recent examples include the merger between Delta and Northwest Airlines, Inc. ("Northwest") in November 2008, America West Airlines and US Airways in September 2005, and American's acquisition of the majority of Trans World Airlines' assets in 2001. Several of the major airlines are currently in discussions related to consolidation in the industry. Other developments include domestic and international code-share alliances between major carriers. Any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could limit the number of potential partners with whom we could enter into code-share relationships and materially adversely affect our relationship with our code-share partners. As a result of the Delta and Northwest merger, Delta may change its strategy regarding the use of its wholly owned regional carriers and the use of third party regional carriers such as SkyWest Airlines and ASA. Delta may also make other strategic changes such as changing and or consolidating hub locations. If Delta were to make changes such as these in its strategy and operations, our operations and financial results could be adversely impacted. Terrorist activities or warnings have dramatically impacted the airline industry, and will likely continue to do so. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath have negatively impacted the airline industry in general, including our operations. The primary effects experienced by the airline industry include a substantial loss of passenger traffic and revenue. Although, to some degree, airline passenger traffic and revenue have recovered since the September 11th attacks, additional terrorist attacks could have a similar or even more pronounced effect. Even if additional terrorist attacks are not launched against the airline industry, there will be lasting consequences of the attacks, including increased security and insurance costs, increased concerns about future terrorist attacks, increased government regulation and airport delays due to heightened security. Additional terrorist attacks and the fear of such attacks could negatively impact the airline industry, and result in further decreased passenger traffic and yields, increased flight delays or cancellations associated with new government mandates, as well as increased security, fuel and other costs. We cannot provide any assurance that 27 Table of Contents these events will not harm the airline industry generally or our operations or financial condition in particular. Fuel costs have adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, the operations and financial performance of the airline industry. The price of aircraft fuel is unpredictable and was volatile during much of 2007, 2008 and 2009. Higher fuel prices may lead to higher airfares, which would tend to decrease the passenger load of our code-share partners. In the long run, such decreases will likely have an adverse effect on the number of flights such partner will ask us to provide and the revenues associated with such flights. Additionally, fuel shortages have been threatened. The future cost and availability of fuel to us cannot be predicted, and substantial fuel cost increases or the unavailability of adequate supplies of fuel may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During periods of increasing fuel costs, our operating margins have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected. We are subject to significant governmental regulation. All interstate air carriers, including SkyWest Airlines and ASA, are subject to regulation by the DOT, the FAA and other governmental agencies. Regulations promulgated by the DOT primarily relate to economic aspects of air service. The FAA requires operating, air worthiness and other certificates; approval of personnel who may engage in flight, maintenance or operation activities; record keeping procedures in accordance with FAA requirements; and FAA approval of flight training and retraining programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time-consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our aircraft for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as our aircraft, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our aircraft at any airport at which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The occurrence of an aviation accident would negatively impact our operations and financial condition. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could result in significant potential claims of injured passengers and others, as well as repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service. In the event of an accident, our liability insurance may not be adequate to offset our exposure to potential claims and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from the accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our operational and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that our operations are less safe or reliable than other airlines. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We can issue additional shares without shareholder approval. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the "Restated Articles"), authorize the issuance of up to 120,000,000 shares of common stock, all of which may be issued without any action or approval by our shareholders. As of December 31, 2009, we had 55,609,015 shares outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we had equity-based incentive plans under which 1,453,234 shares are reserved for issuance and an employee stock purchase plan under which 2,847,093 shares are 28 Table of Contents reserved for issuance, both of which may dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders. Our Restated Articles also authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock with the rights and preferences, and at the price, which it determines. Any shares of preferred stock issued would likely be senior to shares of our common stock in various regards, including dividends, payments upon liquidation and voting. The value of our common stock could be negatively affected by the issuance of any shares of preferred stock. The amount of dividends we pay may decrease or we may not pay dividends. Historically, we have paid dividends in varying amounts on our common stock. The future payment and amount of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition and results of operations, loan covenants and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. There can be no assurance that we will continue our practice of paying dividends on our common stock or that we will have the financial resources to pay such dividends. Provisions of our charter documents and code-share agreements may limit the ability or desire of others to gain control of our company. Our ability to issue preferred and common shares without shareholder approval may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock, even in circumstances where such a change in control would be viewed as desirable by most investors. The provisions of the Utah Control Shares Acquisitions Act may also discourage the acquisition of a significant interest in or control of our company. Additionally, our code-share agreements contain termination and extension trigger provisions related to change in control type transactions that may have the effect of deterring a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 