Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in Harley-Davidson, Inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. These risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the Company. · The Company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its products. The Company depends on the capability of its independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand for the motorcycles and related products and services they purchase from the Company. If the Company’s independent dealers and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the Company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and to meet its financial expectations. · The Company and its independent dealers must balance the economies of level production with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. The Company generally records the sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the Company’s independent dealers and distributors. In the past, the Company has not experienced seasonal fluctuations in its wholesale motorcycle sales, and as a result, the Company has been able to maintain production that is relatively level. Also, in more recent years, the Company increased the availability of its motorcycles at dealerships to help improve the customer experience. The increased availability of motorcycles has resulted in the timing of retail purchases tracking more closely with regional motorcycle riding seasons. This requires the Company to adapt its methods for allocating its products to its dealer network so that allocation methods are aligned with retail demand. In addition, the Company’s independent dealers and distributors must manage seasonal increases in inventory. As a result, the Company and its independent dealers and distributors must balance the economies of level production with the inventory costs associated with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. Failure to balance the two, or the inability of the Company to adequately adjust its allocation methods, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. · The Company’s dealers may experience a decline in retail sales resulting from slowing economic growth, political events or other factors. The motorcycle industry can be affected by general economic and political conditions, among other factors, over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. These factors may cause a weak retail environment for discretionary purchases and the decision to purchase a motorcycle may be affected by these factors. Should industry demand decline, our results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. · The Company has a number of competitors of varying sizes that are based both inside and outside the United States some of which have greater financial resources than the Company. Many of the Company’s competitors are more diversified than the Company, and they may compete in the automotive market or all segments of the motorcycle market. Also, the Company’s manufacturer’s suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the heavyweight motorcycle market, the Company may have a competitive disadvantage. In addition, the Company’s financial services operations face significant competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions, some of which are larger and offer more financial products than the Company. Failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures worldwide may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. · The Company’s marketing strategy of associating its motorcycle products with a motorcycling lifestyle may not be successful with future customers. The Company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of motorcycling. This lifestyle is now more typically associated with a retail customer base comprised of individuals who are, on average, in their mid-forties. To sustain long-term growth, the Company must continue to be successful in promoting motorcycling to customers new to the sport of motorcycling including women, younger riders and more ethnically diverse riders. 15 · The Company’s success depends upon the continued strength of the Harley-Davidson brand. The Company believes that the Harley-Davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. Failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the Harley-Davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. · The Company’s prospects for future growth are largely dependent upon its ability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. The motorcycle market continues to advance in terms of cutting edge styling and new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. The Company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors’ products with unique styling and new technologies and to protect its intellectual property from imitators. In addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide. The Company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with Harley-Davidson products. The Company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to the marketplace in a timely manner. There can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the Company’s new products. · The Company’s Motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor. Substantially all of the hourly employees working in the Motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Harley-Davidson Motor Company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and the United Steelworkers of America that expire during March 2008, February 2010 and July 2012. These collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. There is no certainty that the Company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms as favorable to the Company as past labor agreements. Failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the Company and the unions could result in work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the Company’s business and results of operations. · The Company’s operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees. The Company’s future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. The current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and cash bonuses, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the Company’s existing employees. If the Company does not succeed in attracting personnel or retaining and motivating existing personnel, the Company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and grow effectively. · The Company incurs substantial costs with respect to pension benefits and providing healthcare for its employees. The Company’s estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other post-retirement healthcare benefits require the use of assumptions. They include the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets and several assumptions relating to the employee workforce (salary increases, medical costs, retirement age and mortality). Actual results may differ which may have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity. In addition, rising healthcare and retirement benefit costs in the United States may put the Company under significant cost pressure as compared to our competitors. · The Company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. To the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the Company’s products, the Company may be subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. The costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be substantial. The Company’s reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. 16 · The Company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. The Company cannot be certain that it will not experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery of raw materials and components. In certain circumstances, the Company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the Company’s production schedule. In addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the Company’s control such as increased worldwide demand. Further, Company suppliers who also serve the automotive industry may be experiencing financial difficulties due to a downturn in that industry. These supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. · The Company must maintain its reputation of being a good corporate citizen and treating customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders fairly. The Company has a history of good corporate governance. Prior to the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Act”), the Company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the Act and related rules and regulations, such as Board Committee Charters and a Corporate Governance Policy. In 1992, the Company established a Code of Business Conduct that defines how employees interact with various Company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. Failure to maintain this reputation may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. · The Company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. The Company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. When implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. · The Company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the Company’s business, financial condition, reputation and brand. The defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and attention away from business operations. In addition, although we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the Company. · The Company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. The Company’s sales and operations in areas outside the U.S. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. These laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the Company to sell its products in certain countries. The Company’s international sales operations may also be adversely affected by United States laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. The Company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. The Company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. If the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, our financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company’s domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the United States Government, including the Environmental Protection Agency, SEC, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Labor and Federal Trade Commission. In addition, the Company’s sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of 17 state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Our motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. These motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies, such as CARB, and other regulatory agencies around the world. We are also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of our manufacturing operations. Any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing our products. Further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, we may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. This may require us to spend additional funds on research, product development, implementation costs and subject us to the risk that our competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. The Company’s financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. The Company’s financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, Eaglemark Savings Bank. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may affect the earnings of the financial services operations and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Any unauthorized release of consumer data may subject the Company to liability and adversely affect the Company’s reputation. In addition, the Company is also subject to policies and actions of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). Many major competitors of the Company are not subject to the requirements of the SEC or the NYSE rules. As a result, the Company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the Company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. · Breaches of security involving consumers’ personal data may adversely affect the Company’s reputation, revenue and earnings. The Company receives and stores personal information in connection with its financial services operations, the Harley Owners Group and other aspects of its business. Breach of the systems on which sensitive consumer information is stored or other unauthorized release of consumer information may adversely affect the Company’s reputation and lead to claims against the Company. · The Company’s financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund its operations at attractive interest rates. The Company’s ability to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by its short term and long term credit ratings. The Company currently has strong credit ratings; however, in November 2007 Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered the Company’s long term corporate credit ratings. If the Company’s credit ratings are downgraded further, its cost of borrowing may be adversely affected resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins. · The Company’s financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s financial services business. The financial services business may be negatively affected by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets. Factors that it cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry in general, may impair our ability to raise funding. · The Company’s financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer to meet the terms of any contract with the Company. Credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, as well as contract terms, customer credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market. Negative changes in general 18 business, economic or market factors may adversely impact the Company’s credit losses and future earnings. Credit exposure is significantly sensitive to any decline in new and used motorcycle prices. In addition, the frequency of losses may be negatively influenced by adverse changes in macro-economic factors, such as unemployment rates and bankruptcy filings. · The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The Company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country’s local currency. Earnings from the Company’s financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to attempt to manage foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate risks. There can be no assurance that in the future the Company will successfully manage these risks. The Company disclaims any obligation to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements. The Company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 