Item 1A. Risk Factors. We rely on a few significant customers and the decrease in business from one or more of these significant customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. During fiscal 2009, approximately 50% of our net revenue was from three corporate entities — Sam’s Club (20%), TJX Companies (18%) and Dillard’s Department Stores (12%). We have no long- term agreements with our customers and a decision by any of these key customers to reduce the amount of purchases from us whether motivated by strategic and operational initiatives or financial difficulties could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued vertical integration by retailers and the development of their own labels could also result in a decrease in business which could have a material adverse impact on us. We must remain competitive by our ability to adequately anticipate market trends, respond to changing fashion trends and consumers’ buying patterns. Fashion trends can change rapidly, and our business is sensitive to such changes. We must effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demand and taste relatively far in advance of delivery to the consumer. There can be no assurance that we will accurately anticipate shifts in fashion trends to appeal to changing consumer tastes in a timely manner. Consumer and customer acceptance and support, which depend primarily upon styling, pricing, and quality, are important to remain competitive. If we are unsuccessful in responding to changes in fashion trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We rely on our lender CIT to borrow money in order to fund our operations. We rely on CIT, which is the sole source of our financing to borrow money in order to fund our operations. There has been significant news coverage regarding CIT’s financial stability, its ability to meet its financial obligations, and the possibility of CIT filing bankruptcy. Should any of these events occur, CIT may not be able to fund our business. While we believe we can obtain alternative financing, we may not have sufficient cashflow from operations to meet our liquidity needs, and therefore this could result in a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. CIT also provides credit and collection activities for our business and interruptions to these processes could also have a material adverse impact on our operations. We rely on our ability to execute our plans in order to have access to capital to fund our operations. If we are unable to execute our plans, we may not be able to have access to capital to fund our operations. We use foreign suppliers for the manufacturing of our products and in July 2009 we entered into an exclusive supply agreement with one of our major manufacturers, CTG. We do not own any manufacturing facilities and CTG will be our exclusive supplier of substantially all product we purchase in Asia/China. CTG will be responsible for the manufacturing of our products in accordance with our design specifications and production schedules. As with this past year, we expect over 95% of our products will be manufactured in the Far East and beginning with our January 2010 deliveries substantially all of our products purchased in Asia will be sourced through CTG. The inability of a manufacturer or the inability of CTG to ship orders in a timely manner in accordance with our specifications could have a material adverse impact on us. Our customers could refuse to accept deliveries, cancel orders, request significant reduction in purchase price or vendors allowances. We believe that CTG has the resources to manufacture our products in accordance with our specification and delivery schedules. In the event CTG is unable to meet our requirements and/or 7 Table of Contents our agreement was to terminate we believe that we would have the ability to develop, over a reasonable period of time, adequate alternate manufacturing sources. However, there can be no assurance that we would find alternate manufacturers of finished goods on satisfactory terms to permit us to meet our commitments to our customers on a timely basis. In such event, our operations could be materially disrupted, especially over the short-term. There are other risks associated with using foreign manufacturers such as: • Political and labor instability with foreign countries. • Terrorism, military conflict or war • Changes in quotas, duty rates or other politically imposed restrictions by China and other foreign countries or the United States • Delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations or other shipping disruptions • A decrease in availability or increase in the cost of raw materials The success of our Kenneth Cole licensed products depends on the value of the licensed brands and our achieving sufficient sales to offset the minimum royalty payments we must pay with respect to these products. The success of our Kenneth Cole licensed products depends on the value of the Kenneth Cole brand name. Our sales of these products could decline if Kenneth Cole’s image or reputation were to be negatively impacted. If sales of our Kenneth Cole licensed products decline, our profitability and earnings could be negatively affected because we would remain obligated to pay minimum royalties. Under our license agreement with KCP, we are required to achieve certain minimum sales levels, to pay certain minimum royalties and advertising and to maintain a minimum net worth. If we fail to make the minimum payments, maintain the required minimum sales, or maintain the required minimum net worth levels, KCP will have the right to terminate the license agreement. If KCP were to terminate the license agreement, our revenues would decrease. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The apparel business is highly competitive with numerous apparel designers, manufacturers and importers. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do and, in some cases, are vertically integrated in that they own and operate retail stores in addition to distributing on a wholesale basis. The competition within the industry may result in reduced prices and therefore reduced sales and profitability which could have a material adverse effect on us. Further consolidation in the retail industry could have a material adverse impact on our business. The retail industry has experienced an increase in consolidation over the past few years particularly with the merger of Federated Department Stores and May Department Stores. Mergers of these types further reduce the number of customers for our products and increase the bargaining power of these stores which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and profitability. Risks associated with the ownership of Common Stock. As of June 30, 2009, our Chairwoman and Chief Executive Officer owned approximately 50.2% of our outstanding stock. Accordingly, she has the ability to exert significant influence over our management and policies, such as the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or a merger. We will be subject to cyclical variations in the apparel markets. The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. We and other apparel vendors rely on the expenditure of discretionary income for most, if not all, sales. Economic downturns, whether real or perceived, in economic conditions or prospects could adversely affect consumer spending habits and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and results of operations. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract new and retain existing key personnel. Our operations will also depend to a great extent on our ability to attract new key personnel with relevant 8 Table of Contents experience and retain existing key personnel in the future. The market for qualified personnel is extremely competitive. Our failure to attract additional qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long-term growth. Our success is dependent on consumer demand and economic conditions stabilizing. Our operations are dependent on consumer demand for our products and the economic climate stabilizing. If the economic environment were to deteriorate consumer demand for our products may be affected thus having an adverse impact on our operations. 