ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We rely on a few significant customers and the decrease in business from one or more of these significant customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. During fiscal 2006, approximately 54% of our net revenue was from three corporate entities - Dillard's Department Stores (23%), Sam's Club (22%) and TJX Companies (9%). We have no long term agreements with our customers and a decision by any of these key customers to reduce the amount of purchases from us whether motivated by strategic and operational initiatives, or financial difficulties could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued vertical integration by retailers and the development of their own labels could also result in a decrease in business which could have a material adverse impact on us. We must remain competitive by our ability to adequately anticipate market trends, respond to changing fashion trends and consumers buying patterns. Fashion trends can change rapidly, and our business is sensitive to such changes. We must effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demand and taste relatively far in advance of delivery to the consumer. There can be no assurance that we will accurately anticipate shifts in fashion trends to appeal to changing consumer tastes in a timely manner. Consumer and customer acceptance and support, which depend primarily upon styling, pricing, and quality, are important to remain competitive. If we are unsuccessful in responding to changes in fashion trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely effected. We use foreign suppliers for the manufacturing of our products. We do not own any manufacturing facilities; all of our products are manufactured in accordance with our design specifications and production schedules through arrangements with independent manufacturers. Approximately 92% of our products are manufactured by independent suppliers located primarily in China, Hong Kong and elsewhere in the Far East and Guatemala. Approximately 8% of our products are manufactured in the United States. No contractual obligations exist between us and our manufacturers except on an order-by-order basis. During fiscal 2006, we purchased approximately 72% of our finished goods from our ten largest manufacturers, including approximately 12% of our purchases from our largest manufacturer. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders on a timely manner in accordance with our specifications could have a material adverse impact on us. Our customers could refuse to accept deliveries, cancel orders, request significant reduction in purchase price or vendors allowances. 7 There are other risks associated with using foreign manufacturers like: o Political and labor instability with foreign countries o Terrorism, military conflict or war o Changes in quotas, duty rates or other politically imposed restrictions by foreign countries or the United States o Delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations or other shipping disruptions o A decrease in availability or increase in the cost of raw materials We view the success of the Kenneth Cole Reaction products as a significant factor to improving the Company's financial picture. The success of the Kenneth Cole Reaction products depends on our ability to attract new customers. In June 2005, we entered into a license agreement with Kenneth Cole Productions (LIC), Inc. ("Kenneth Cole"), pursuant to which we were granted an exclusive license to design, manufacture, sell and distribute women's sportswear under the trademark "KENNETH COLE REACTION" in the United States in the women's better sportswear and better petite sportswear department of approved department stores and approved specialty stores. Under the license agreement, we are required to achieve certain minimum sales levels, to pay certain minimum royalties and to maintain a minimum net worth. We are also obligated to pay specified percentages of net sales to support advertising and to expend a total of approximately $3.6 million in the period ending December 31, 2007 to support the initial launch of the licensed products. If we fail to make the minimum payments and we fail to maintain the required minimum sales and net worth levels, Kenneth Cole will have the right terminate the license agreement. If Kenneth Cole were to terminate the license agreement, our revenues would decrease significantly and our ability to attract new customers would be impaired. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The apparel business is highly competitive with numerous apparel designers, manufactures and importers. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than us and, in some cases, are vertically integrated in that they own and operate retail stores in addition to manufacturing and distribution operations. The competition within the industry may result in reduced prices and therefore reduced sales and profitability which could have a material adverse effect on us. Further consolidation in the retail industry could have a material adverse impact on our business. The retail industry has experienced an increase in consolidation over the past few years particularly with the merger of Federated Department Stores and May Department Stores. Mergers of these types further reduce the number of customers for our products and increase the bargaining power of these stores which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and profitability. Risks associated with the ownership of Common Stock. As of June 30, 2006, our Chairwoman and Chief Executive Officer owned approximately 45% of our outstanding stock. Accordingly, she has the ability to exert significant influence over our management and policies, such as the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or a merger. We Will Be Subject To Cyclical Variations In The Apparel Markets. The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. We and other apparel vendors rely on the expenditure of discretionary income for most, if not all, sales. Economic downturns, whether real or perceived, in economic conditions or prospects could adversely affect consumer spending habits and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and results of operations. Our Success Is Dependent Upon Our Ability To Attract New Key Personnel. Our operations will also depend to a great extent on our ability to attract new key personnel with relevant experience and retain existing key personnel in the future. The market for qualified personnel is extremely competitive. Our failure to attract additional qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long-term growth. 8 