Item 1A. Risk Factors. We rely on the KCP License Agreement for a majority of our total revenue. We have agreed to an early termination of this agreement effective June 1, 2011. If we are unable to replace the revenue from this license agreement in a timely manner or incur significantly higher costs to do so, the termination could have a material adverse effect on our business. 6 Table of Contents During fiscal 2010, approximately 50% of our revenue was generated from the KCP License Agreement. We have agreed to an early termination of this agreement effective June 1, 2011. While we are currently in advanced negotiations with a third party to enter into a new licensing agreement, there can be no guarantee that we will enter into this agreement nor that we will be able to derive revenue from this agreement sufficient to offset the loss in revenue resulting from the termination of the KCP License Agreement. If we are unable to replace the revenue from the KCP License Agreement in a timely manner, or do so by incurring significantly higher costs than those associated with the KCP License Agreement, the termination will have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. CTG supplies us with the majority of our products on favorable payment terms. In the event CTG terminates its agreement with us or requires a change in the payment terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. In July 2009, we entered into an exclusive supply agreement with CTG. In fiscal 2010, purchases from CTG account for 53% of our product purchases and we expect this percentage to increase in fiscal 2011 and beyond. Should CTG terminate this agreement with us or require a change in the payment terms, we may be unable to locate alternative suppliers in a timely manner or obtain similarly favorable payment terms. As a result, any termination of this agreement or change in the favorable payment terms could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on our lender CIT to borrow money in order to fund our operations. CIT Group/Commercial Services, Inc. (“CIT”), a subsidiary of CIT Group, Inc., is the sole source of our financing and we rely on them to borrow money to fund our operations as well as to provide credit and collection services to our business. Our borrowings from CIT are based on the sufficiency of our assets and are at the discretion of CIT. If we do not maintain sufficient assets, CIT can choose to cease funding our business. While we believe we could obtain alternative financing, we may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our liquidity needs. Therefore, any decision by CIT to cease funding our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. We rely on a few significant customers and the decrease in business from one or more of these significant customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. During fiscal 2010, approximately 38% of our net revenue was from three corporate entities – TJX Companies (14%), Dillard’s Department Stores (13%) and Nordstrom (11%). We have no long- term agreements with our customers and a decision by any of these key customers to reduce the amount of purchases from us whether motivated by strategic and operational initiatives or financial difficulties could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued vertical integration by retailers and the development of their own labels could also result in a decrease in business which could have a material adverse impact on us. We must remain competitive by our ability to adequately anticipate market trends, respond to changing fashion trends and consumers, buying patterns. Fashion trends can change rapidly, and our business is sensitive to such changes. We must effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demand and taste relatively far in advance of delivery to the consumer. There can be no assurance that we will accurately anticipate shifts in fashion trends to appeal to changing consumer tastes in a timely manner. Consumer and customer acceptance and support, which depend primarily upon styling, pricing, and quality, are important to remain competitive. If we are unsuccessful in responding to changes in fashion trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We use foreign suppliers for the manufacturing of our products. We do not own any manufacturing facilities and CTG is our exclusive supplier of substantially all product we purchase in Asia. CTG is responsible for the manufacturing of our products in accordance with our design specifications and production schedules. In Fiscal 2010, over 95% of our products were manufactured in Asia. The inability of a manufacturer or CTG to ship orders in a timely manner in accordance with our specifications could have a material adverse impact on us. Our customers could refuse to accept deliveries, cancel orders, request significant reduction in purchase price or vendors allowances. We believe that CTG has the resources to manufacture our products in accordance with our specification and delivery schedules. In the event CTG is unable to meet our requirements and/or our agreement was to terminate, we believe that we would have the ability to develop, over a reasonable period of time, adequate alternate 7 Table of Contents manufacturing sources. However, there can be no assurance that we would find alternate manufacturers of finished goods on satisfactory terms to permit us to meet our commitments to our customers on a timely basis. In such event, our operations could be materially disrupted, especially over the short term. We are exposed to additional risks associated with using foreign manufacturers, including: • Political and labor instability and terrorism, war and military conflict in countries in which our goods are manufactured; • Changes in quotas, duty rates or other politically imposed restrictions by China and other foreign countries or the United States; • Delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations or other shipping disruptions; and • A decrease in availability, or increase in the cost of, raw materials. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The apparel business is highly competitive with numerous apparel designers, manufacturers and importers. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do and, in some cases, are vertically integrated in that they own and operate retail stores in addition to distributing on a wholesale basis. The competition within the industry may result in reduced prices and therefore reduced sales and profitability which could have a material adverse effect on us. Further consolidation in the retail industry could have a material adverse impact on our business. The retail industry has experienced an increase in consolidation over the past few years particularly with the merger of Federated Department Stores and May Department Stores. Mergers of these types further reduce the number of customers for our products and increase the bargaining power of these stores which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and profitability. Risks associated with the ownership of Common Stock. As of July 3, 2010, our Chairwoman and Chief Executive Officer and her children owned approximately 50.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share (“Common Stock”). Accordingly, they have the ability to exert significant influence over our management and policies, such as the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or a merger. We will be subject to cyclical variations in the apparel markets. The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. We and other apparel vendors rely on the expenditure of discretionary income for most, if not all, sales. Economic downturns, whether real or perceived, in economic conditions or prospects could adversely affect consumer spending habits and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and results of operations. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract new and retain existing key personnel. Our operations will also depend to a great extent on our ability to attract new key personnel with relevant experience and retain existing key personnel in the future. The market for qualified personnel is extremely competitive. Our failure to attract additional qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long-term growth. Our success is dependent on consumer demand and economic conditions stabilizing. Our operations are dependent on consumer demand for our products and the economic climate stabilizing. If the economic environment were to deteriorate consumer demand for our products may be affected thus having an adverse impact on our operations. 