ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or future results. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Risks Affecting Growth and Profitability of our Business We may be unable to develop new products and services or acquire products and services on favorable terms. The medical diagnostic and life science industries are characterized by ongoing technological developments and changing customer requirements. As such, our results of operations and continued growth depend, in part, on our ability in a timely manner to develop or acquire rights to, and successfully introduce into the marketplace, enhancements of existing products and services or new products and services that incorporate technological advances, meet customer requirements, and respond to products developed by our competition. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in developing or acquiring such rights to products and services on a timely basis, or that such products and services will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we must regularly allocate considerable resources to research and development of new products, services, and technologies. The research and development process generally takes a significant amount of time from design stage to product launch. This process is conducted in various stages. During each stage, there is a risk that we will not achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, and we may have to abandon a product in which we have invested substantial resources. During 2009, 2008, and 2007, we incurred $8,428, $6,183, and $6,085, respectively, in research and development expenses. We expect to continue to invest in our research and development activities. - 14 - Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully integrate operations or to achieve expected cost savings from acquisitions we make. One of our main growth strategies is the acquisition of companies and/or products. Although additional acquisitions of companies and products may enhance the opportunity to increase net earnings over time, such acquisitions could result in greater administrative burdens, increased exposure to the uncertainties inherent in marketing new products, and financial risks of additional operating costs. The principal benefits expected to result from any acquisitions we make will not be achieved fully unless we are able to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired entities with our operations and realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities from integrating these businesses into our existing businesses. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify and complete additional acquisitions on terms we consider favorable or that, if completed, will be successfully integrated into our operations. Revenues for our diagnostic operating segments may be impacted by our reliance upon two key distributors, seasonal factors and sporadic outbreaks, and changing diagnostic market conditions. Key Distributors Our US Diagnostic operating segment’s sales through two distributors were 58% and 54%, respectively, of the US Diagnostics operating segment’s total sales for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, or 38% and 34%, respectively, of our consolidated sales for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. These parties distribute our products and other laboratory products to end-user customers. The loss of either of these distributors could negatively impact our sales and results of operations unless suitable alternatives were timely found or lost sales to one distributor were absorbed by another distributor. Finding a suitable alternative on satisfactory terms may pose challenges in our industry’s competitive environment. As an alternative, we could expand our efforts to distribute and market our products directly. This alternative, however, would require substantial investment in additional sales, marketing, and logistics resources, including hiring additional sales and customer service personnel, which would significantly increase our future selling, general, and administrative expenses. In addition, buying patterns of these two distributors may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, potentially leading to uneven concentration levels on a quarterly basis. However, we expect that, over a 12-month period, these distributors’ orders would follow a normal buying pattern. Seasonal Factors and Sporadic Outbreaks Our principal business is the sale of a broad range of diagnostic test kits for common upper respiratory, gastrointestinal, viral, and parasitic infectious diseases. Certain infectious diseases may be seasonal in nature, while others may be associated with sporadic outbreaks, such as foodborne illnesses. While we believe that the breadth of our diagnostic product lines reduces the risk that infections subject to seasonality and sporadic outbreaks will cause significant variability in diagnostic revenues, we can make no assurance that revenues will not be negatively impacted period over period by such factors. - 15 - Table of Contents Changing Diagnostic Market Conditions Changes in the healthcare delivery system have resulted in major consolidation among reference laboratories and in the formation of multi-hospital alliances, reducing the number of institutional customers for diagnostic test products. Due to such consolidation, we may not be able to enter into and/or sustain contractual or other marketing or distribution arrangements on a satisfactory commercial basis with institutional customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We could be adversely affected by healthcare reform legislation. Third-party payers for medical products and services, including state and federal governments, are increasingly concerned about escalating health care costs and can indirectly affect the pricing or the relative attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they will provide for diagnostic testing services. In recent years, pressure has been increasing for the US government to enact comprehensive healthcare reform. These proposals have been wide-ranging on both state and federal levels. We are unable to predict whether any such legislation may be enacted in the US or elsewhere or what effect such legislation may have on reimbursement rates for our products. If reimbursement amounts for diagnostic testing services are decreased in the future, such decreases may reduce the amount that will be reimbursed to hospitals or physicians for such services and consequently could place constraints on the levels of overall pricing, which could have a material effect on our sales and/or results of operations. Revenues for our Life Science operating segment may be impacted by customer concentrations and buying patterns. Our Life Science operating segment’s sales of purified antigens and reagents to two customers were 30% and 36%, respectively, of the Life Science operating segment’s total sales for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, or 5% and 6%, respectively, of our consolidated sales for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. For one of these two customers, we have exclusive supply agreements that have annual, automatic renewal provisions. Although we have a long-standing relationship with this customer, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to renew these supply agreements, which could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our Life Science operating segment has two other significant customers who purchase antigens, antibodies and reagents, which together comprised 5% and 4%, respectively, of the operating segment’s total sales for fiscal 2009 and 2008. Any significant alteration of buying patterns from these customers could adversely affect our period over period sales and results of operations. Revenues relating to research, development and manufacturing services for our Life Science operating segment are generated on a contract by contract basis. The nature of this business is such that each contract provides a unique product and/or service and corresponding revenue stream. Although we believe that future prospects for this business will generate targeted growth rates, there can be no assurance that future contracts will be secured, and if secured, will be profitable. - 16 - Table of Contents Intense competition could adversely affect our profitability. The markets for our products and services are characterized by substantial competition and rapid change. Hundreds of companies in the United States supply immunodiagnostic tests and purified reagents. These companies range from multinational healthcare entities, for which immunodiagnostics is one line of business, to small start-up companies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, and marketing resources than we do. We cannot provide any assurance that our products and services will be able to compete successfully with the products and services of our competitors. During the last several months, molecular tests have been introduced for the first time into the C. difficile market, which is a significant source of revenues for us. Our ability to continue to successfully compete in the C. difficile market is partly dependent upon our ability to successfully develop and market our own molecular test. We currently are in active development of our own molecular C. difficile test under our illumigeneTM brand, with clinical trials expected to start in our second fiscal quarter of 2010. We are dependent on international sales, and our financial results may be adversely impacted by foreign currency, regulatory or other developments affecting international markets. We sell products and services into approximately 60 countries. Approximately 28% of our net sales for fiscal 2009 and approximately 32% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 were attributable to international markets. For fiscal 2009, 53% of our international sales were made in Euros, with the remaining 47% made in US dollars. We are subject to the risks associated with fluctuations in the US dollar-Euro exchange rates. We are also subject to other risks associated with international operations, including longer customer payment cycles, tariff regulations, requirements for export licenses, instability of foreign governments, and governmental requirements with respect to the importation and distribution of medical devices and antigens, antibodies and reagents, all of which may vary by country. Risks Affecting our Manufacturing Operations We are subject to comprehensive regulation, and our ability to earn profits may be restricted by these regulations. Medical device diagnostics and the manufacture, sale, and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies, and reagents are highly regulated industries. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary governmental clearances or approvals or timely clearances or approvals to market future products in the United States and other countries. Costs and difficulties in complying with laws and regulations administered by the US Food and Drug Administration, the US Department of Agriculture, the US Department of Commerce, the US Drug Enforcement Agency, the Centers for Disease Control, or other regulators can result in unanticipated expenses and delays and interruptions to the sale of new and existing products. Contract manufacturing of proteins and other biologicals is regulated by the US Food and Drug Administration. - 17 - Table of Contents Regulatory approval can be a lengthy, expensive, and uncertain process, making the timing and costs of approvals difficult to predict. The failure to comply with these regulations can result in delay in obtaining authorization to sell products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture or sell products, and other civil or criminal sanctions. Significant interruptions in production at our principal manufacturing facilities and/or third-party manufacturing facilities would adversely affect our business and operating results. Products and services manufactured at our Cincinnati, Ohio, Boca Raton, Florida, Memphis, Tennessee, and Saco, Maine facilities comprised 72% of our Diagnostics revenues and 75% of our Life Science revenues. Our global supply of these products and services is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. In addition, we currently rely on a small number of third-party manufacturers to produce certain of our diagnostic products. The operations of our facilities or these third-party manufacturing facilities could be adversely affected by power failures, natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, tornadoes or terrorist threats. Although we carry insurance to protect against certain business interruptions at our facilities, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any significant interruption in the Company’s or third-party manufacturing capabilities could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We are dependent on sole-source suppliers for certain critical components and products. A supply interruption could adversely affect our business. Our products are made from a wide variety of raw materials that are generally available from multiple sources of supply. However, certain critical raw materials and supplies required for the production of some of our principal products are available only from a single supplier. In addition, certain finished products, for which we act as a distributor, are available only from a single supplier. If these suppliers become unable or unwilling to supply the required raw materials or products, we would need to find another source, and perform additional development work and obtain regulatory approvals for the use of the alternative raw materials for our products. Completing that development and obtaining such approvals could require significant time and resources, and may not occur at all. Any disruption in the supply of these raw materials or finished products could have a material adverse affect on us. We have no individual products that represent greater than 10% of consolidated sales for which we have a sole source supplier. We sell certain respiratory tests for influenza and respiratory syncytial virus that we purchase from Inverness Medical Innovations. These products represented 13%, 14%, and 11%, respectively, of third-party sales for our US Diagnostics operating segment in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. While we do not have a long-term supply agreement with this vendor for these products, during fiscal 2008, we launched our own internally-developed products that compete with these products in the market. Two foodborne products sourced from another vendor accounted for 7% and 5% of third-party sales for our US Diagnostics operating segment in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. - 18 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Product Liability We may be unable to protect or obtain proprietary rights that we utilize or intend to utilize. In developing and manufacturing our products, we employ a variety of proprietary and patented technologies. In addition, we have licensed, and expect to continue to license, various complementary technologies and methods from academic institutions and public and private companies. We cannot provide any assurance that the technologies that we own or license provide protection from competitive threats or from challenges to our intellectual property. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in obtaining licenses or proprietary or patented technologies in the future. Product infringement claims by other companies could result in costly disputes and could limit our ability to sell our products. Litigation over intellectual property rights is prevalent in the diagnostic industry. As the market for diagnostics continues to grow and the number of participants in the market increases, we may increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims. It is possible that a third-party may claim infringement against us. If found to infringe, we may attempt to obtain a license to such intellectual property, however, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, if our products are found to infringe on third-party intellectual property, we may be required to pay damages for past infringement and lose the ability to sell certain products, causing our revenues to decrease. We currently carry intellectual property insurance that covers damages and defense costs from our potential infringement on other third-party patents at levels that we believe are commercially reasonable, although there is no assurance that it will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim could have a material adverse affect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation in the industry could have a material adverse affect on our business. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may have to limit or cease sales of our products. The testing, manufacturing, and marketing of medical diagnostic products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit or cease sales of our products. We currently carry product liability insurance at a level we believe is commercially reasonable, although there is no assurance that it will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. In certain customer contracts, we indemnify third parties for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may cause us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnifications. In addition, a defect in the design or manufacture of our products could have a material adverse affect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injury and otherwise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim could have a material adverse affect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation in the industry could have a material adverse affect on our business. - 19 - Table of Contents Other Risks Affecting Our Business Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to attract, hire, and retain key personnel. Our future success depends on our continued ability to attract, hire, and retain highly qualified personnel, including our executive officers and scientific, technical, sales, and marketing employees, and their ability to manage growth successfully. If such key employees were to leave and we were unable to obtain adequate replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our bank credit agreement imposes restrictions with respect to our operations. Our bank credit agreement contains a number of financial covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests. If we fail to comply with the obligations in the credit agreement, we would be in default under the credit agreement. If an event of default is not cured or waived, it could result in acceleration of any indebtedness under our credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. At the present time, no borrowings are outstanding under our bank credit agreement. Over the last 12 to 24 months, the credit markets and the banking industry have gone through a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse, or sale of various financial institutions. In response, the US federal government put into place a number of economic measures designed to stabilize the markets, the ultimate effect of which cannot yet be predicted. Should our ability to borrow money to finance our operations from our existing lender under our bank credit agreement be impaired our results of operations could be materially affected. We face other risks related to the current credit crisis. We currently generate significant operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets provides us with discretionary funding capacity for research and development and other strategic activities. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors, including financial institutions. If the current situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products from a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets and/or temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. If the current credit crisis were to continue to worsen such that we were unable to access the credit market, it could impair our ability to fund discretionary spending. - 20 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of such shares without any future vote or action by the shareholders. The issuance of preferred stock under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Ohio corporation law contains provisions that may discourage takeover bids for our company that have not been negotiated with the board of directors. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital at a price favorable to us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 