ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Certain information included in this report or in other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us) contains or may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They contain words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “might,” “should” and other words or phrases of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such statements may include information relating to anticipated operating results (including changes in revenues, profitability and operating margins), financial resources, interest expense, inventory write-downs, changes in accounting treatment, effects of homebuyer cancellations, growth and expansion, anticipated income to be realized from our investments in unconsolidated entities, the ability to acquire land, the ability to gain approvals and to open new communities, the ability to sell homes and properties, the ability to deliver homes from backlog, the ability to secure materials and subcontractors, the ability to produce the liquidity and capital necessary to expand and take advantage of opportunities in the future, industry trends, and stock market valuations. From time to time, forward-looking statements also are included in our other periodic reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, in press releases, in presentations, on our web site and in other materials released to the public. Any or all of the forward-looking statements included in this report and in any other reports or public statements made by us are not guarantees of future performance and may turn out to be inaccurate. This can occur as a result of incorrect assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this report or in other reports or public statements made by us, such as government regulation and the competitive environment, will be important in determining our future performance. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. On December 6, 2007, we issued a press release and held a conference call to review the results of operations for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2007 and to discuss the current state of our business. The information contained in this report is the same information given in the press release and on the conference call on December 6, 2007, and we are not reconfirming or updating that information in this Form 10-K. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. The continuation of the slowdown in our business could adversely affect our financial condition. Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, continuing throughout fiscal 2006 and 2007 and into the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we experienced a slowdown in our business. We believe this slowdown is attributable to a decline in consumer confidence, an overall softening of demand for new homes, an oversupply of homes available for sale, the inability of some of our home buyers to sell their current home and the direct and indirect impact of the 12 Table of Contents turmoil in the mortgage loan market. If these conditions continue over an extended period of time, or worsen, they could adversely affect our financial condition. Continued cancellations of existing agreements of sale may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our home buyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. We have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the home buyer does not complete the purchase. In some cases, however, a home buyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as his or her inability to obtain mortgage financing or to sell his or her current home. Our home buyers have cancelled a higher than normal number of agreements of sale since the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2005. If the current industry downturn continues, or if mortgage financing becomes less available, more home buyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us. The continued high levels of home buyer cancellations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. An adverse change in economic conditions could further reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. Changes in national and regional economic conditions, as well as local economic conditions where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live, can have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates and population growth, or an oversupply of homes for sale may further reduce demand, depress prices for our homes and cause homebuyers to cancel their agreements to purchase our homes. This, in turn, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and, if others are more successful or offer better value to our customers, our business could decline. We operate in a very competitive environment, which is characterized by competition from a number of other home builders in each market in which we operate. We compete with large national and regional home building companies and with smaller local home builders for land, financing, raw materials and skilled management and labor resources. We also compete with the resale, or “previously owned,” home market. Increased competition could cause us to increase our selling incentives and/or reduce our prices. An oversupply of homes available for sale and the heavy discounting of home prices by some of our competitors has adversely affected demand for our homes and the results of our operations. If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business could decline disproportionately to our competitors. If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business and earnings may decline. Our business and earnings depend substantially on our ability to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities, whether from bank borrowings or from financing in the public debt markets. Due to the decline in our business and that of our competitors, the availability of financing from banks and the public debt markets has declined significantly. If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease, or we could be precluded from continuing our operations at current levels. Increases in interest rates can make it more difficult and/or expensive for us to obtain the funds we need to operate our business. The amount of interest we incur on our revolving bank credit facility fluctuates based on changes in short-term interest rates, the amount of borrowings we incur and the ratings that national rating agencies assign to our outstanding debt securities. Increases in interest rates generally and/or any downgrading in the ratings that national rating agencies assign to our outstanding debt securities could increase the interest rates we must pay on any subsequent issuances of debt securities, and any such ratings downgrade could also make it more difficult for us to sell such debt securities. 13 Table of Contents If our home buyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business may decline. Our business and earnings also depend on the ability of our potential home buyers to obtain mortgages for the purchase of our homes. The uncertainties created by recent events in the mortgage markets and their impact on the overall mortgage market, including the tightening of credit standards, could adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for a home purchase, thus preventing our potential home buyers from purchasing our homes. Moreover, increases in the cost of home mortgage financing could prevent our potential home buyers from purchasing our homes. In addition, where our potential home buyers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a home from us, increases in mortgage costs could prevent the buyers of our potential home buyers’ existing homes from obtaining the mortgages they need to complete the purchase, which could result in our potential customers’ inability to buy a home from us. If our potential home buyers or the buyers of our home buyers’ current homes are not able to afford or obtain suitable financing under such circumstances, our sales and revenues could decline. Similar risks apply to those buyers who are in our backlog of homes to be delivered. If our potential buyers cannot obtain suitable financing in order to purchase our homes, our sales and profitability could be materially affected. If our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to fund these commitments ourselves. Normally, when our mortgage subsidiary provides, at the time of the closing of the home, a mortgage at a previously locked in rate, it has an agreement with an investor to acquire the mortgage. Should the resale market for our mortgages decline or the underwriting requirements by our investors become more stringent, our ability to sell future mortgages could decline and we could be required, among other things, to fund our commitments to our buyers with our own financial resources or require our home buyer to find another source of financing. If our home buyers cannot obtain another source of financing in order to purchase our homes, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. If land is not available at reasonable prices, our sales and earnings could decrease. Our operations depend on our ability to continue to obtain land for the development of our residential communities at reasonable prices. Changes in the general availability of land, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning regulations that limit housing density and other market conditions may hurt our ability to obtain land for new residential communities at prices that will allow us to make a reasonable profit. If the supply of land appropriate for development of our residential communities becomes more limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the cost of land could increase and/or the number of homes that we sell and build could be reduced. If the market value of our land and homes drop, our profits will likely decrease. The market value of our land and housing inventories depends on market conditions. We acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. If housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, may experience less than anticipated profits and/or may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. Due to the significant decline in our business since September 2005, we have recognized significant write-downs of our inventory in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007. If these adverse market conditions continue or worsen, we may have to write-down our inventories further, and/or may have to sell land or homes at a loss. Government regulations and legal challenges may delay the start or completion of our communities, increase our expenses or limit our homebuilding activities, which could have a negative impact on our operations. We must obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities in connection with our development activities, and these governmental authorities often have broad discretion in exercising their approval authority. We incur substantial costs related to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Any increase in legal and regulatory requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional costs, or in some cases cause us to determine 14 Table of Contents that the property is not feasible for development. Various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning building, zoning, sales and similar matters apply to and/or affect the housing industry. This governmental regulation affects construction activities as well as sales activities, mortgage lending activities and other dealings with consumers. The industry also has experienced an increase in state and local legislation and regulations which limit the availability or use of land. We may be required to apply for additional approvals or modify our existing approvals because of changes in local circumstances or applicable law. Further, we may experience delays and increased expenses as a result of legal challenges to our proposed communities, whether brought by governmental authorities or private parties. Expansion of regulation in the housing industry has increased the time required to obtain the necessary approvals to begin construction and has prolonged the time between the initial acquisition of land or land options and the commencement and completion of construction. These delays can increase our costs and decrease our profitability. Municipalities may restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps. In some areas, municipalities may enact growth control initiatives, which will restrict the number of building permits available in a given year. If municipalities in which we operate take actions like these, it could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays, increasing our costs or limiting our ability to operate in those municipalities. Increases in taxes or government fees could increase our costs, and adverse changes in tax laws could reduce customer demand for our homes. Increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space, road improvements, and/or provide low and moderate income housing, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, increases in local real estate taxes could adversely affect our potential customers who may consider those costs in determining whether to make a new home purchase and decide, as a result, not to purchase one of our homes. In addition, any changes in the income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate tax deductions or incentives to homeowners, such as proposed changes limiting the deductibility of interest on home mortgages, could make housing less affordable or otherwise reduce the demand for housing, which in turn could reduce our sales and hurt our operating results. Adverse weather conditions and conditions in nature beyond our control could disrupt the development of our communities, which could harm our sales and earnings. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods and fires, can have serious effects on our ability to develop our residential communities. We also may be affected by unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems. Any of these adverse events or circumstances could cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities and, as a result, could harm our sales and earnings. If we experience shortages or increased costs of labor and supplies or other circumstances beyond our control, there could be delays or increased costs in developing our communities, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to develop residential communities may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, or delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices of, building materials. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or could increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising our home prices because the price for each home is typically set months prior to its delivery pursuant to the agreement of sale with the home buyer. If that happens, our operating results could be harmed. Additionally, we may be limited in the amount we can raise sales prices by our customers’ unwillingness to pay higher prices. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to one collective bargaining agreement that covers approximately 2% of our employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages due to strikes by unionized workers, but we cannot assure you that there will not be any work stoppages due to strikes or other job actions in the future. We use independent contractors to construct our homes. At any given point in time, some or all of these subcontractors may be unionized. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly, which could adversely affect our business. As a home builder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high, and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could hurt our financial results. Our principal stockholders may effectively exercise control over matters requiring stockholder approval. As of December 11, 2007, Robert I. Toll and his affiliates owned, directly or indirectly, or had the right to acquire within 60 days, approximately 17.5% of the outstanding shares of Toll Brothers, Inc.’s common stock, and his brother Bruce E. Toll and his affiliates owned, directly or indirectly, or had the right to acquire within 60 days, approximately 4.3% of the outstanding shares of Toll Brothers, Inc.’s common stock. All our directors and executive officers as a group and their affiliates (including the shares of Robert I. Toll and Bruce E. Toll and their affiliates) owned, directly or indirectly, or had the right to acquire within 60 days, approximately 24.8% of the outstanding shares of Toll Brothers, Inc.’s common stock as of December 11, 2007. To the extent that Robert I. Toll, Bruce E. Toll and our other directors and executive officers vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to elect all of the directors and control the management, operations and affairs of Toll Brothers, Inc. Their ownership may discourage someone from making a significant equity investment in Toll Brothers, Inc., even if we needed the investment to operate our business. The size of their combined stock holdings could be a significant factor in delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that other stockholders may deem to be in their best interests, such as a transaction in which the other stockholders would receive a premium for their shares over their current trading prices. Our business is seasonal in nature, so our quarterly operating results fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results typically fluctuate with the seasons. A significant portion of our agreements of sale are entered into with customers in the winter and spring months. Construction of a customer’s home typically proceeds after signing the agreement of sale and can require 12 months or more to complete. Weather-related problems may occur in the late winter and early spring, delaying starts or closings or increasing costs and reducing profitability. In addition, delays in opening new communities or new sections of existing communities could have an adverse impact on home sales and revenues. Because of these factors, our quarterly operating results may be uneven and may be marked by lower revenues and earnings in some quarters than in others. Changes in accounting principles, interpretations and practices may affect our reported revenues, earnings and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and their accompanying pronouncements, implementation guidelines, interpretations and practices for certain aspects of our business are complex and may involve subjective judgments, such as revenue recognition, inventory valuations and income taxes. Changes in interpretations could significantly affect our reported revenues, earnings and operating results, and could add significant volatility to those measures without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. 16 Table of Contents Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws may negatively affect our operating results. We believe that our recorded tax balances are adequate. However, it is not possible to predict the effects of possible changes in the tax laws or changes in their interpretation and whether they could have a material negative effect on our operating results. Our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor. Claims, including two securities class actions, have been brought against us in various legal proceedings that have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Should claims be filed in the future, it is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be affected, from time to time, by the negative outcome of one or more of such matters. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. In the weeks following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, we experienced a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. Although new home purchases stabilized and subsequently recovered in the months after that initial period, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or increased domestic or international instability could adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 