ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Certain information included in this report or in other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us) contains or may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They contain words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “might,” “should” and other words or phrases of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, information relating to anticipated operating results (including, for example, changes in revenues, profitability and operating margins), financial resources, interest expense, inventory impairments and write-downs, changes in accounting treatment, effects of home buyer cancellations, growth and expansion, anticipated income to be realized from our investments in unconsolidated entities, the ability to acquire land and gain approvals to open new communities, to sell homes and properties, to deliver homes from backlog, to secure materials and subcontractors, to produce the liquidity and capital necessary to expand and take advantage of opportunities in the future, industry trends, and stock market valuations. From time to time, forward-looking statements also are included in our other periodic reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, in press releases, in presentations, on our web site and in other materials released to the public. Any or all of the forward-looking statements included in this report and in any other reports or public statements made by us are not guarantees of future performance and may turn out to be inaccurate. This can occur as a result of incorrect assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this report or in other reports or public statements made by us, such as government regulation and the 14 Table of Contents competitive environment, will be important in determining our future performance. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. On December 4, 2008, we issued a press release and held a conference call to review the results of operations for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2008 and to discuss the current state of our business. The information contained in this report is consistent with that given in the press release and on the conference call on December 4, 2008, and we are not reconfirming or updating that information in this Form 10-K. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. The homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant downturn, and its duration and ultimate severity are uncertain in the current state of the economy. A continued slowdown in our business will continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The downturn in the homebuilding industry, which is in its fourth year, has become one of the most severe in U.S. history. This downturn, which we believe started with a decline in consumer confidence, a decline in home prices and an oversupply of homes available for sale, has been exacerbated by, among other things, a decline in the overall economy, increasing unemployment, fear of job loss, a decline in the securities markets, the number of homes that are or will be available for sale due to foreclosures, an inability of home buyers to sell their current homes, a deterioration in the credit markets, and the direct and indirect impact of the turmoil in the mortgage loan market. All of these factors, in an economy that is now in recession, have contributed to the significant decline in the demand for new homes. Moreover, the government’s legislative and administrative measures aimed at restoring liquidity to the credit markets and providing relief to homeowners facing foreclosure have only recently begun. It is unclear whether these measures will effectively stabilize prices and home values or restore consumer confidence and increase demand in the homebuilding industry. As a result of this downturn, our sales and results of operations have been adversely affected, we have incurred significant inventory impairments and other write-offs, our gross margins have declined significantly, and we incurred a substantial loss, after write-offs, during fiscal 2008. We cannot predict the duration or ultimate severity of the current challenging conditions, nor can we provide assurance that our responses to the current downturn or the government’s attempts to address the troubles in the economy will be successful. If these conditions persist or continue to worsen, they will further adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additional adverse changes in economic conditions where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live could further reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could further reduce our results of operations and continue to adversely affect our financial condition. Adverse changes in national, regional and local economic conditions where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live, have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates and population growth, or an oversupply of homes for sale may further reduce demand, depress prices for our homes and cause home buyers to cancel their agreements to purchase our homes. This, in turn, could further reduce our results of operations and continue to adversely affect our financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Continued higher than normal cancellations of existing agreements of sale will have a continued adverse effect on our business. Our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our home buyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. We have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the home buyer does not complete the purchase. In some cases, however, a home buyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local law, the home buyer’s inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell their current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. Our home buyers have cancelled a higher than normal number of agreements of sale since the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2005. If the current industry downturn continues, if the current decline in economic conditions continues, or if mortgage financing becomes less available, more home buyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us. The continued high levels of home buyer cancellations will continue to have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and, if others are more successful or offer better value to our customers, our business could decline. We operate in a very competitive environment which is characterized by competition from a number of other home builders in each market in which we operate. We compete with large national and regional home building companies and with smaller local home builders for land, financing, raw materials and skilled management and labor resources. We also compete with the resale, or “previously owned,” home market which has increased significantly due to the large number of homes that have been foreclosed on or will be foreclosed on due to the current economic downturn. Increased competition could cause us to increase our selling incentives and/or reduce our prices. An oversupply of homes available for sale and the heavy discounting of home prices by some of our competitors have adversely affected demand for our homes and the results of our operations. If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business could decline disproportionately to our competitors. If we are not able to obtain suitable financing or our credit ratings are lowered, our business and results of operations may decline. Our business and results of operations depend substantially on our ability to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities, whether from bank borrowings or from financing in the public debt markets. Our revolving credit facility matures in March 2011, $343.0 million of our senior subordinated debt becomes due and payable in 2011 and $1.15 billion of our senior notes become due and payable at various times from November 2012 through May 2015. The availability of financing from banks and the public debt markets has declined significantly. Due to the deterioration of the credit markets and the uncertainties that exist in the economy and for home builders in general, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace existing financing or find additional sources of financing. If we are not able to obtain suitable financing or replace existing debt and credit facilities when they become due or expire, our costs for borrowings will likely increase and our revenues may decrease, or we could be precluded from continuing our operations at current levels. Increases in interest rates can make it more difficult and/or expensive for us to obtain the funds we need to operate our business. The amount of interest we incur on our revolving bank credit facility fluctuates based on changes in short-term interest rates, the amount of borrowings we incur and the ratings that national rating agencies assign to our outstanding debt securities. Increases in interest rates generally and/or any downgrading in the ratings that national rating agencies assign to our outstanding debt securities could increase the interest rates we must pay on any subsequent issuances of debt securities, and any such ratings downgrade could also make it more difficult for us to sell such debt securities. If we cannot obtain letters of credit and surety bonds, our ability to operate may be restricted. We use letters of credit and surety bonds to secure our performance under various construction and land development agreements, escrow agreements, financial guarantees and other arrangements. Should banks decline 16 Table of Contents to issue letters of credit or surety companies decline to issue surety bonds, our ability to operate could be significantly restricted and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If our home buyers or our home buyers’ buyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations may further decline. Our results of operations also depend on the ability of our potential home buyers to obtain mortgages for the purchase of our homes. The uncertainties created by recent events in the mortgage markets and their impact on the overall mortgage market, including the tightening of credit standards, could adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for a home purchase, thus preventing our potential home buyers from purchasing our homes. Moreover, increases in the cost of home mortgage financing could prevent our potential home buyers from purchasing our homes. In addition, where our potential home buyers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a home from us, increases in mortgage costs and/or lack of availability of mortgages could prevent the buyers of our potential home buyers’ existing homes from obtaining the mortgages they need to complete the purchase, which would result in our potential customers’ inability to buy a home from us. Similar risks apply to those buyers who are in our backlog of homes to be delivered. If our home buyers, potential buyers or buyers of our home buyers’ current homes cannot obtain suitable financing, our sales and results of operations would be adversely affected. If our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, our home buyers will be required to find alternative financing. Generally, when our mortgage subsidiary closes a mortgage for a home buyer at a previously locked in rate, it already has an agreement in place with an investor to acquire the mortgage following the closing. Due to the deterioration of the credit and financial markets, the number of investors that are willing to purchase our mortgages has decreased and the underwriting standards of the remaining investors have become more stringent. Should the resale market for our mortgages further decline or the underwriting standards of our investors become more stringent, our ability to sell future mortgages could decline and our home buyers will be required to find an alternative source of financing. If our home buyers cannot obtain an alternative source of financing in order to purchase our homes, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. If land is not available at reasonable prices, our sales and results of operations could decrease. In the long-term, our operations depend on our ability to obtain land for the development of our residential communities at reasonable prices. Due to the current downturn in our business, our supply of available home sites, both owned and optioned, has decreased from 91,200 home sites controlled at April 30, 2006 to 39,800 at October 31, 2008. In the future, changes in the general availability of land, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning regulations that limit housing density and other market conditions may hurt our ability to obtain land for new residential communities at prices that will allow us to make a reasonable profit. If the supply of land appropriate for development of our residential communities becomes more limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the cost of land could increase and/or the number of homes that we sell and build could be reduced. If the market value of our land and homes drop, our results of operations will likely decrease. The market value of our land and housing inventories depends on market conditions. We acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. If housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, may experience less than anticipated profits and/or may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. Due to the significant decline in our business since September 2005, we have recognized significant write-downs of our inventory in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008. If these adverse market conditions continue or worsen, we may have to write-down our inventories further and/or may have to sell land or homes at a loss. 17 Table of Contents Errors in estimates and judgments that affect decisions about how we operate and on the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses could have a material impact on us. In the ordinary course of doing business, we must make estimates and judgments that affect decisions about how we operate and on the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates include, but are not limited to, those related to the recognition of income and expenses; impairment of assets; estimates of future improvement and amenity costs; estimates of sales levels and sales prices; capitalization of costs to inventory; provisions for litigation, insurance and warranty costs; cost of complying with government regulations; and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate and adjust our estimates based upon the information then currently available. Actual results may differ from these estimates, assumptions and conditions. We participate in certain joint ventures where we may be adversely impacted by the failure of the joint venture or its participants to fulfill their obligations. We have investments in and commitments to certain joint ventures with unrelated parties to develop land. These joint ventures usually borrow money to help finance their activities. In certain circumstances, the joint venture participants, including ourselves, are required to provide guarantees of certain obligations relating to the joint ventures. As a result of the continued downturn in the homebuilding industry, some of these joint ventures or their participants have or may become unable or unwilling to fulfill their respective obligations. In addition, in many of these joint ventures, we do not have a controlling interest and, as a result, we are not be able to require these joint ventures or their participants to honor their obligations or renegotiate them on acceptable terms. If the joint ventures or their participants do not honor their obligations, we may be required to expend additional resources or suffer losses, which could be significant. Government regulations and legal challenges may delay the start or completion of our communities, increase our expenses or limit our homebuilding activities, which could have a negative impact on our operations. The approval of numerous governmental authorities must be obtained in connection with our development activities, and these governmental authorities often have broad discretion in exercising their approval authority. We incur substantial costs related to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Any increase in legal and regulatory requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional costs, or in some cases cause us to determine that the property is not feasible for development. Various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning building, zoning, sales and similar matters apply to and/or affect the housing industry. Governmental regulation affects construction activities as well as sales activities, mortgage lending activities and other dealings with consumers. The industry also has experienced an increase in state and local legislation and regulations that limit the availability or use of land. We may be required to apply for additional approvals or modify our existing approvals because of changes in local circumstances or applicable law. Further, we may experience delays and increased expenses as a result of legal challenges to our proposed communities, whether brought by governmental authorities or private parties. Expansion of regulation in the housing industry has increased the time required to obtain the necessary approvals to begin construction and has prolonged the time between the initial acquisition of land or land options and the commencement and completion of construction. These delays can increase our costs and decrease our profitability. Municipalities may restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps. In some areas, municipalities may enact growth control initiatives, which will restrict the number of building permits available in a given year. If municipalities in which we operate take actions like these, it could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays, increasing our costs or limiting our ability to operate in those municipalities. Increases in taxes or government fees could increase our costs, and adverse changes in tax laws could reduce customer demand for our homes. Increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space, road improvements, and/or provide low and moderate income housing, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, increases in local real estate taxes could adversely affect our potential customers who may consider those costs in determining whether to make a new home purchase 18 Table of Contents and decide, as a result, not to purchase one of our homes. In addition, any changes in the income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate tax deductions or incentives to homeowners, such as a change limiting the deductibility of interest on home mortgages, could make housing less affordable or otherwise reduce the demand for housing, which in turn could reduce our sales and hurt our results of operations. Adverse weather conditions and conditions in nature beyond our control could disrupt the development of our communities, which could harm our sales and results of operations. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods and fires, can have serious effects on our ability to develop our residential communities. We also may be affected by unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems. Any of these adverse events or circumstances could cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities and, as a result, could harm our sales and results of operations. If we experience shortages or increased costs of labor and supplies or other circumstances beyond our control, there could be delays or increased costs in developing our communities, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to develop residential communities may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers; changes in laws relating to union organizing activity; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, or delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices of, building materials. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or could increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising our home prices because the price for each home is typically set months prior to its delivery pursuant to the agreement of sale with the home buyer. If that happens, our operating results could be harmed. Additionally, we may be limited in the amount we can raise sales prices by our home buyers’ unwillingness to pay higher prices. We are subject to one collective bargaining agreement that covers approximately 1.5% of our employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages due to strikes by unionized workers, but we cannot assure you that there will not be any work stoppages due to strikes or other job actions in the future. We use independent contractors to construct our homes. At any given point in time, some or all of these subcontractors may be unionized. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly, which could adversely affect our business. As a home builder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high, and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could hurt our financial results. Our principal stockholders may effectively exercise control over matters requiring stockholder approval. As of December 10, 2008, Robert I. Toll and his affiliates owned, directly or indirectly, or had the right to acquire within 60 days, approximately 15.3% of the outstanding shares of Toll Brothers, Inc.’s common stock, and his brother Bruce E. Toll and his affiliates owned, directly or indirectly, or had the right to acquire within 60 days, approximately 3.9% of the outstanding shares of Toll Brothers, Inc.’s common stock. All our directors and executive officers as a group and their affiliates (including the shares of Robert I. Toll and Bruce E. Toll and their affiliates) owned, directly or indirectly, or had the right to acquire within 60 days, approximately 22.1% of the outstanding shares of Toll Brothers, Inc.’s common stock as of December 10, 2008. To the extent that Robert I. Toll, Bruce E. Toll and our other directors and executive officers vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may have a significant or decisive effect on the election of all of the directors and control the management, operations and affairs of Toll Brothers, Inc. Their ownership may discourage someone from making a significant equity investment in Toll Brothers, Inc., even if we needed the investment to operate our business. The size of their combined stock holdings could be a significant factor in delaying or preventing a change of control 19 Table of Contents transaction that other stockholders may deem to be in their best interests, such as a transaction in which the other stockholders would receive a premium for their shares over their current trading prices. Our business is seasonal in nature, so our quarterly operating results fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results typically fluctuate with the seasons. A significant portion of our agreements of sale are entered into with customers in the winter and spring months. Construction of a customer’s home typically proceeds after signing the agreement of sale and can require 12 months or more to complete. Weather-related problems may occur in the late winter and early spring, delaying starts or closings or increasing costs and reducing profitability. In addition, delays in opening new communities or new sections of existing communities could have an adverse impact on home sales and revenues. Expenses are not incurred and recognized evenly throughout the year. Because of these factors, our quarterly operating results may be uneven and may be marked by lower revenues and earnings in some quarters than in others. Changes in accounting principles, interpretations and practices may affect our reported revenues, earnings and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and their accompanying pronouncements, implementation guidelines, interpretations and practices for certain aspects of our business are complex and may involve subjective judgments, such as revenue recognition, inventory valuations and income taxes. Changes in interpretations could significantly affect our reported revenues, earnings and operating results, and could add significant volatility to those measures without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws may negatively affect our operating results. We believe that our recorded tax balances are adequate. However, it is not possible to predict the effects of possible changes in the tax laws or changes in their interpretation and whether they could have a material negative effect on our operating results. We may not be able to realize our deferred tax assets. At October 31, 2008, we had $405.7 million of net deferred tax assets (net of $24.1 million of valuation allowances). Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon taxable income in the future and/or our ability to carryback future tax losses against prior year taxable income. Losses for federal income tax purposes can generally be carried forward for a period of 20 years. For financial reporting purposes, a valuation allowance must be established when, based upon available evidence, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance may be increased or decreased as conditions change and the ultimate realization of the deferred tax assets depends on sufficient taxable income in future carryforward periods. If the slowdown in our business persists or continues to worsen, we might not be able to project future income to apply against our deferred tax assets and we would be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. Our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor. Claims, including a securities class action and a related shareholder derivative action, have been brought against us in various legal proceedings that have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Should claims be filed in the future, it is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be affected, from time to time, by the negative outcome of one or more of such matters. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. In the weeks following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, we experienced a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. Although new home purchases stabilized and subsequently recovered in the months after that initial period, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or increased domestic or international instability could adversely affect our business. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 