Risk Factors. In addition to the risk factors discussed herein, we are also subject to additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “Meridian,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or “our company” refer to Meridian Bioscience, Inc. and its subsidiaries. In the discussion that follows, all amounts are in thousands (both tables and text), except per share and employee data and square footage and acreage data related to properties. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Meridian is a fully-integrated life science company whose principal businesses are (i) the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits, primarily for certain gastrointestinal, viral, respiratory and parasitic infectious diseases; (ii) the manufacture and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies, PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides, competent cells and bioresearch reagents used by researchers and other diagnostic manufacturers; and (iii) the contract development and manufacture of proteins and other biologicals under cGMP conditions for use by biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in research for new drugs and vaccines. By exploiting revenue opportunities across research, clinical diagnostics and therapeutics, we strive to maximize revenues, efficiently invest in research and development, and increase profitability of our manufacturing operations. The company was incorporated in Ohio in 1976. Operating Segments Our reportable operating segments are U.S. Diagnostics, European Diagnostics and Life Science. The U.S. Diagnostics operating segment consists of manufacturing operations in Cincinnati, Ohio, and the sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits in the U.S. and countries outside of Europe, Africa and the Middle East. The European Diagnostics operating segment consists of the sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. The Life Science operating segment consists of manufacturing operations in Memphis, Tennessee; Saco, Maine; Boca Raton, Florida; London, England; Luckenwalde, Germany; and Sydney, Australia, and the sale and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies, PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides, competent cells and bioresearch reagents domestically and abroad. The Life Science operating segment also includes the contract development and manufacture of cGMP clinical grade proteins and other biologicals for use by biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in research for new drugs and vaccines. Financial information for Meridian’s operating segments is included in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements contained herein. - 4 - Table of Contents Our primary source of domestic and international revenues continues to be core diagnostic products, which represented 81% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2010. Our diagnostic products provide accuracy, simplicity and speed, enable early diagnosis and treatment of common, acute medical conditions, and provide for better patient outcomes at reduced costs. We target diagnostics for disease states that (i) are acute conditions where rapid diagnosis impacts patient outcomes; (ii) have opportunistic demographic and disease profiles; (iii) are underserved by current diagnostic products; and (iv) have difficult sample handling requirements. This approach has allowed us to establish significant market share in our target disease states. The acquisition of the Bioline group of companies (collectively the “Bioline Group”) in July 2010 significantly increased the revenue base for our Life Science operating segment. We expect revenues for our Life Science operating segment to approximate 24% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2011. Our website is www.meridianbioscience.com. We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto, free of charge through this website, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material has been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports may also be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, phone 1-800-732-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site containing these filings and other information regarding Meridian at http://www.sec.gov. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. U.S. Diagnostics Operating Segment Overview Our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s business focuses on the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits, primarily for certain gastrointestinal, viral, respiratory and parasitic infectious diseases. In addition to diagnostic test kits, products also include transport media that store and preserve specimen samples from patient collection to laboratory testing. Third-party sales for this operating segment were $92,020, $98,970 and $88,419 for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, reflecting a three-year compound annual growth rate of 7%. As of September 30, 2010, our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment had 284 employees. Our diagnostic test kits utilize immunodiagnostic and molecular technologies, which test samples of stool, blood, urine and other body fluids or tissue for the presence of specific infectious diseases. Specific immunodiagnostic technologies used in our diagnostic test kits include enzyme immunoassay, immunofluorescence, particle agglutination/aggregation, immunodiffusion, complement fixation and chemical stains. Additionally, during 2010 we received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance and introduced into the marketplace our new molecular amplification assay, illumigene® C.difficile. The illumigene® molecular amplification assay detects the presence of the toxin producing region from the C. difficile DNA, and provides highly accurate results in under an hour. - 5 - Table of Contents Our diagnostic products are used principally in the detection of gastrointestinal diseases, such as antibiotic-associated diarrhea (C. difficile), pediatric diarrhea (Rotavirus and Adenovirus) and stomach ulcers (H. pylori); foodborne diseases such as Enterohemorrhagic E. Coli infection (EHEC) and Campylobacter jejuni (Campy); viral diseases, such as Mononucleosis, Herpes Simplex, Chicken Pox and Shingles (Varicella-Zoster) and Cytomegalovirus (organ transplant infections); parasitic diseases, such as Giardiasis, Cryptosporidiosis and Lyme; and respiratory diseases, such as Pneumonia, Valley Fever, Influenza and Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV). The primary markets and customers for these products are reference laboratories and hospitals. Market Trends The global market for infectious disease tests continues to expand as new disease states are identified, new therapies become available, and worldwide standards of living and access to health care improve. More importantly, within this market there is a continuing shift from conventional testing, which requires highly trained personnel and lengthy turnaround times for test results, to more technologically advanced testing, which can be performed by less highly trained personnel and completed in minutes or hours. The increasing pressures to contain total health care costs have accelerated the increased use of diagnostic testing. With rapid and accurate diagnoses of infectious diseases, physicians can pinpoint appropriate therapies quickly, leading to faster recovery, shorter hospital stays and lower treatment expense. In addition, these pressures have led to a major consolidation among reference laboratories and the formation of multi-hospital group purchasing organizations that have reduced the number of institutional customers for diagnostic products and resulted in changes in buying practices. Specifically, multi-year exclusive or primary source marketing or distribution contracts with institutional customers have become more common, replacing less formal distribution arrangements. Sales and Marketing Our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s sales and distribution network consists of a direct sales force in the U.S. and Canada and independent distributors in the U.S. and abroad. The direct sales force consists of 4 management personnel who oversee corporate health accounts and work with managed-care institutions, and 6 management personnel who oversee 25 technical sales representatives, 3 inside sales representatives, and independent distributors in over 30 countries. Our only customers who accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 were two independent distributors in the U.S.: Cardinal Healthcare Corporation and Fisher Scientific. Our sales to Cardinal were $33,821, $37,876 and $31,285 during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our sales to Fisher were $18,204, $19,063 and $16,160 during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Currently, we do not have distribution agreements in place with these customers. However the need for formal distribution arrangements is assessed on an ongoing basis as our business and product offerings continue to evolve. - 6 - Table of Contents Consolidation of the U.S. healthcare industry is expected to continue and potentially affect our customers. Industry consolidation puts pressure on pricing and aggregates buying power. In response, we have looked to multi-year supply agreements with group purchasing organizations and major reference laboratories to stabilize pricing. Products and Markets We have expertise in the development and manufacture of products based on multiple core diagnostic technologies, each of which enables the visualization and identification of antigen/antibody reactions for specific pathogens. Our product technologies include DNA amplification, enzyme immunoassay, immunofluorescence, particle agglutination/aggregation, immunodiffusion, complement fixation and chemical stains. As a result, we are able to develop and manufacture diagnostic tests in a variety of formats that satisfy customer needs and preferences, whether in a hospital, commercial or reference laboratory, or alternate site location. Our product offering consists of approximately 140 medical diagnostic products. We had three products that accounted for 28%, 30% and 32% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively: ImmunoCard® Toxins A&B, PremierTM Toxins A&B and PremierTM Platinum HpSA® PLUS. ImmunoCard® Toxins A&B and PremierTM Toxins A&B are part of our C. difficile product family. ImmunoCard® Toxins A&B is a rapid enzyme immunoassay used for the detection of C. difficile toxins A and B in stool specimens. PremierTM Toxins A&B is an ELISA test in a batch microwell format for the detection of C. difficile toxins A and B in stool specimens. Both of the products were internally developed and are manufactured in our Cincinnati, Ohio facility. PremierTM Platinum HpSA® PLUS is an ELISA test in a microwell format for the detection of Heliobacter pylori antigens in stool specimens for diagnosis and monitoring and is a part of our H. pylori family of products. This product was internally developed and is manufactured in our Cincinnati, Ohio facility. We hold both U.S. and European patents for this product. - 7 - Table of Contents Research and Development Our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s research and development organization consists of 18 research scientists with expertise in biochemistry, immunology, mycology, bacteriology, virology, parasitology and molecular biology. Research and development expenses for the U.S. Diagnostics operating segment for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $6,565, $7,209 and $4,878, respectively. This research and development organization focuses its activities on new applications for our existing technologies, improvements to existing products and development of new technologies. Research and development efforts may occur in-house or with collaborative partners. We believe that new product development is a key source for sustaining revenue growth. Our internally developed products include Premierä Platinum HpSA PLUS, Premierä Toxins A&B and ImmunoCardÒ Toxins A&B, which together accounted for 33% of our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s third-party sales during fiscal 2010. After nearly four years of exploration and development of a molecular-based diagnostic testing technology to complement our existing antigen/antibody-based testing technologies, in the third quarter of 2010, we introduced our new molecular amplification assay, illumigene® C.difficile to the international markets. Shortly thereafter, early in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we received clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the product and began offering illumigene® C.difficile to our domestic customers. The illumigene® molecular amplification assay detects the presence of a key toxin producing region from the C. difficile DNA, and provides highly accurate results in under an hour. We believe this new molecular assay uniquely positions us in the market to provide a full line of testing solutions that will meet the needs of both our domestic and international customers. Having introduced this platform for C. difficile detection, several other infectious diseases have been identified for future development using this technology. We currently hold registrations to sell illumigene® in eighteen countries, including the U.S., with registrations pending in two additional countries. During fiscal 2008, we launched our first products under our patented TRU rapid test technology. The design of this technology enhances laboratory safety by containing the specimen in a closed system during testing as recommended by CDC guidelines. TRU tests also use less space than other technologies, which is an advantage in space-constrained clinical laboratories. New products using this technology include TRU FLU®, TRU RSV®, TRU EBV-M® and TRU EBV-G®. We also believe that the use of collaborative partners in the development of new products will complement our internal research and development staff in a manner that allows us to bring products to market more quickly than if development were to occur solely on an internal basis. During August 2006, we entered into a partnership agreement with the Performance & Life Science Chemicals Division of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany for the development of new clinical assays. Our first product under this agreement, ImmunoCard STAT!® EHEC, was launched during the second quarter of fiscal 2007. We launched our second product in collaboration with Merck, ImmunoCard STAT! ® CAMPY, during the third quarter of fiscal 2009. - 8 - Table of Contents Early in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 we entered into an exclusive, worldwide product development and distribution agreement with DiaSorin S.p.A., under which DiaSorin will utilize key Meridian technology to develop several infectious disease products for use on their LIAISON® systems. LIAISON is a fully automated, random access system based on chemiluminescense detection, of which there over three thousand placed in laboratories throughout the world. The agreement is royalty-based, with the actual royalty amount to be paid to Meridian dependent upon type of test and specific geographic market. Under the agreement, DiaSorin has exclusive distribution rights for the developed products in every geographic market except the U.S. and the U.K., where we retain the option for distribution. The first two products to be developed under the agreement will be for the detection of C. difficile and H. pylori. As a world leader in C. difficile testing, we strive to offer our customers a comprehensive C. difficile product portfolio. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we launched our Premier C. difficile GDH enzyme immunoassay product in non-U.S. markets and we have just recently initiated clinical trials in the United States. This assay provides our customers with a rapid, accurate and cost-effective screening method for the identification of suspected C. difficile infections. Manufacturing Our immunodiagnostic and molecular products require the production of highly specific and sensitive antigens, antibodies and primers. While we produce substantially all of our own requirements including monoclonal antibodies and polyclonal antibodies, plus a variety of fungal, bacterial and viral antigens, currently all of the raw materials used in our illumigene® molecular product are purchased from outside vendors. We believe that we have sufficient manufacturing and sourcing capacity for anticipated growth in the near term. Intellectual Property, Patents and Licenses We own or license U.S. and foreign patents, most of which are for products manufactured by our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment. Sales of these products are as follows: Number of % of consolidated sales Product Family products 2010 2009 H. pylori 2 13 % 12 % Upper respiratory 2 4 % 4 % Other 8 2 % 2 % Total patented products 12 19 % 18 % Patents for the two H. pylori products expire between 2016 and 2017, while patents for the two upper respiratory products expire in 2022 and 2027. The remaining eight patented products for which we own or license patents are spread over three product families. - 9 - Table of Contents In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who successfully replicate our production and manufacturing technologies and processes. Our employees are required to execute confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements designed to protect our proprietary products. Government Regulation Our diagnostic products are regulated by the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) as “devices” pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). Under the FDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three classes (i.e., Class I, II or III). Class I and II devices are not expressly approved by the FDA, but, instead, are “cleared” for marketing. Class III devices generally must receive “pre-market approval” from the FDA as to safety and effectiveness. Each of the diagnostic products currently marketed by us in the United States has been cleared by the FDA pursuant to the 510(k) clearance process or is exempt from such requirements. We believe that most, but not all, products under development will be classified as Class I or II medical devices and, in the case of Class II devices, will be eligible for 510(k) clearance; however, we can make no assurances in this regard. Sales of our diagnostic products in foreign countries are subject to foreign government regulation, the requirements of which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval and the requirements may differ. Meridian’s Cincinnati manufacturing facility is certified to ISO 13485. Seasonal Factors and Sporadic Outbreaks Our principal business is the sale of a broad range of diagnostic test kits for common gastrointestinal, viral, upper respiratory and parasitic infectious diseases. Certain infectious diseases may be seasonal in nature, while others may be associated with sporadic outbreaks, such as foodborne illnesses, or pandemics such as H1N1 influenza. While we believe that the breadth of our diagnostic product lines reduces the risk that infections subject to seasonality and sporadic outbreaks will cause significant variability in diagnostic revenues, we can make no assurance that revenues will not be negatively impacted period over period by such factors. European Diagnostics Operating Segment Our European Diagnostics operating segment’s business focuses on the sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits, manufactured both by our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment and by third-party vendors. Approximately 74% of third-party sales for fiscal 2010 for this operating segment were products purchased from our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment. Third-party sales for this operating segment were $24,041, $25,870 and $27,980 for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of September 30, 2010, the European Diagnostics operating segment had 39 employees, including 14 employees in the direct sales force. Our European Diagnostics operating segment’s sales and distribution network consists of direct sales forces in Belgium, France, Holland and Italy, and independent distributors in other European countries, Africa and the Middle East. The European Diagnostics operating segment maintains a distribution center near Milan, Italy. The primary markets and customers for this operating segment are hospitals and reference laboratories. - 10 - Table of Contents The European Diagnostics operating segment’s functional currency is the Euro. The translation of Euros into U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Life Science Operating Segment Overview Our Life Science operating segment’s business focuses on the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies, PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides, competent cells and bioresearch reagents used by researchers and other diagnostic companies, as well as contract development and manufacturing services under clinical cGMP conditions. Third-party sales for this operating segment were $26,939, $23,434 and $23,240 for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of September 30, 2010, our Life Science operating segment had approximately 175 employees. Most of the revenue for our Life Science operating segment currently comes from the manufacture, sale and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies, PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides, competent cells and bioresearch reagents used by researchers and other diagnostic companies. During fiscal 2010, 27% of third-party sales for this segment were to two customers. For one of these two customers, we have exclusive supply agreements that have annual, automatic renewal provisions. We have a long-standing relationship with this customer; and although there can be no assurances, we intend to renew these supply agreements in the normal course of business. In July 2010, we acquired the Bioline Group and in so doing added important technologies and capabilities to our Life Science business and complemented our expanding life science product lines sold into the research, pharmaceutical and commercial diagnostic markets. In addition to technological capabilities, Bioline also adds proprietary know-how in the production of high-volume nucleotides and PCR enzymes, as well as a growing portfolio of intellectual property in the form of patents and licenses. Our clinical cGMP protein production facility in Memphis, Tennessee serves as an enabling technology for process development and large-scale manufacturing for biologicals used in new drugs and vaccines. The size of the facility is intended to accommodate manufacturing requirements for Phase I and Phase II clinical trials. The customer base for this aspect of our Life Science business includes biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as government agencies, such as the National Institutes of Health. Revenues for our Life Science operating segment, in the normal course of business, may be affected from quarter to quarter by the timing and nature of arrangements for contract services work, which may have longer production cycles than our immunodiagnostic and molecular biology products, as well as buying patterns of major customers. See Note 1 (i) to the Consolidated Financial Statements herein for revenue recognition policies. Our revenues for contract services were $1,958, $1,635 and $1,477 in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. - 11 - Table of Contents During fiscal 2008, we acquired certain technologies and products from Vybion, Inc., including infectious disease recombinant proteins and cardiac antigens. This acquisition added important technologies and capabilities to our Life Science business and expanded our Life Science brands. The acquired technologies added proprietary manufacturing know-how and access to important patent licenses for the development and production of recombinant proteins, an emerging technology in life sciences. Products, Markets and Growth Strategies Our Life Science operating segment’s businesses have been assembled via acquisitions (BIODESIGN International in fiscal 1999, Viral Antigens in fiscal 2000, OEM Concepts in fiscal 2005, and most recently, the Bioline Group in July 2010). Historically, these businesses were run autonomously. In recent years, growth strategies have been developed around sales and marketing integration, new product development integration, and the acquisition of complementary product lines, such as the recombinant antigen products acquired from Vybion, Inc. in fiscal 2008. Immunodiagnostic products such as antibodies, antigens and reagents are marketed primarily to diagnostic manufacturing customers as a source of raw materials for their products, or as an outsourced step in their manufacturing processes. These products are typically sold in bulk quantities, and may also be custom-designed for a particular manufacturer’s requirements. Sales efforts are focused on multi-year supply agreements in order to provide stability in volumes and pricing. We believe this benefits both us and our customers. Molecular biology products such as PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides and competent cells are marketed primarily to research customers. These products are typically sold in small quantities. Research and Development Our Life Science operating segment’s research and development organization consists of 15 research scientists. Research and development expenses for our Life Science operating segment for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $2,005, $1,219 and $1,305, respectively. This research and development organization is heavily involved in vaccine development and production activities for our cGMP facility. Manufacturing and Government Regulation The cGMP clinical grade proteins that are produced in our Memphis facility are intended to be used as “injectibles,” and, as such, they are produced under cGMP Regulations for Biologics and Human Drugs under the auspices of the FDA. Approval and licensing, following clinical trials, of these products is the responsibility of the applicant, who owns the rights to each protein. Typically, the customer is the applicant, not Meridian Life Science. - 12 - Table of Contents The Meridian Life Science facilities are ISO 9001:2000 certified and EC 1774:2002 approved, where appropriate and as required. Competition Diagnostics The market for diagnostic tests is a multi-billion dollar international industry, which is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are larger than we are with greater financial, research, manufacturing and marketing resources. Important competitive factors for Meridian’s products include product quality, price, ease of use, customer service and reputation. In a broader sense, industry competition is based upon scientific and technological capability, proprietary know-how, access to adequate capital, the ability to develop and market products and processes, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, and the availability of patent protection. To the extent that our product lines do not reflect technological advances, our ability to compete in those product lines could be adversely affected. The diagnostic test industry is highly fragmented and segmented. Of importance in the industry are mid-sized medical diagnostic specialty companies, like Meridian, that offer multiple, broad product lines and have the ability to deliver new, high value products quickly to the marketplace. Among the companies with which we compete in the marketing of one or more of our products are the diagnostic product divisions of Abbott Laboratories Inc., Becton, Dickinson and Company, Thermo Fisher and Siemens. We also compete with smaller companies such as Cepheid, Quidel Corporation and Alere Inc. C. difficile is one of our primary disease categories. Over the last 24-30 months, considerable confusion has developed in this market over the relative benefits of the various testing methods available (toxin testing, antigen testing and molecular testing). Several new competitive products, including molecular assays, have recently been introduced into this market, causing competitive pressures for our products. With the development and launch of our illumigene® molecular C. difficile product, we believe we are well-armed to combat these competitive pressures. Following the introduction of illumigene® C. difficile, we are the only manufacturer offering toxin, antigen and molecular products for C. difficile testing. Life Science The market for bulk biomedical reagents is highly competitive. Important competitive factors include product quality, price, customer service, and reputation. We face competitors, many of which have greater financial, research and development, sales and marketing, and manufacturing resources, and where sole-source supply arrangements do not exist. From time to time, customers may choose to manufacture their biomedical reagents in-house rather than purchase from outside vendors such as Meridian. - 13 - Table of Contents The market for contract manufacturing in a validated cGMP facility, such as our Memphis facility, is also competitive. Important competitive factors include reputation, customer service and price. Although the product application for this facility was built from our existing expertise in cell culture manufacturing techniques, we face competitors with greater experience in contract manufacturing in a clinical cGMP environment. Acquisitions Acquisitions have played an important role in the historical growth of our businesses. Our acquisition objectives include, among other things, (i) enhancing product offerings; (ii) improving product distribution capabilities; (iii) providing access to new markets; and/or (iv) providing access to key biologicals or new technologies that lead to new products. Despite our recent acquisition of the Bioline Group, we cannot provide any assurance that we will consummate any additional acquisitions in the future nor can we provide any assurance that any acquisitions will accomplish these objectives. However, we expect that the potential for acquisitions will continue to provide opportunities for new revenues and earnings growth in the future. International Markets International markets are an important source of revenue and future growth opportunities for all of our operating segments. For all operating segments combined, international sales were $43,391 or 30% of consolidated fiscal 2010 sales, $41,438 or 28% of consolidated fiscal 2009 sales and $44,430 or 32% of consolidated fiscal 2008 sales. Domestic exports for our U.S. Diagnostics and Life Science operating segments were $17,851, $15,568 and $16,450 in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect to continue to look to international markets as a source of new revenues and growth in the future. See Notes 7 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information concerning sales, long-lived assets and deferred tax assets by country. Environmental We are a conditionally exempt, small quantity generator of hazardous waste and have a U.S. EPA identification number. We are in compliance with applicable portions of the federal and state hazardous waste regulations and have never been a party to any environmental proceeding. - 14 - Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or future results. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Risks Affecting Growth and Profitability of our Business We may be unable to develop new products and services or acquire products and services on favorable terms. The medical diagnostic and life science industries are characterized by ongoing technological developments and changing customer requirements. As such, our results of operations and continued growth depend, in part, on our ability in a timely manner to develop or acquire rights to, and successfully introduce into the marketplace, enhancements of existing products and services or new products and services that incorporate technological advances, meet customer requirements and respond to products developed by our competition. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in developing or acquiring such rights to products and services on a timely basis, or that such products and services will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we must regularly allocate considerable resources to research and development of new products, services and technologies. The research and development process generally takes a significant amount of time from design stage to product launch. This process is conducted in various stages. During each stage, there is a risk that we will not achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, and we may have to abandon a product in which we have invested substantial resources. During fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, we incurred $8,570, $8,428 and $6,183, respectively, in research and development expenses. We expect to continue to invest in our research and development activities. We may be unable to successfully integrate operations or to achieve expected cost savings from acquisitions we make. One of our main growth strategies is the acquisition of companies and/or products. Although additional acquisitions of companies and products may enhance the opportunity to increase net earnings over time, such acquisitions could result in greater administrative burdens, increased exposure to the uncertainties inherent in marketing new products and financial risks of additional operating costs. The principal benefits expected to result from any acquisitions we make will not be achieved fully unless we are able to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired entities with our operations and realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating these businesses into our existing businesses. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify and complete additional acquisitions on terms we consider favorable or that, if completed, will be successfully integrated into our operations. - 15 - Table of Contents Revenues for our diagnostic operating segments may be impacted by our reliance upon two key distributors, seasonal factors and sporadic outbreaks, and changing diagnostic market conditions. Key Distributors Our U.S. Diagnostic operating segment’s sales through two distributors were 57% and 58%, respectively, of the U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s total sales for fiscal 2010 and 2009, or 36% and 38%, respectively, of our consolidated sales for fiscal 2010 and 2009. These parties distribute our products and other laboratory products to end-user customers. The loss of either of these distributors could negatively impact our sales and results of operations unless suitable alternatives were timely found or lost sales to one distributor were absorbed by another distributor. Finding a suitable alternative on satisfactory terms may pose challenges in our industry’s competitive environment. As an alternative, we could expand our efforts to distribute and market our products directly. This alternative, however, would require substantial investment in additional sales, marketing and logistics resources, including hiring additional sales and customer service personnel, which would significantly increase our future selling, general and administrative expenses. In addition, buying patterns of these two distributors may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, potentially leading to uneven concentration levels on a quarterly basis. However, we expect that, over a 12-month period, these distributors’ orders would follow a normal buying pattern. Seasonal Factors and Sporadic Outbreaks Our principal business is the sale of a broad range of diagnostic test kits for common gastrointestinal, viral, upper respiratory and parasitic infectious diseases. Certain infectious diseases may be seasonal in nature, while others may be associated with sporadic outbreaks, such as foodborne illnesses, or pandemics such as H1N1 influenza. While we believe that the breadth of our diagnostic product lines reduces the risk that infections subject to seasonality and sporadic outbreaks will cause significant variability in diagnostic revenues, we can make no assurance that revenues will not be negatively impacted period over period by such factors. Changing Diagnostic Market Conditions Changes in the healthcare delivery system have resulted in major consolidation among reference laboratories and in the formation of multi-hospital alliances, reducing the number of institutional customers for diagnostic test products. Consolidation in the U.S. healthcare industry has also led to the creation of group purchasing organizations (GPOs) that aggregate buying power for hospital groups and put pressure on our selling prices. Due to such consolidation, we may not be able to enter into and/or sustain contractual or other marketing or distribution arrangements on a satisfactory commercial basis with institutional customers and GPOs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. - 16 - Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by healthcare reform legislation. Third-party payers for medical products and services, including state and federal governments, are increasingly concerned about escalating health care costs and can indirectly affect the pricing or the relative attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they will provide for diagnostic testing services. Following years of increasing pressure, during 2010 the U.S. government enacted comprehensive healthcare reform. At present, given the infancy of the enacted reform, we are unable to predict what effect the legislation might ultimately have on reimbursement rates for our products. If reimbursement amounts for diagnostic testing services are decreased in the future, such decreases may reduce the amount that will be reimbursed to hospitals or physicians for such services and consequently could place constraints on the levels of overall pricing, which could have a material effect on our sales and/or results of operations. In addition, this legislation established a 2.3% excise tax on the sales of medical devices that retail for more than one hundred dollars beginning in 2013. At existing sales levels in our U.S. markets, this would result in an annual excise tax in excess of $2,000 for our company. It is unknown at the present time whether this cost can be passed on to customers. Revenues for our Life Science operating segment may be impacted by customer concentrations and buying patterns. Our Life Science operating segment’s sales of purified antigens and reagents to two customers were 27% and 30%, respectively, of the Life Science operating segment’s total sales for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, or 5% of our consolidated sales for each of fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. For one of these two customers, we have exclusive supply agreements that have annual, automatic renewal provisions. Although we have a long-standing relationship with this customer, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to renew these supply agreements, which could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our Life Science operating segment has four other significant customers who purchase antigens, antibodies and reagents, which together comprised 13% and 10%, respectively, of the operating segment’s total sales for fiscal 2010 and 2009. Any significant alteration of buying patterns from these customers could adversely affect our period over period sales and results of operations. Revenues relating to research, development and manufacturing services for our Life Science operating segment are generated on a contract by contract basis. The nature of this business is such that each contract provides a unique product and/or service and corresponding revenue stream. Although we believe that future prospects for this business will generate targeted growth rates, there can be no assurance that future contracts will be secured, and if secured, will be profitable. - 17 - Table of Contents Intense competition could adversely affect our profitability. The markets for our products and services are characterized by substantial competition and rapid change. Hundreds of companies in the United States supply immunodiagnostic tests and purified reagents. These companies range from multinational healthcare entities, for which immunodiagnostics is one line of business, to small start-up companies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We cannot provide any assurance that our products and services will be able to compete successfully with the products and services of our competitors. Over the past two years, molecular tests have been introduced for the first time into the C. difficile market, which is a significant source of revenues for us. Our ability to continue to successfully compete in the C. difficile market is partly dependent upon the success and market acceptance of our own molecular-based product, illumigene® C. difficile, which we launched internationally in the third quarter of 2010 and domestically in the fourth quarter. We are dependent on international sales, and our financial results may be adversely impacted by foreign currency, regulatory or other developments affecting international markets. We sell products and services into approximately 60 countries. Approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2010 and approximately 28% of our net sales for fiscal 2009 were attributable to international markets. For fiscal 2010, 48% of our international sales were made in Euros and 49% were made in U.S. dollars, with the remaining 3% being a combination of the British pound and the Australian dollar, as a result of the acquisition of the Bioline Group. We are subject to the risks associated with fluctuations in the exchange rates for the Australian dollar, British pound and Euro to the U.S. dollar. We are also subject to other risks associated with international operations, including longer customer payment cycles, tariff regulations, requirements for export licenses, instability of foreign governments, and governmental requirements with respect to the importation and distribution of medical devices and immunodiagnostic and molecular biology reagents, all of which may vary by country. Risks Affecting our Manufacturing Operations We are subject to comprehensive regulation, and our ability to earn profits may be restricted by these regulations. Medical device diagnostics and the manufacture, sale and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies and reagents are highly regulated industries. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary governmental clearances or approvals or timely clearances or approvals to market future products in the United States and other countries. Costs and difficulties in complying with laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, the Centers for Disease Control or other regulators can result in unanticipated expenses and delays and interruptions to the sale of new and existing products. Contract manufacturing of proteins and other biologicals is regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. - 18 - Table of Contents Regulatory approval can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, making the timing and costs of approvals difficult to predict. The failure to comply with these regulations can result in delay in obtaining authorization to sell products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture or sell products, and other civil or criminal sanctions. Significant interruptions in production at our principal manufacturing facilities and/or third-party manufacturing facilities would adversely affect our business and operating results. Products and services manufactured at our Cincinnati, Ohio; Boca Raton, Florida; Memphis, Tennessee; Saco, Maine; London, England; Luckenwalde, Germany; and Sydney, Australia facilities comprised 74% of our Diagnostics revenues and 73% of our Life Science revenues. Our global supply of these products and services is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. In addition, we currently rely on a small number of third-party manufacturers to produce certain of our diagnostic products and product components. The operations of our facilities or these third-party manufacturing facilities could be adversely affected by power failures, natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, tornadoes or terrorist threats. Although we carry insurance to protect against certain business interruptions at our facilities, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any significant interruption in the Company’s or third-party manufacturing capabilities could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We are dependent on sole-source suppliers for certain critical components and products. A supply interruption could adversely affect our business. Our products are made from a wide variety of raw materials that are generally available from multiple sources of supply. However, certain critical raw materials and supplies required for the production of some of our principal products are available only from a single supplier. In addition, certain finished products, for which we act as a distributor, are available only from a single supplier. If these suppliers become unable or unwilling to supply the required raw materials or products, we would need to find another source, and perform additional development work and obtain regulatory approvals for the use of the alternative raw materials for our products. Completing that development and obtaining such approvals could require significant time and resources, and may not occur at all. Any disruption in the supply of these raw materials or finished products could have a material adverse affect on us. We have no individual products that represent greater than 10% of consolidated sales for which we have a sole source supplier. We sell certain respiratory tests for influenza and respiratory syncytial virus that we purchase from Alere Inc. These products represented 6%, 13% and 14%, respectively, of third-party sales for our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. While we do not have a long-term supply agreement with this vendor for these products, during fiscal 2008, we launched our own internally-developed products that compete with these products in the market. Two foodborne products sourced from another vendor accounted for 11%, 7% and 5% of third-party sales for our US Diagnostics operating segment in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. - 19 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Product Liability We may be unable to protect or obtain proprietary rights that we utilize or intend to utilize. In developing and manufacturing our products, we employ a variety of proprietary and patented technologies. In addition, we have licensed, and expect to continue to license, various complementary technologies and methods from academic institutions and public and private companies. We cannot provide any assurance that the technologies that we own or license provide protection from competitive threats or from challenges to our intellectual property. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in obtaining licenses or proprietary or patented technologies in the future. Product infringement claims by other companies could result in costly disputes and could limit our ability to sell our products. Litigation over intellectual property rights is prevalent in the diagnostic industry. As the market for diagnostics continues to grow and the number of participants in the market increases, we may increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims. It is possible that a third-party may claim infringement against us. If found to infringe, we may attempt to obtain a license to such intellectual property; however, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, if our products are found to infringe on third-party intellectual property, we may be required to pay damages for past infringement and lose the ability to sell certain products, causing our revenues to decrease. We currently carry intellectual property insurance that covers damages and defense costs from our potential infringement on other third-party patents at levels that we believe are commercially reasonable, although there is no assurance that it will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim could have a material adverse affect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation in the industry could have a material adverse affect on our business. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may have to limit or cease sales of our products. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical diagnostic products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit or cease sales of our products. We currently carry product liability insurance at a level we believe is commercially reasonable, although there is no assurance that it will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. In certain customer contracts, we indemnify third parties for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may cause us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnifications. In addition, a defect in the design or manufacture of our products could have a material adverse affect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injury and otherwise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim could have a material adverse affect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation in the industry could have a material adverse affect on our business. - 20 - Table of Contents Other Risks Affecting Our Business Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to attract, hire and retain key personnel. Our future success depends on our continued ability to attract, hire and retain highly qualified personnel, including our executive officers and scientific, technical, sales and marketing employees, and their ability to manage growth successfully. If such key employees were to leave and we were unable to obtain adequate replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our bank credit agreement imposes restrictions with respect to our operations. Our bank credit agreement contains a number of financial covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests. If we fail to comply with the obligations in the credit agreement, we would be in default under the credit agreement. If an event of default is not cured or waived, it could result in acceleration of any indebtedness under our credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. At the present time, no borrowings are outstanding under our bank credit agreement. We face risks related to global economic conditions. We currently generate significant operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets provides us with discretionary funding capacity for research and development and other strategic activities. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors, including financial institutions. If global economic conditions deteriorate significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products from a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets and/or temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of such shares without any future vote or action by the shareholders. The issuance of preferred stock under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Ohio corporation law contains provisions that may discourage takeover bids for our company that have not been negotiated with the board of directors. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital at a price favorable to us. - 21 - Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 