ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe recent improvement in the home building industry has stabilized and may not continue. A reversal of the recovery or a further slowdown in the home building industry would likely further adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We believe that, in fiscal 2012, the housing market began to recover from the significant slowdown that started in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year end October 31, 2005. During fiscal 2012 and the first nine months of fiscal 2013, we saw a strong recovery in the number of new sales contracts signed. We have witnessed a leveling of demand which began in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2013 and has continued into fiscal 2014. We believe this to be a temporary pause triggered by a rapid rise in interest rates and home prices and uncertainty from the political discord in Washington. The downturn in the home building industry, which we believe began in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2005, has been one of the most severe in U.S. history. The downturn, which we believe started with a decline in consumer confidence, a decline in home prices and an oversupply of homes available for sale, was exacerbated by, among other things, a decline in the overall economy, high unemployment, fear of job loss, volatility in the securities markets, the number of homes that are or will be available for sale due to foreclosures, an inability of home buyers to sell their current homes, a tightening of standards in the credit markets, and the direct and indirect impact of the turmoil in the mortgage loan market. All of these factors have contributed to the significant decline in the demand for new homes. As a result of this downturn, our sales and results of operations were adversely affected; we incurred significant inventory impairments and other write-offs; our gross margins declined significantly from historical levels; and we incurred substantial losses from operations, after write-offs, during fiscal 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008. We cannot predict the continuation of the recovery, nor can we provide assurance that should the recovery not continue, our responses, or the government’s attempts to address the poor economic conditions will be successful. If the recovery does not continue or the poor economic conditions persist or worsen, they may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live could reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Additional adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates and population growth, or an oversupply of homes for sale may reduce demand and depress prices for our homes and cause home buyers to cancel their agreements to purchase our homes. This, in turn, could continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Increases in cancellations of existing agreements of sale could have an adverse effect on our business.Our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our home buyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. We have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the home buyer does not complete the purchase. In some cases, however, a home buyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local law, the home buyer’s inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. If the current industry recovery does not continue or a further decline in economic conditions occurs, or if mortgage financing becomes less available, more home buyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.14The home building industry is highly competitive, and if others are more successful or offer better value to our customers, our business could decline.We operate in a very competitive environment, which is characterized by competition from a number of other home builders in each market in which we operate. We compete with large national and regional home building companies and with smaller local home builders for land, financing, raw materials and skilled management and labor resources. We also compete with the resale, also referred to as the “previously owned or existing” home market, which has increased significantly due to the large number of homes that are vacant, and homes that have been foreclosed on or will be foreclosed on, due to the current economic downturn. An oversupply of homes available for sale and the heavy discounting of home prices by some of our competitors could again adversely affect demand for our homes and the results of our operations. Increased competition could require us to further increase our selling incentives and/or reduce our prices. If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business could decline disproportionately to that of our competitors.If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, our interest rates are increased or our credit ratings are lowered, our business and results of operations may decline.Our business and results of operations depend substantially on our ability to obtain financing, whether from bank borrowings or from financing in the public debt markets. Our revolving credit facility matures in July 2018 and $2.32 billion of our senior notes become due and payable at various times from November 2013 through September 2032. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to replace existing financing or find additional sources of financing in the future.If we are not able to obtain suitable financing at reasonable terms or replace existing debt and credit facilities when they become due or expire, our costs for borrowings will likely increase and our revenues may decrease, or we could be precluded from continuing our operations at current levels.Increases in interest rates can make it more difficult and/or expensive for us to obtain the funds we need to operate our business. The amount of interest we incur, on our revolving bank credit facility fluctuates based on changes in short-term interest rates, the amount of borrowings we incur and the ratings that national rating agencies assign to our outstanding debt securities. Increases in interest rates generally and/or any downgrading in the ratings that national rating agencies assign to our outstanding debt securities could increase the interest rates we must pay on any subsequent issuances of debt securities, and any such ratings downgrade could also make it more difficult for us to sell such debt securities.If we cannot obtain letters of credit and surety bonds, our ability to operate may be restricted.We use letters of credit and surety bonds to secure our performance under various construction and land development agreements, escrow agreements, financial guarantees and other arrangements. Should banks decline to issue letters of credit or surety companies decline to issue surety bonds, our ability to operate could be significantly restricted and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.If our home buyers or our home buyers’ buyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations may decline.Our results of operations also depend on the ability of our potential home buyers to obtain mortgages for the purchase of our homes. The uncertainties in the mortgage markets and their impact on the overall mortgage market, including the tightening of credit standards and increased government regulation, could adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for a home purchase, thus preventing our potential home buyers from purchasing our homes. Moreover, future increases in the cost of home mortgage financing could prevent our potential home buyers from purchasing our homes. In addition, where our potential home buyers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a home from us, increases in mortgage costs and/or lack of availability of mortgages could prevent the buyers of our potential home buyers’ existing homes from obtaining the mortgages they need to complete their purchases, which would result in our potential home buyers’ inability to buy a home from us. Similar risks apply to those buyers whose contracts are in our backlog of homes to be delivered. If our home buyers, potential buyers or buyers of our home buyers’ current homes cannot obtain suitable financing, our sales and results of operations would be adversely affected.If our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, our home buyers will be required to find alternative financing.Generally, when our mortgage subsidiary closes a mortgage for a home buyer at a previously locked-in rate, it already has an agreement in place with an investor to acquire the mortgage following the closing. Should the resale market for our mortgages decline or the underwriting standards of our investors become more stringent, our ability to sell future mortgages could be adversely affected and we would either have to commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which 15could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations or our home buyers would be required to find an alternative source of financing. If our home buyers cannot obtain another source of financing in order to purchase our homes, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected.If land is not available at reasonable prices, our sales and results of operations could decrease.In the long term, our operations depend on our ability to obtain land at reasonable prices for the development of our residential communities. Due to the recent downturn in our business, our supply of available home sites, both owned and optioned, decreased from a peak of approximately 91,200 home sites controlled at April 30, 2006 to approximately 48,628 at October 31, 2013. In the future, changes in the general availability of land, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning regulations that limit housing density, and other market conditions may hurt our ability to obtain land for new residential communities at prices that will allow us to make a reasonable profit. If the supply of land appropriate for development of our residential communities becomes more limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the cost of land could increase and/or the number of homes that we are able to sell and build could be reduced.If the market value of our land and homes drops, our results of operations will likely decrease.The market value of our land and housing inventories depends on market conditions. We acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. If housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. Due to the significant decline in our business during 2006 to 2011, we recognized significant write-downs of our inventory. In fiscal 2012 and the first nine months of fiscal 2013, we have seen a recovery in our business, although not back to 2005 levels. We have witnessed a leveling of demand which began in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2013 and has continued into fiscal 2014. We believe this to be a temporary pause. If the current recovery in market conditions does not resume or market conditions worsen, we may have to recognize additional write-downs of our inventories and/or may have to sell land or homes at a loss.We participate in certain joint ventures where we may be adversely impacted by the failure of the joint venture or its participants to fulfill their obligations.We have investments in and commitments to certain joint ventures with unrelated parties. These joint ventures may borrow money to help finance their activities. In certain circumstances, the joint venture participants, including ourselves, are required to provide guarantees of certain obligations relating to the joint ventures. As a result of the 2006-2011 downturn in the home building industry, some of these joint ventures or their participants have or may become unable or unwilling to fulfill their respective obligations. In addition, in most of these joint ventures, we do not have a controlling interest and as a result, we are not able to require these joint ventures or their participants to honor their obligations or renegotiate them on acceptable terms. If the joint ventures or their participants do not honor their obligations, we may be required to expend additional resources or suffer losses, which could be significant.Government regulations and legal challenges may delay the start or completion of our communities, increase our expenses or limit our home building activities, which could have a negative impact on our operations.The approval of numerous governmental authorities must be obtained in connection with our development activities, and these governmental authorities often have broad discretion in exercising their approval authority. We incur substantial costs related to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Any increase in legal and regulatory requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional costs, or in some cases cause us to determine that the property is not feasible for development.Various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning building, zoning, sales and similar matters apply to and/or affect the housing industry. Governmental regulation affects construction activities as well as sales activities, mortgage lending activities and other dealings with home buyers. The industry also has experienced an increase in state and local legislation and regulations that limit the availability or use of land. Municipalities may also restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps. In some areas, municipalities may enact growth control initiatives, which will restrict the number of building permits available in a given year. In addition, we may be required to apply for additional approvals or modify our existing approvals because of changes in local circumstances or applicable law. If municipalities in which we operate take actions like these, it could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays, increasing our costs or limiting our ability to operate in those municipalities. Further, we may experience delays and increased expenses as a result of legal challenges to our proposed communities, whether brought by governmental authorities or private parties.16Our mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to licensing, lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and financing. The impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our home buyers’ cost of financing, increase our cost of doing business, as well as restrict our home buyers’ access to some types of loans.Increases in taxes or government fees could increase our costs, and adverse changes in tax laws could reduce demand for our homes.Increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space, road improvements, and/or provide low and moderate income housing, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, increases in local real estate taxes could adversely affect our potential home buyers who may consider those costs in determining whether to make a new home purchase and decide, as a result, not to purchase one of our homes. In addition, any changes in the income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate tax deductions or incentives to homeowners, such as a change limiting the deductibility of real estate taxes or interest on home mortgages, could make housing less affordable or otherwise reduce the demand for housing, which in turn could reduce our sales and hurt our results of operations.Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and other conditions could disrupt the development of our communities, which could harm our sales and results of operations.Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods and fires, can have serious effects on our ability to develop our residential communities. We also may be affected by unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological conditions or problems. Any of these adverse events or circumstances could cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities and, as a result, could harm our sales and results of operations.If we experience shortages or increased costs of labor and supplies or other circumstances beyond our control, there could be delays or increased costs in developing our communities, which could adversely affect our operating results.Our ability to develop residential communities may be adversely affected by circumstances beyond our control, including work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers; changes in laws relating to union organizing activity; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices of building materials. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or could increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising our home prices because the price for each home is typically set months prior to its delivery pursuant to the agreement of sale with the home buyer. If that happens, our operating results could be harmed.We are subject to one collective bargaining agreement that covers approximately 2% of our employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages due to strikes by unionized workers, but we cannot assure you that there will not be any work stoppages due to strikes or other job actions in the future. We use independent contractors, many of which are non-unionized, to construct our homes. At any given point in time, those subcontractors, who are not yet represented by a union, may be unionized.Product liability claims and litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly, which could adversely affect our business.As a home builder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the home building industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high, and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If the limits or coverages of our current and former insurance programs prove inadequate, or we are not able to obtain adequate, or reasonably priced, insurance against these types of claims in the future, or the amounts currently provided for future warranty or insurance claims are inadequate, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our financial results.17Our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor.Claims have been brought against us in various legal proceedings that have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Should such claims be resolved in an unfavorable manner or should additional claims be filed in the future, it is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected.We could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel.Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. Our operations could be adversely affected if key members of our senior management leave our employ. As a result of a decline in our stock price, previous retention mechanisms, such as equity awards, have diminished in value and, therefore, may become less effective as incentives for our senior management to continue to remain employed with us.Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws may negatively affect our operating results.We believe that our recorded tax balances are adequate; however, it is not possible to predict the effects of possible changes in the tax laws or changes in their interpretation and whether they could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We have filed claims for refunds of taxes paid in prior years based upon certain filing positions we believe are appropriate. If the Internal Revenue Service disagrees with these filing positions, we may have to return some of the refunds we have received.We may not be able to realize all of our deferred tax assets. At October 31, 2013, we had $341.7 million of federal and state deferred tax assets against which we have recognized valuation allowances of $55.7 million. Losses for federal income tax purposes can generally be carried forward for a period of 20 years. At October 31, 2013, the Company expects to utilize all prior year federal tax loss carryforwards resulting from losses incurred for federal income tax purposes during fiscal years 2011 and 2012 on its fiscal 2013 federal income tax return. In order to realize our net federal deferred tax assets, we must generate sufficient taxable income in the future.We also file tax returns in the various states in which we do business. Each state has its own statutes regarding the use of tax loss carryforwards. Some of the states in which we do business do not allow for the carry forward of losses while others allow for carry forwards for 5 years to 20 years. In order to realize our net state deferred tax assets, we must generate sufficient taxable income within the periods allowed by statutes to carry forward losses.In the construction of a high-rise building, whether a for-sale or a for-rental property, we incur significant costs before we can begin construction, sell and deliver the units to our customers or commence the collection of rent and recover our costs. We may be subject to delays in construction which could lead to higher costs which could adversely affect our operating results. Changing market conditions during the construction period could negatively impact selling prices and rents which could adversely affect our operating results. Before a high-rise building generates any revenues, we make material expenditures to acquire land, to obtain permits, development approvals and entitlements and to construct the building. It generally takes several years for us to acquire the land and construct, market and deliver units or lease units in a high-rise building. Completion times vary on a building-by-building basis depending on the complexity of the project, its stage of development when acquired, and the regulatory and community issues involved. As a result of these potential delays in the completion of a building, we face the risk that demand for housing may decline during the period and we may be forced to sell or lease units at a loss or for prices that generate lower profit margins than we anticipated. Furthermore, after a delay during construction, we may face increased costs due to construction costs that exceed our initial expectations as a result of inflation or other causes and/or asset carrying costs (including interest on funds used to acquire land construct the building) can be significant and can adversely affect our operating results. If values decline, we may also be required to make material write-downs of the book value of the building in accordance with GAAP . Our business is seasonal in nature, so our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate with the seasons; normally, a significant portion of our agreements of sale are entered into with customers in the winter and spring months. Construction of one of our traditional homes typically proceeds after signing the agreement of sale with our customer and can require 12 months or more to complete. Weather-related problems may occur in the late winter and early spring, delaying starts or closings or increasing costs and reducing profitability. In addition, delays in opening new communities or new sections of existing communities could have an adverse impact on home sales and revenues. Expenses are not incurred and recognized evenly throughout the year. Because of these factors, our quarterly operating results may be uneven and may be marked by lower revenues and earnings in some quarters than in others.18We invest in distressed loans and real estate related assets at significant discounts; however, if the real estate markets deteriorate significantly, we could suffer losses.We formed Gibraltar to invest in distressed real estate opportunities. Our investments have involved acquisitions of portfolios or interests in portfolios of distressed loans, some of which have been converted to real estate owned; however, these investments present many risks in addition to those inherent in normal lending activities, including the risk that the recovery of the United States real estate markets will not take place for many years and that the value of our investments are not recoverable. There is also the possibility that, if we cannot liquidate our investments as expected, we would be required to reduce the value at which they are carried on our financial statements.Decreases in the market value of our investments in marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.We have a significant amount of funds invested in marketable securities during the year, the market value of which is subject to changes from period to period. Decreases in the market value of our marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or any foreign country or increased domestic or international instability could significantly reduce the number of new contracts signed, increase the number of cancellations of existing contracts and/or increase our operating expenses which could adversely affect our business. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business.As part of our normal business activities, we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to interruption or damage from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (including through cyber-attack and data theft), catastrophic events such as fires, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes and usage errors. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are compromised, degraded, damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our home buyers and business partners), which could damage our reputation and require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues.We cannot be assured that the proposed Acquisition of Shapell will be completed.There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the Acquisition of Shapell. For example, the Acquisition may not be completed, or may not be completed in the time frame, on the terms or in the manner currently anticipated, as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things, the failure of one or more of the conditions to closing in the Purchase Agreement. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the Acquisition will be satisfied or waived or that other events will not intervene to delay or result in the failure to close the Acquisition. The Purchase Agreement may be terminated by the parties thereto under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, if the Acquisition has not been completed by March 31, 2014 (subject to extension in certain limited circumstances and exceptions). Any delay in closing or a failure to close could have a negative impact on our business.We may fail to realize the growth prospects and other benefits anticipated as a result of the acquisition of Shapell.The success of the Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining our businesses with those of Shapell. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Integrating Shapell’s operations will require significant efforts and expenditures. Our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures and the cost of integration may exceed our expectations. We may also be required to make unanticipated capital expenditures or investments in order to maintain, improve or sustain Shapell’s operations or take write-offs or impairment charges and may be subject to unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to Shapell and its business. We might experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand our business, and we might not be able to capitalize on expected business opportunities. We might be over-invested in the California market. If any of these factors limit our ability to integrate the businesses successfully or on a timely basis, the expectations of future results of operations following the Acquisition might not be met, including, without 19limitation, our belief that the Acquisition will be accretive to earnings in the first year, excluding transaction expenses, and the amount we expect to receive from Shapell’s homes under construction.In addition, we and Shapell have operated and, until the completion of the Acquisition, will continue to operate independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition and could harm our financial performance.We will incur significant transaction and acquisition-related integration costs in connection with the Acquisition.We are currently developing a plan to integrate the operations of Shapell after the completion of the Acquisition. Although we anticipate achieving synergies in connection with the Acquisition, we also expect to incur costs to implement such cost savings measures. We cannot currently identify the timing, nature and amount of all such charges. The significant transaction costs and acquisition-related integration costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such charges are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid. Although we believe that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. We have identified some, but not all, of the actions necessary to achieve our anticipated cost and operational savings. Accordingly, the cost and operational savings may not be achievable in our anticipated amount or timeframe or at all. We and Shapell will be subject to business uncertainties while the Acquisition is pending that could adversely affect our and its business.Uncertainty about the effect of the Acquisition on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us and Shapell. Although we and Shapell intend to take actions to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our and their ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Acquisition is completed and for a period of time thereafter. These uncertainties could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us and Shapell to seek to change existing business relationships with us and Shapell. Employee retention could be reduced during the pendency of the Acquisition, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. If, despite our and Shapell’s retention efforts, key employees depart because of concerns relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of the integration process or a desire not to remain with us, our business could be harmed.The Acquisition may be subject to receipt of consent or approval from governmental authorities that could delay or prevent the completion of the Acquisition or that could cause the abandonment of the Acquisition.To complete the Acquisition, we and Shapell may need to obtain approvals or consents from, or make filings with, certain applicable governmental authorities. While we and Shapell each believe that we will receive all required approvals for the Acquisition, there can be no assurance as to the receipt or timing of receipt of these approvals. If any such approvals are required, the receipt of such approvals may be conditional upon actions that the parties are not obligated to take under the Purchase Agreement and other related agreements, which could result in the termination of the Purchase Agreement by us or the seller, or, if such approvals are received, their terms could have a detrimental impact on us following the completion of the Acquisition. A substantial delay in obtaining any required authorizations, approvals or consents, or the imposition of unfavorable terms, conditions or restrictions contained in such authorizations, approvals or consents, could prevent the completion of the Acquisition or have an adverse effect on the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, thereby adversely impacting our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our proposed acquisition of Shapell may expose us to unknown liabilities.Because we have agreed to acquire all the outstanding equity interests of Shapell, our acquisition of Shapell will generally be subject to all of its liabilities, other than certain excluded liabilities as set forth in the Purchase Agreement. If there are unknown liabilities or other obligations, including contingent liabilities, our business could be materially affected. We may learn additional information about Shapell that adversely affects us, such as unknown liabilities, including liabilities under environmental laws, issues that could affect our ability to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or issues that could affect our ability to comply with other applicable laws. Also, Shapell may have less cash on hand at closing than we expect.20To reduce land concentration and outstanding borrowings, we expect to sell a significant amount of assets.Following the closing of the Acquisition, we expect to selectively sell approximately $500 million of assets to reduce land concentration and outstanding borrowings; however, the timing and size of any asset sale transactions will be dependent on market and other factors, some of which are outside of our control. We make no assurance that we will be able to complete asset sale transactions on attractive terms or at all.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.