ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or future results. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Risks Affecting Growth and Profitability of our Business We may be unable to develop new products and services or acquire products and services on favorable terms. The medical diagnostic and life science industries are characterized by ongoing technological developments and changing customer requirements. As such, our results of operations and continued growth depend, in part, on our ability in a timely manner to develop or acquire rights to, and successfully introduce into the marketplace, enhancements of existing products and services or new products and services that incorporate technological advances, meet customer requirements and respond to products developed by our competition. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in developing or acquiring such rights to products and services on a timely basis, or that such products and services will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. - 14 - Table of Contents In addition, we must regularly allocate considerable resources to research and development of new products, services and technologies. The research and development process generally takes a significant amount of time from design stage to product launch. This process is conducted in various stages. During each stage, there is a risk that we will not achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, and we may have to abandon a product in which we have invested substantial resources. We may be unable to successfully integrate operations or to achieve expected cost savings from acquisitions we make. One of our growth strategies is the acquisition of companies and/or products. Although additional acquisitions of companies and products may enhance the opportunity to increase net earnings over time, such acquisitions could result in greater administrative burdens, increased exposure to the uncertainties inherent in marketing new products and financial risks of additional operating costs. The principal benefits expected to result from any acquisitions we make will not be achieved fully unless we are able to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired entities with our operations and realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating these businesses into our existing businesses. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify and complete additional acquisitions on terms we consider favorable or that, if completed, will be successfully integrated into our operations. Revenues for our Diagnostics segment may be impacted by our reliance upon two key distributors in North America, seasonal factors and sporadic outbreaks, and changing diagnostic market conditions. Key Distributors Our Diagnostic segment’s sales through two U.S. distributors were 42% and 41%, respectively, of the Diagnostics segment’s total sales for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, or 32% and 31%, respectively, of our consolidated sales for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. These parties distribute our products and other laboratory products to end-user customers. The loss of either of these distributors could negatively impact our sales and results of operations unless suitable alternatives were timely found or lost sales to one distributor were absorbed by another distributor. Finding a suitable alternative on satisfactory terms may pose challenges in our industry’s competitive environment. As an alternative, we could expand our efforts to distribute and market our products directly. This alternative, however, would require substantial investment in additional sales, marketing and logistics resources, including hiring additional sales and customer service personnel, which would significantly increase our future selling, general and administrative expenses but would not necessarily result in lower net income levels. In addition, buying patterns of these two distributors may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, potentially leading to uneven concentration levels on a quarterly basis. - 15 - Table of Contents Seasonal Factors and Sporadic Outbreaks Our principal business is the sale of a broad range of diagnostic test kits for common gastrointestinal, viral, upper respiratory and parasitic infectious diseases. Certain infectious diseases may be seasonal in nature, while others may be associated with sporadic outbreaks, such as foodborne illnesses, or pandemics such as H1N1 influenza. While we believe that the breadth of our diagnostic product lines reduces the risk that infections subject to seasonality and sporadic outbreaks will cause significant variability in diagnostic revenues, we can make no assurance that revenues will not be negatively impacted period over period by such factors. Changing Diagnostic Market Conditions Changes in the U.S. healthcare delivery system have resulted in consolidation among reference laboratories and the formation of multi-hospital alliances, reducing the number of institutional customers for diagnostic test products. Consolidation in the U.S. healthcare industry has also led to the creation of group purchasing organizations (GPOs) and integrated delivery networks (IDNs) that aggregate buying power for hospital groups and put pressure on our selling prices. Due to such consolidation, we may not be able to enter into and/or sustain contractual or other marketing or distribution arrangements on a satisfactory commercial basis with institutional customers, GPOs and IDNs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We could be adversely affected by healthcare reform legislation. Third-party payers for medical products and services, including state, federal and foreign governments, are increasingly concerned about escalating health care costs and can indirectly affect the pricing or the relative attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they will provide for diagnostic testing services. Following years of increasing pressure, during 2010 the U.S. government enacted comprehensive healthcare reform. At present, given the early stages of the enacted reform, we are unable to predict what effect the legislation might ultimately have on reimbursement rates for our products. If reimbursement amounts for diagnostic testing services are decreased in the future, such decreases may reduce the amount that will be reimbursed to hospitals or physicians for such services and consequently could place constraints on the levels of overall pricing, which could have a material effect on our sales and/or results of operations. In addition, on January 1, 2013, the medical device tax established as part of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation became effective and as a result, the Company made its first required tax deposit near the end of January 2013. During fiscal 2013, the Company recorded approximately $1,300 of medical device tax expense, which is reflected as a component of cost of sales in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. - 16 - Table of Contents Revenues for our Life Science segment may be impacted by customer concentrations and buying patterns. Our Life Science segment’s sales of purified antigens and reagents to two diagnostics manufacturing customers were 17% and 19%, respectively, of the Life Science segment’s total sales for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, or 4% and 5%, respectively, of our consolidated sales for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. For one of these two customers, we have exclusive supply agreements that have annual, automatic renewal provisions. Although we have a long-standing relationship with this customer, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to renew these supply agreements, which could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. However, inclusion of our antigens and reagents in 510(k)-cleared products does, by nature of the related regulatory process, make them difficult to replace. Our Life Science segment has four other significant customers who purchase antigens, antibodies and reagents, which together comprised 8% and 9%, respectively, of the segment’s total sales for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. Any significant alteration of buying patterns from these customers could adversely affect our period over period sales and results of operations. Revenues relating to research, development and manufacturing services for our Life Science segment are generated on a contract by contract basis. The nature of this business is such that each contract provides a unique product and/or service and corresponding revenue stream. While this business has historically generated annual revenue of approximately $2,000 to $4,000, there can be no assurance that future contracts will be secured, and if secured, will be profitable. Intense competition could adversely affect our profitability. The markets for our products and services are characterized by substantial competition and rapid change. Hundreds of companies around the world supply diagnostic tests and purified reagents. These companies range from multinational healthcare entities, for which diagnostics is one line of business, to small start-up companies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We cannot provide any assurance that our products and services will be able to compete successfully with the products and services of our competitors. We depend on international sales, and our financial results may be adversely impacted by foreign currency, regulatory or other developments affecting international markets. We sell products and services into approximately 60 countries. Approximately 29% of our net sales for fiscal 2013 and approximately 31% of our net sales for fiscal 2012 were attributable to markets outside of North America. For fiscal 2013, approximately 40% of our international sales were made in Euros and 40% were made in U.S. dollars, with the remaining 20% being a combination of the British pound and Australian dollar. We are subject to the risks associated with fluctuations in the exchange rates for the Australian dollar, British pound, Euro and Singapore dollar to the U.S. dollar. We are also subject to other risks associated with international operations, including longer customer payment cycles, tariff regulations, requirements for export licenses, instability of foreign governments, and governmental requirements with respect to the importation and distribution of medical devices and immunodiagnostic and molecular biology reagents, all of which may vary by country. - 17 - Table of Contents Risks Affecting our Manufacturing Operations We are subject to comprehensive regulation, and our ability to earn profits may be restricted by these regulations. Medical device diagnostics and the manufacture, sale and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies and reagents are highly regulated industries. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary governmental clearances or approvals or timely clearances or approvals to market future products in the United States and other countries. Costs and difficulties in complying with laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, the Centers for Disease Control or other regulators can result in unanticipated expenses and delays and interruptions to the sale of new and existing products. Contract manufacturing of proteins and other biologicals is regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Regulatory approval can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, making the timing and costs of approvals difficult to predict. The failure to comply with these regulations can result in delay in obtaining authorization to sell products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture or sell products, and other civil or criminal sanctions. Significant interruptions in production at our principal manufacturing facilities and/or third-party manufacturing facilities would adversely affect our business and operating results. Products and services manufactured at facilities we own or lease comprised a majority of our revenues. Our global supply of these products and services is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. In addition, we currently rely on a small number of third-party manufacturers to produce certain of our diagnostic products and product components. The operations of our facilities or these third-party manufacturing facilities could be adversely affected by power failures, natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, tornadoes or terrorist threats. Although we carry insurance to protect against certain business interruptions at our facilities, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any significant interruption in the Company’s or third-party manufacturing capabilities could materially and adversely affect our operating results. - 18 - Table of Contents We depend on sole-source suppliers for certain critical raw materials and components, and finished products. A supply interruption could adversely affect our business. Raw Materials and Components Our diagnostic products are made from a wide variety of raw materials that are biological or chemical in nature, and that generally are available from multiple sources of supply. We sole-source certain raw materials and components due to FDA regulations, which make it time consuming and costly to switch raw materials and components in FDA cleared products. If certain suppliers fail to supply required raw materials or components, we will need to secure other sources which may require us to conduct additional development and testing and obtain regulatory approval. These activities require significant time and resources, and there is no assurance that new sources will be secured or regulatory approvals, if necessary, will be obtained. One third party manufactures our proprietary illumipro-10™ Incubator/Reader (instrument), a component of our illumigene molecular system. This instrument is manufactured exclusively for Meridian according to our specifications, with the cost of each instrument being relatively inexpensive. While other manufacturers for this type of instrument are available, we source solely from one manufacturer due to the FDA regulations and costs involved in clearing the system for marketing in the United States. If this third-party manufacturer fails to supply us with instruments, we will need to secure another manufacturer, and it may take as long as 12 months to transfer instrument manufacturing. As revenues for our illumigene molecular system accounted for $34,000 or 18% of consolidated sales for fiscal 2013, $23,000 or 13% for fiscal 2012 and $9,000 or 6% for fiscal 2011, an interruption in the manufacturing of this system could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additionally, one third party manufactures one certain reagent for use with our illumigene assays. While alternative suppliers exist, we elect to utilize this third party exclusively in order to maintain consistency in our materials, which is critical in complying with FDA regulatory requirements. Finished Products We outsource the manufacturing for certain finished diagnostic products to third parties. A disruption in the supply of these finished products could have a material adverse effect on our business until we find another supplier or bring manufacturing in house. Three products manufactured exclusively for us by two separate and independent companies accounted for 14%, 13% and 12% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Meridian owns all right and title to the FDA 510(k) clearances for these products. Activities undertaken by Meridian to reduce the risk of these sole-supplier arrangements include maintaining adequate inventory levels, supplier qualification procedures, supplier audits, site visits and frequent communication. Additionally, we have identified potential alternate suppliers. - 19 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Product Liability We may be unable to protect or obtain proprietary rights that we utilize or intend to utilize. In developing and manufacturing our products, we employ a variety of proprietary and patented technologies. In addition, we have licensed, and expect to continue to license, various complementary technologies and methods from academic institutions and public and private companies. We cannot provide any assurance that the technologies that we own or license provide protection from competitive threats or from challenges to our intellectual property. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in obtaining and retaining licenses or proprietary or patented technologies in the future. Product infringement claims by other companies could result in costly disputes and could limit our ability to sell our products. Litigation over intellectual property rights is prevalent in the diagnostic industry. As the market for diagnostics continues to grow and the number of participants in the market increases, we may increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims. It is possible that a third-party may claim infringement against us. If found to infringe, we may attempt to obtain a license to such intellectual property; however, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, if our products are found to infringe on third-party intellectual property, we may be required to pay damages for past infringement and lose the ability to sell certain products, causing our revenues to decrease. We currently carry intellectual property insurance that covers damages and defense costs from our potential infringement on certain other third-party patents at levels that we believe are commercially reasonable, although there is no assurance that it will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation in the industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may have to limit or cease sales of our products. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical diagnostic products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit or cease sales of our products. We currently carry product liability insurance at a level we believe is commercially reasonable, although there is no assurance that it will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. In certain customer contracts, we indemnify third-parties for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may cause us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnifications. In addition, a defect in the design or manufacture of our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injury and otherwise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation in the industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. - 20 - Table of Contents Other Risks Affecting Our Business Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to attract, hire and retain key personnel. Our future success depends on our continued ability to attract, hire and retain highly qualified personnel, including our executive officers and scientific, technical, sales and marketing employees, and their ability to manage growth successfully. If such key employees were to leave and we were unable to obtain adequate replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our bank credit agreement imposes restrictions with respect to our operations. Our bank credit agreement contains a number of financial covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests. If we fail to comply with the obligations in the credit agreement, we would be in default under the credit agreement. If an event of default is not cured or waived, it could result in acceleration of any indebtedness under our credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. At the present time, no borrowings are outstanding under our bank credit agreement. We face risks related to global economic conditions. We currently generate significant operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets provides us with discretionary funding capacity for research and development and other strategic activities. However, as an enterprise with global operations and markets, our operations and financial performance are in part dependent upon global economic conditions, and we could be negatively impacted by a global, regional or national economic crisis, including sovereign risk in the event of deterioration in the credit worthiness of or a default by local governments. We are particularly susceptible to the economic conditions in countries where government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for healthcare, including those countries within the European Union that are reducing their public expenditures in an effort to achieve cost savings. The uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors, including financial institutions. As such, if global economic conditions deteriorate significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products from a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets and/or temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. While to-date such factors have not had a significant negative impact on our results or operations, we continue to monitor and plan for the potential impact of these global economic factors. Approximately $3,500 of our accounts receivable at September 30, 2013 is due from Italian hospital customers whose funding ultimately comes from the Italian government, which is down from approximately $4,600 at September 30, 2012. - 21 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of such shares without any future vote or action by the shareholders. The issuance of preferred stock under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Ohio corporation law contains provisions that may discourage takeover bids for our company that have not been negotiated with the board of directors. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital at a price favorable to us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 