Risk Factors. In addition to the risk factors discussed herein, we are also subject to additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “Meridian,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or “our company” refer to Meridian Bioscience, Inc. and its subsidiaries. In the discussion that follows, all dollars and shares are in thousands (both tables and text), except per share data. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Meridian is a fully-integrated life science company with principal businesses in (i) the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits, primarily for certain gastrointestinal, viral, respiratory and parasitic infectious diseases; (ii) the manufacture and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies, PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides, competent cells and bioresearch reagents used by researchers and other diagnostic manufacturers; and (iii) the contract development and manufacture of proteins and other biologicals under cGMP conditions for use by biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in research for new drugs and vaccines. The company was incorporated in Ohio in 1976. Our principal corporate offices are located in Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. Our website is www.meridianbioscience.com. We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto, free of charge through this website, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material has been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports may also be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, phone number 1-800-732-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site containing these filings and other information regarding Meridian at www.sec.gov. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. - 4 - Table of Contents Operating Segments Our reportable operating segments are U.S. Diagnostics, European Diagnostics and Life Science. The U.S. Diagnostics operating segment consists of manufacturing operations in Cincinnati, Ohio, and the sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits in the U.S. and countries outside of Europe, Africa and the Middle East. The European Diagnostics operating segment consists of the sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. The Life Science operating segment consists of manufacturing operations in Memphis, Tennessee; Saco, Maine; Boca Raton, Florida; London, England; Luckenwalde, Germany; and Sydney, Australia, and the sale and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies, PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides, competent cells and bioresearch reagents domestically and abroad. The Life Science operating segment also includes the contract development and manufacture of proteins and other biologicals for use by biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in research for new drugs and vaccines. Financial information for Meridian’s operating segments is included in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. Our primary source of revenues continues to be diagnostic products, which represents 76% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2011. Our diagnostic products provide accuracy, simplicity and speed, enable early diagnosis and treatment of common, acute medical conditions, and provide for better patient outcomes at reduced costs. We target diagnostics for disease states that (i) are acute conditions where rapid diagnosis impacts patient outcomes; (ii) have opportunistic demographic and disease profiles; (iii) are underserved by current diagnostic products; and (iv) have difficult sample handling requirements. This approach has allowed us to establish significant market share in our target disease states. The acquisition of the Bioline group of companies (collectively the “Bioline Group”) in July 2010 dramatically increased the revenue base for our Life Science operating segment; revenues for our Life Science operating segment represents 24% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2011. U.S. Diagnostics Operating Segment Overview Our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s business focuses on the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits, primarily for certain gastrointestinal, viral, respiratory and parasitic infectious diseases. In addition to diagnostic test kits, products also include transport media that store and preserve specimen samples from patient collection to laboratory testing. Third-party sales for this operating segment were $97,000, $92,000 and $99,000 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflecting a three-year compound annual growth rate of 3%. As of September 30, 2011, our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment had approximately 290 employees. Our diagnostic test kits utilize immunodiagnostic and molecular technologies, which test samples of stool, blood, urine and other body fluids or tissue for the presence of specific infectious diseases. Specific immunodiagnostic technologies used in our diagnostic test kits include enzyme immunoassay, immunofluorescence, particle agglutination/aggregation, immunodiffusion, complement fixation and chemical stains. Additionally, during 2010 we introduced into the marketplace our new molecular amplification assay, illumigene® C.difficile. The illumigene® molecular amplification assay detects the presence of the toxin producing region from the C. difficile DNA, and provides highly accurate results in under an hour. During 2011, we continued with the development of additional tests for the illumigene® molecular platform, submitting illumigene® Group B Streptococcus (GBS) to the FDA for approval and we expect to add three additional tests to the platform over the next 12 months — tests for Group A Streptococcus, Mycoplasma pneumoniae and Bordetella pertussis/ parapertussis. - 5 - Table of Contents Our diagnostic products are used principally in the detection of gastrointestinal diseases, such as antibiotic-associated diarrhea (C. difficile), pediatric diarrhea (Rotavirus and Adenovirus) and stomach ulcers (H. pylori); foodborne diseases such as Enterohemorrhagic E. coli infection (EHEC) and Campylobacter jejuni (Campy); viral diseases, such as Mononucleosis, Herpes Simplex, Chicken Pox and Shingles (Varicella-Zoster) and Cytomegalovirus (organ transplant infections); parasitic diseases, such as Giardiasis, Cryptosporidiosis and Lyme; and respiratory diseases, such as Pneumonia, Valley Fever, Influenza and Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV). The primary markets and customers for these products are reference laboratories and hospitals. Market Trends The global market for infectious disease tests continues to expand as new disease states are identified, new therapies become available, and worldwide standards of living and access to health care improve. More importantly, within this market there is a continuing shift from conventional testing, which requires highly trained personnel and lengthy turnaround times for test results, to more technologically advanced testing, which can be performed by less highly trained personnel and completed in minutes or hours. The increasing pressures to contain total health care costs have accelerated the increased use of diagnostic testing. With rapid and accurate diagnoses of infectious diseases, physicians can pinpoint appropriate therapies quickly, leading to faster recovery, shorter hospital stays and lower treatment expense. In addition, these pressures have led to a major consolidation among reference laboratories and the formation of multi-hospital group purchasing organizations that have reduced the number of institutional customers for diagnostic products and resulted in changes in buying practices. Specifically, multi-year exclusive or primary source marketing or distribution contracts with institutional customers have become more common, replacing less formal distribution arrangements. Sales and Marketing Our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s sales and distribution network in the U.S. consists of a direct sales force complemented by independent distributors. The use of independent distributors in the U.S. allows our products to reach any bed-size healthcare facility and also provides our customers the option to purchase our products direct or through distribution along with other supplies. For our export markets in Asia, Canada and South America, we use independent distributors. Two independent distributors in the U.S. accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009: Cardinal Healthcare Corporation and Fisher Scientific. Our sales to Cardinal were approximately $30,000, $34,000 and $38,000 during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our sales to Fisher were approximately $18,000, $18,000 and $19,000 during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. - 6 - Table of Contents Consolidation of the U.S. healthcare industry is expected to continue and potentially affect our customers. Industry consolidation puts pressure on pricing and aggregates buying power. In response, we have looked to multi-year supply agreements with group purchasing organizations and major reference laboratories to stabilize pricing. Products and Markets We have expertise in the development and manufacture of products based on multiple core diagnostic technologies, each of which enables the visualization and identification of antigen/antibody reactions for specific pathogens. Our product technologies include DNA amplification, enzyme immunoassay, immunofluorescence, particle agglutination/aggregation, immunodiffusion, complement fixation and chemical stains. As a result, we are able to develop and manufacture diagnostic tests in a variety of formats that satisfy customer needs and preferences, whether in a hospital, commercial or reference laboratory, or alternate site location. Our product offering consists of approximately 140 medical diagnostic products. Sales within our focus product families — C. difficile, foodborne and H. pylori — accounted for 58%, 51% and 48% of our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s third-party sales during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These same product families accounted for 44%, 43% and 42% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Clostridium difficile C. difficile, a serious hospital acquired bacterial infection, is our largest product family, generating approximately $30,000 in global sales for fiscal 2011, or 10% growth from fiscal 2010. This product family has experienced significant competition over the last three years from new technologies, including molecular testing platforms. Our illumigene® molecular C. difficile product has now been available in markets around the world for over 12 months. Sales of this product were approximately $9,000 and $500 in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have just over 650 placements of illumigene® units worldwide to date, with approximately 90% of these installed in the U.S. At the present time, it generally takes a customer 90 days from purchase order placement to become revenue producing — a timeframe we are continually working to reduce. Our illumigene® molecular C. difficile product has restored the C. difficile product family to positive sales growth and has allowed us to begin to recover lost test volume from our Toxin products. - 7 - Table of Contents Our major competitors in this product family are Cepheid and Becton Dickinson. We believe that we have two advantages to our competition. First, our instrumentation package has a smaller footprint and significantly lower cost than those of Cepheid or Becton Dickinson, with no capital outlay required. We believe that this advantage allows our product to fit into virtually any size hospital or reference laboratory. Second, we believe that the breadth of our C. difficile product offerings represents an advantage. With the launch of our molecular product and recent FDA clearance and submission activities related to our common antigen C. difficile products — Premier C. difficile GDH received FDA clearance in May 2011, and ImmuoCard C. difficile GDH was submitted to the FDA in July 2011 — we believe we are in a unique position to offer a full line of testing solutions to our clinical laboratory customers around the world to counter the competitive pressures surrounding this market. Additionally, we hold the only FDA-approved claim for C. difficile testing in the pediatric population. Foodborne Our foodborne product family achieved approximately $18,000 in global sales for fiscal 2011, or growth of 36%. Our foodborne products include tests for Enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) and Campylobacter jejuni (Campy). Approximately 95% of our foodborne product sales are in the U.S. In the U.S. market, we believe that there are potentially 20 million annual stool cultures that make up the total available market. At present, we believe that we have a 13% market share for EHEC and a 3% market share for Campy. We believe that the primary competition for our foodborne products is laboratory culture methods. We believe that our products have two principal advantages versus culture methods. The first principal advantage is test accuracy. Independent evaluations have shown our products to have higher sensitivity than culture methods. The second principal advantage is improved work flow of the testing process, resulting in significantly shortened time to test result. Our single-use rapid products provide a test result in approximately 20 minutes, whereas culture results can take up to 24-48 hours. Time to test result can be a critical factor in the physician’s choice of therapies, as the mortality rate for EHEC is estimated to be 5% to 10%. Helicobacter pylori H. pylori, a bacterium found in the stomach, is a major cause of peptic ulcers and is linked to duodenal ulcers and stomach cancer. H. pylori represents our second largest product family, generating approximately $22,000 in global sales for 2011, or 9% growth. We offer both antibody and direct antigen tests in alternative formats (single-use and high volume batch). Our major competition in this product family is test-method alternatives, such as serology and urea breath, and physicians who prescribe symptom-relieving medications without testing. In the U.S., our strategy has been to partner with managed care companies to promote the health and economic benefits of a test and treat strategy, and to move physician behavior away from serology-based testing toward direct antigen testing. In the U.S. market, we believe that there are potentially 30 million annual tests, of which we believe that we currently have a 5% market share. In European markets, we face a greater number of competitive products for this product family. As a result, pricing pressures have led to slightly negative sales growth for fiscal 2011 for our European Diagnostics operating segment. - 8 - Table of Contents Research and Development Our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s research and development organization has expertise in biochemistry, immunology, mycology, bacteriology, virology, parasitology and molecular biology. Research and development expenses for the U.S. Diagnostics operating segment for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 were approximately $7,000, $6,000 and $7,000, respectively. This research and development organization focuses its activities on new applications for our existing technologies, improvements to existing products and development of new technologies. Research and development efforts may occur in-house or with collaborative partners. We believe that new product development is a key source for sustaining revenue growth. The products within our C. difficile, foodborne, and H. pylori product families were either developed solely in-house, or via collaboration with outside partners. The introduction of our molecular amplification assay, illumigene® C.difficile, introduced in markets around the world over 12 months ago, followed nearly four years of exploration and development of a molecular-based diagnostic testing technology to complement our existing antigen/antibody-based testing technologies. As previously noted, the illumigene® molecular amplification assay detects the presence of a key toxin producing region from the C. difficile DNA, and provides highly accurate results in under an hour. We believe this molecular assay uniquely positions us in the market to provide a full line of testing solutions that will meet the needs of both our domestic and international customers and, as a result, during 2011 we have continued with the development of additional tests for the illumigene® molecular platform, submitting illumigene® Group B Streptococcus (GBS) to the FDA for approval and we expect to add three additional tests to the platform over the next 12 months — tests for Group A Streptococcus, Mycoplasma pneumoniae and Bordetella pertussis/parapertussis. We currently hold registrations to sell illumigene® in 37 countries, including the U.S., with registrations pending in 5 additional countries. During fiscal 2008, we launched our first products under our patented TRU rapid test technology. The design of this technology enhances laboratory safety by containing the specimen in a closed system during testing as recommended by CDC guidelines. TRU tests also use less space than other immunoassay technologies, which is an advantage in space-constrained clinical laboratories. Products using this technology include TRU FLU®, TRU RSV®, TRU EBV-M® and TRU EBV-G®. TRU Legionella is the latest addition to the TRU line of products. Legionella was launched in ex-U.S. markets during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, and is expected to be available in the U.S. market in fiscal 2012. Manufacturing Our immunodiagnostic and molecular products require the production of highly specific and sensitive antigens, antibodies and primers. While we produce substantially all of our own requirements including monoclonal antibodies and polyclonal antibodies, plus a variety of fungal, bacterial and viral antigens, currently a number of the raw materials used in our illumigene® molecular product are purchased from outside vendors. We believe that we have sufficient manufacturing and sourcing capacity for anticipated growth in the near term. - 9 - Table of Contents Intellectual Property, Patents and Licenses We own or license U.S. and foreign patents, most of which are for products manufactured by our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment. Sales of these products are as follows: Number of Product Family products % of consolidated sales 2011 2010 C. difficile 1 6 % 0 % H. pylori 2 13 % 13 % Respiratory 2 2 % 4 % Other 6 1 % 2 % Total patented products 11 22 % 19 % The patent for the C. difficile product expires in 2020; the patents for the two H. pylori products expire between 2016 and 2017; and the patents for the two respiratory products expire in 2022 and 2027. The remaining six patented products for which we own or license patents are spread over three product families. In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who successfully replicate our production and manufacturing technologies and processes. Our employees are required to execute confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements designed to protect our proprietary products. Government Regulation Our diagnostic products are regulated by the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) as “devices” pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). Under the FDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three classes (i.e., Class I, II or III). Class I and II devices are not expressly approved by the FDA, but, instead, are “cleared” for marketing. Class III devices generally must receive “pre-market approval” from the FDA as to safety and effectiveness. Each of the diagnostic products currently marketed by us in the United States has been cleared by the FDA pursuant to the 510(k) clearance process or is exempt from such requirements. We believe that most, but not all, products under development will be classified as Class I or II medical devices and, in the case of Class II devices, will be eligible for 510(k) clearance; however, we can make no assurances in this regard. Sales of our diagnostic products in foreign countries are subject to foreign government regulation, the requirements of which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval and the requirements may differ. Meridian’s Cincinnati manufacturing facility is certified to ISO 13485. Seasonal Factors and Sporadic Outbreaks Our principal business is the sale of a broad range of diagnostic test kits for common gastrointestinal, viral, upper respiratory and parasitic infectious diseases. Certain infectious diseases may be seasonal in nature, while others may be associated with sporadic outbreaks, such as foodborne illnesses, or pandemics such as H1N1 influenza. While we believe that the breadth of our diagnostic product lines reduces the risk that infections subject to seasonality and sporadic outbreaks will cause significant variability in diagnostic revenues, we can make no assurance that revenues will not be impacted period over period by such factors. - 10 - Table of Contents European Diagnostics Operating Segment Our European Diagnostics operating segment’s business focuses on the sale and distribution of diagnostic test kits, manufactured both by our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment and by third-party vendors. Approximately 66% of third-party sales for fiscal 2011 for this operating segment were products purchased from our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment. Third-party sales for this operating segment were approximately $24,000, $24,000 and $26,000 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of September 30, 2011, the European Diagnostics operating segment had approximately 40 employees. Our European Diagnostics operating segment’s sales and distribution network consists of direct sales forces in Belgium, France, Holland and Italy, and independent distributors in other European countries, Africa and the Middle East. The European Diagnostics operating segment maintains a distribution center near Milan, Italy. The primary markets and customers for this operating segment are hospitals and reference laboratories. The European Diagnostics operating segment’s functional currency is the Euro. The translation of Euros into U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Life Science Operating Segment Overview Our Life Science operating segment’s business focuses on the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies, PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides, competent cells and bioresearch reagents used by researchers and other diagnostic companies, as well as contract development and manufacturing services under clinical cGMP conditions. Third-party sales for this operating segment were approximately $38,000, $27,000 and $23,000 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of September 30, 2011, our Life Science operating segment had approximately 195 employees. Most of the revenue for our Life Science operating segment currently comes from the manufacture, sale and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies, PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides, competent cells and bioresearch reagents used by researchers and other diagnostic companies. During fiscal 2011, 15% of third-party sales for this segment were to two customers. For one of these two customers, we have exclusive supply agreements that have annual, automatic renewal provisions. We have a long-standing relationship with this customer; and although there can be no assurances, we intend to renew these supply agreements in the normal course of business. - 11 - Table of Contents In July 2010, we acquired the Bioline Group and in so doing added important technologies and capabilities to our Life Science business and complemented our expanding life science product lines sold into the research, pharmaceutical and commercial diagnostic markets. In addition to technological capabilities, Bioline also added proprietary know-how in the production of high-volume nucleotides and PCR enzymes, as well as a growing portfolio of intellectual property in the form of patents and licenses. The Bioline Group contributed sales of approximately $15,000 and $2,000 in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. Our clinical cGMP protein production facility in Memphis, Tennessee serves as an enabling technology for process development and large-scale manufacturing for biologicals used in new drugs and vaccines. The size of the facility is intended to accommodate manufacturing requirements for Phase I and Phase II clinical trials. The customer base for this aspect of our Life Science business includes biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as government agencies, such as the National Institutes of Health. Revenues for our Life Science operating segment, in the normal course of business, may be affected from quarter to quarter by the timing and nature of arrangements for contract services work, which may have longer production cycles than our immunodiagnostic and molecular biology products, as well as buying patterns of major customers. See Note 1 (i) to the Consolidated Financial Statements herein for revenue recognition policies. Our revenues for contract services were approximately $3,000, $2,000 and $2,000 in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As a result of the order volume trends in bulk antigens, antibodies and reagents, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we announced the closure of our Saco, Maine facility, and began the transfer of our manufacturing operations from this facility to our Memphis, Tennessee facility. We expect the consolidation of manufacturing operations in Memphis will provide a lower overall cost structure and should be completed during the second fiscal quarter of 2012. Total costs to complete the consolidation of facilities are expected to be approximately $2,200, consisting of fixed asset impairments, inventory impairments, stay bonuses and moving costs, among other similar items. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we recognized $1,057 of these costs, and the balance will be recognized during fiscal 2012, primarily during the first half of the fiscal year. Products, Markets and Growth Strategies Our Life Science operating segment’s businesses have been assembled via acquisitions (BIODESIGN International in fiscal 1999, Viral Antigens in fiscal 2000, OEM Concepts in fiscal 2005, and the Bioline Group in July 2010). Historically, these businesses were run autonomously. In recent years, growth strategies have been developed around sales and marketing integration, new product development integration, and the acquisition of complementary product lines. - 12 - Table of Contents Immunodiagnostic products such as antibodies, antigens and reagents are marketed primarily to diagnostic manufacturing customers as a source of raw materials for their products, or as an outsourced step in their manufacturing processes. These products are typically sold in bulk quantities, and may also be custom-designed for a particular manufacturer’s requirements. Sales efforts are focused on multi-year supply agreements in order to provide stability in volumes and pricing. We believe this benefits both us and our customers. Molecular biology products such as PCR/qPCR reagents, nucleotides and competent cells are marketed primarily to research customers. These products are typically sold in small quantities. Research and Development Research and development expenses for our Life Science operating segment for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 were approximately $3,000, $2,000 and $1,000, respectively. This research and development organization is heavily involved in vaccine development and production activities for our cGMP facility. Manufacturing and Government Regulation The cGMP clinical grade proteins that are produced in our Memphis facility are intended to be used as “injectibles,” and, as such, they are produced under cGMP Regulations for Biologics and Human Drugs under the auspices of the FDA. Approval and licensing, following clinical trials, of these products is the responsibility of the applicant, who owns the rights to each protein. Typically, the customer is the applicant, not Meridian Life Science. The Meridian Life Science facilities are ISO 9001:2008 certified and EC 1069:2009 approved, where appropriate and as required. Competition Diagnostics The market for diagnostic tests is a multi-billion dollar international industry, which is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are larger than we are with greater financial, research, manufacturing and marketing resources. Important competitive factors for Meridian’s products include product quality, price, ease of use, customer service and reputation. In a broader sense, industry competition is based upon scientific and technological capability, proprietary know-how, access to adequate capital, the ability to develop and market products and processes, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, and the availability of patent protection. To the extent that our product lines do not reflect technological advances, our ability to compete in those product lines could be adversely affected. The diagnostic test industry is highly fragmented and segmented. Of importance in the industry are mid-sized medical diagnostic specialty companies, like Meridian, that offer multiple, broad product lines and have the ability to deliver new, high value products quickly to the marketplace. Among the companies with which we compete in the marketing of one or more of our products are the diagnostic product divisions of Abbott Laboratories Inc., Becton, Dickinson and Company, Thermo Fisher and Siemens. We also compete with smaller companies such as Cepheid, Quidel Corporation and Alere, Inc. - 13 - Table of Contents Life Science The market for bulk biomedical reagents is highly competitive. Important competitive factors include product quality, price, customer service, and reputation. We face competitors, many of which have greater financial, research and development, sales and marketing, and manufacturing resources, and where sole-source supply arrangements do not exist. From time to time, customers may choose to manufacture their biomedical reagents in-house rather than purchase from outside vendors such as Meridian. The market for contract manufacturing in a validated cGMP facility, such as our Memphis facility, is also competitive. Important competitive factors include reputation, customer service and price. Although the product application for this facility was built from our existing expertise in cell culture manufacturing techniques, we face competitors with greater experience in contract manufacturing in a clinical cGMP environment. Acquisitions Acquisitions have played an important role in the growth of our businesses. Our acquisition objectives include, among other things, (i) enhancing product offerings; (ii) improving product distribution capabilities; (iii) providing access to new markets; and/or (iv) providing access to key biologicals or new technologies that lead to new products. Although we cannot provide any assurance that we will consummate any additional acquisitions in the future, nor can we provide any assurance that any acquisitions will accomplish these objectives, we expect that the potential for acquisitions will continue to provide opportunities for revenues and earnings growth in the future. International Markets International markets are an important source of revenue and future growth opportunities for all of our operating segments. For all operating segments combined, international sales were approximately $53,000 or 33% of consolidated fiscal 2011 sales, $43,000 or 30% of consolidated fiscal 2010 sales and $41,000 or 28% of consolidated fiscal 2009 sales. We expect to continue to look to international markets as a source of new revenues and growth in the future. See Notes 7 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information concerning sales, long-lived assets and deferred tax assets by country. Environmental We are a conditionally exempt, small quantity generator of hazardous waste and have a U.S. EPA identification number. We are in compliance with applicable portions of the federal and state hazardous waste regulations and have never been a party to any environmental proceeding. - 14 - Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or future results. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Risks Affecting Growth and Profitability of our Business We may be unable to develop new products and services or acquire products and services on favorable terms. The medical diagnostic and life science industries are characterized by ongoing technological developments and changing customer requirements. As such, our results of operations and continued growth depend, in part, on our ability in a timely manner to develop or acquire rights to, and successfully introduce into the marketplace, enhancements of existing products and services or new products and services that incorporate technological advances, meet customer requirements and respond to products developed by our competition. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in developing or acquiring such rights to products and services on a timely basis, or that such products and services will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we must regularly allocate considerable resources to research and development of new products, services and technologies. The research and development process generally takes a significant amount of time from design stage to product launch. This process is conducted in various stages. During each stage, there is a risk that we will not achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, and we may have to abandon a product in which we have invested substantial resources. We may be unable to successfully integrate operations or to achieve expected cost savings from acquisitions we make. One of our main growth strategies is the acquisition of companies and/or products. Although additional acquisitions of companies and products may enhance the opportunity to increase net earnings over time, such acquisitions could result in greater administrative burdens, increased exposure to the uncertainties inherent in marketing new products and financial risks of additional operating costs. The principal benefits expected to result from any acquisitions we make will not be achieved fully unless we are able to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired entities with our operations and realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating these businesses into our existing businesses. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify and complete additional acquisitions on terms we consider favorable or that, if completed, will be successfully integrated into our operations. - 15 - Table of Contents Revenues for our diagnostic operating segments may be impacted by our reliance upon two key distributors, seasonal factors and sporadic outbreaks, and changing diagnostic market conditions. Key Distributors Our U.S. Diagnostic operating segment’s sales through two distributors were 49% and 57%, respectively, of the U.S. Diagnostics operating segment’s total sales for fiscal 2011 and 2010, or 30% and 36%, respectively, of our consolidated sales for fiscal 2011 and 2010. These parties distribute our products and other laboratory products to end-user customers. The loss of either of these distributors could negatively impact our sales and results of operations unless suitable alternatives were timely found or lost sales to one distributor were absorbed by another distributor. Finding a suitable alternative on satisfactory terms may pose challenges in our industry’s competitive environment. As an alternative, we could expand our efforts to distribute and market our products directly. This alternative, however, would require substantial investment in additional sales, marketing and logistics resources, including hiring additional sales and customer service personnel, which would significantly increase our future selling, general and administrative expenses. In addition, buying patterns of these two distributors may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, potentially leading to uneven concentration levels on a quarterly basis. Seasonal Factors and Sporadic Outbreaks Our principal business is the sale of a broad range of diagnostic test kits for common gastrointestinal, viral, upper respiratory and parasitic infectious diseases. Certain infectious diseases may be seasonal in nature, while others may be associated with sporadic outbreaks, such as foodborne illnesses, or pandemics such as H1N1 influenza. While we believe that the breadth of our diagnostic product lines reduces the risk that infections subject to seasonality and sporadic outbreaks will cause significant variability in diagnostic revenues, we can make no assurance that revenues will not be negatively impacted period over period by such factors. Changing Diagnostic Market Conditions Changes in the healthcare delivery system have resulted in major consolidation among reference laboratories and in the formation of multi-hospital alliances, reducing the number of institutional customers for diagnostic test products. Consolidation in the U.S. healthcare industry has also led to the creation of group purchasing organizations (GPOs) that aggregate buying power for hospital groups and put pressure on our selling prices. Due to such consolidation, we may not be able to enter into and/or sustain contractual or other marketing or distribution arrangements on a satisfactory commercial basis with institutional customers and GPOs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. - 16 - Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by healthcare reform legislation. Third-party payers for medical products and services, including state and federal governments, are increasingly concerned about escalating health care costs and can indirectly affect the pricing or the relative attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they will provide for diagnostic testing services. Following years of increasing pressure, during 2010 the U.S. government enacted comprehensive healthcare reform. At present, given the infancy of the enacted reform, we are unable to predict what effect the legislation might ultimately have on reimbursement rates for our products. If reimbursement amounts for diagnostic testing services are decreased in the future, such decreases may reduce the amount that will be reimbursed to hospitals or physicians for such services and consequently could place constraints on the levels of overall pricing, which could have a material effect on our sales and/or results of operations. In addition, this legislation established a 2.3% excise tax on the sales of medical devices beginning in 2013. At existing sales levels in our U.S. markets, this would result in an annual excise tax in excess of $2,000 for our company. It is unknown at the present time whether this cost can be passed on to customers. Revenues for our Life Science operating segment may be impacted by customer concentrations and buying patterns. Our Life Science operating segment’s sales of purified antigens and reagents to two customers were 15% and 27%, respectively, of the Life Science operating segment’s total sales for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, or 4% and 5%, respectively, of our consolidated sales for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. For one of these two customers, we have exclusive supply agreements that have annual, automatic renewal provisions. Although we have a long-standing relationship with this customer, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to renew these supply agreements, which could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our Life Science operating segment has four other significant customers who purchase antigens, antibodies and reagents, which together comprised 10% and 13%, respectively, of the operating segment’s total sales for fiscal 2011 and 2010. Any significant alteration of buying patterns from these customers could adversely affect our period over period sales and results of operations. Revenues relating to research, development and manufacturing services for our Life Science operating segment are generated on a contract by contract basis. The nature of this business is such that each contract provides a unique product and/or service and corresponding revenue stream. Although we believe that future prospects for this business will generate targeted growth rates, there can be no assurance that future contracts will be secured, and if secured, will be profitable. - 17 - Table of Contents Intense competition could adversely affect our profitability. The markets for our products and services are characterized by substantial competition and rapid change. Hundreds of companies in the United States supply immunodiagnostic tests and purified reagents. These companies range from multinational healthcare entities, for which immunodiagnostics is one line of business, to small start-up companies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We cannot provide any assurance that our products and services will be able to compete successfully with the products and services of our competitors. In recent years, molecular tests have been introduced for the first time into the C. difficile market, which is a significant source of revenues for us. Our ability to continue to successfully compete in the C. difficile market is partly dependent upon the success and market acceptance of our own molecular-based product, illumigene® C. difficile. We depend on international sales, and our financial results may be adversely impacted by foreign currency, regulatory or other developments affecting international markets. We sell products and services into approximately 60 countries. Approximately 33% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 and approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2010 were attributable to international markets. For fiscal 2011, 43% of our international sales were made in Euros and 40% were made in U.S. dollars, with the remaining 17% being a combination of the British pound and the Australian dollar. We are subject to the risks associated with fluctuations in the exchange rates for the Australian dollar, British pound and Euro to the U.S. dollar. We are also subject to other risks associated with international operations, including longer customer payment cycles, tariff regulations, requirements for export licenses, instability of foreign governments, and governmental requirements with respect to the importation and distribution of medical devices and immunodiagnostic and molecular biology reagents, all of which may vary by country. Risks Affecting our Manufacturing Operations We are subject to comprehensive regulation, and our ability to earn profits may be restricted by these regulations. Medical device diagnostics and the manufacture, sale and distribution of bulk antigens, antibodies and reagents are highly regulated industries. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary governmental clearances or approvals or timely clearances or approvals to market future products in the United States and other countries. Costs and difficulties in complying with laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, the Centers for Disease Control or other regulators can result in unanticipated expenses and delays and interruptions to the sale of new and existing products. Contract manufacturing of proteins and other biologicals is regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Regulatory approval can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, making the timing and costs of approvals difficult to predict. The failure to comply with these regulations can result in delay in obtaining authorization to sell products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture or sell products, and other civil or criminal sanctions. - 18 - Table of Contents Significant interruptions in production at our principal manufacturing facilities and/or third-party manufacturing facilities would adversely affect our business and operating results. Products and services manufactured at our Cincinnati, Ohio; Boca Raton, Florida; Memphis, Tennessee; Saco, Maine; London, England; Luckenwalde, Germany; and Sydney, Australia facilities comprised 73% of our Diagnostics revenues and 82% of our Life Science revenues. Our global supply of these products and services is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. In addition, we currently rely on a small number of third-party manufacturers to produce certain of our diagnostic products and product components. The operations of our facilities or these third-party manufacturing facilities could be adversely affected by power failures, natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, tornadoes or terrorist threats. Although we carry insurance to protect against certain business interruptions at our facilities, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any significant interruption in the Company’s or third-party manufacturing capabilities could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We depend on sole-source suppliers for certain critical components and products. A supply interruption could adversely affect our business. Our products are made from a wide variety of raw materials that are generally available from multiple sources of supply. However, certain critical raw materials and supplies required for the production of some of our principal products are available only from a single supplier. In addition, certain finished products, for which we act as a distributor, are available only from a single supplier. If these suppliers become unable or unwilling to supply the required raw materials or products, we would need to find another source, and perform additional development work and obtain regulatory approvals for the use of the alternative raw materials for our products. Completing that development and obtaining such approvals could require significant time and resources, and may not occur at all. Any disruption in the supply of these raw materials or finished products could have a material adverse affect on us. We currently sole-source from a U.S. manufacturer the illumipro-10® instrument on which our illumigene® molecular testing platform operates. Additionally, two of our foodborne products sourced from another vendor accounted for 14%, 11% and 7% of third-party sales for our U.S. Diagnostics operating segment in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. - 19 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Product Liability We may be unable to protect or obtain proprietary rights that we utilize or intend to utilize. In developing and manufacturing our products, we employ a variety of proprietary and patented technologies. In addition, we have licensed, and expect to continue to license, various complementary technologies and methods from academic institutions and public and private companies. We cannot provide any assurance that the technologies that we own or license provide protection from competitive threats or from challenges to our intellectual property. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in obtaining licenses or proprietary or patented technologies in the future. Product infringement claims by other companies could result in costly disputes and could limit our ability to sell our products. Litigation over intellectual property rights is prevalent in the diagnostic industry. As the market for diagnostics continues to grow and the number of participants in the market increases, we may increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims. It is possible that a third-party may claim infringement against us. If found to infringe, we may attempt to obtain a license to such intellectual property; however, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, if our products are found to infringe on third-party intellectual property, we may be required to pay damages for past infringement and lose the ability to sell certain products, causing our revenues to decrease. We currently carry intellectual property insurance that covers damages and defense costs from our potential infringement on other third-party patents at levels that we believe are commercially reasonable, although there is no assurance that it will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim could have a material adverse affect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation in the industry could have a material adverse affect on our business. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may have to limit or cease sales of our products. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical diagnostic products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit or cease sales of our products. We currently carry product liability insurance at a level we believe is commercially reasonable, although there is no assurance that it will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. In certain customer contracts, we indemnify third parties for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may cause us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnifications. In addition, a defect in the design or manufacture of our products could have a material adverse affect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injury and otherwise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim could have a material adverse affect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation in the industry could have a material adverse affect on our business. - 20 - Table of Contents Other Risks Affecting Our Business Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to attract, hire and retain key personnel. Our future success depends on our continued ability to attract, hire and retain highly qualified personnel, including our executive officers and scientific, technical, sales and marketing employees, and their ability to manage growth successfully. If such key employees were to leave and we were unable to obtain adequate replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our bank credit agreement imposes restrictions with respect to our operations. Our bank credit agreement contains a number of financial covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests. If we fail to comply with the obligations in the credit agreement, we would be in default under the credit agreement. If an event of default is not cured or waived, it could result in acceleration of any indebtedness under our credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. At the present time, no borrowings are outstanding under our bank credit agreement. We face risks related to global economic conditions. We currently generate significant operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets provides us with discretionary funding capacity for research and development and other strategic activities. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors, including financial institutions. If global economic conditions deteriorate significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products from a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets and/or temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. Approximately $4,900 of our accounts receivable at September 30, 2011 is due from Italian hospital customers whose funding ultimately comes from the Italian government. The magnitude of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, and Italy in particular, is significant. We have experienced a deterioration in the aging of our Italian accounts receivable and continue to monitor the situation closely. - 21 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of such shares without any future vote or action by the shareholders. The issuance of preferred stock under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Ohio corporation law contains provisions that may discourage takeover bids for our company that have not been negotiated with the board of directors. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital at a price favorable to us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 22 - Table of Contents 