ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements We, or our representatives, from time to time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, either orally or in writing, including without limitation statements made or to be made in this Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, information contained in other filings with the SEC, press releases and other public documents or statements. In addition, our representatives, from time to time, participate in speeches and calls with market analysts, conferences with investors or potential investors in our securities and other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented at these speeches, calls, meetings and conferences may include forward-looking statements. We use words like "plans," "estimates," "expects," "anticipates" or "believes" to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to ensure that all forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that this list of important factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the effect, if any, of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Further, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our expectations. For more information about our results of operations and financial condition, you should see the discussion included under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, appearing later in this Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Business Continued uncertainty in the global financial markets and the global economy may negatively affect our financial results. Continued uncertainty in the global financial markets and economy may negatively affect our financial results. A prolonged period of economic decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and exacerbate some of the other risk factors we have described below. Our customers may defer or forego purchases of our services in response to tighter credit and negative financial news or reduce their demand for our services. Our customers may also not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us or ultimately cause the customer to file for protection from creditors under applicable insolvency or bankruptcy laws. If our customers are not able to make timely payments to us, our accounts receivable could increase. In addition, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively affected if as a result of economic conditions: •customers defer or forgo purchases of our services; •customers are unable to make timely payments to us; •the demand for, and prices of, our services are reduced as a result of actions by our competitors or otherwise; 37 Table of Contents •key suppliers upon which we rely are unwilling or unable to provide us with the materials we need for our network on a timely basis or on terms that we find acceptable; or •our financial counterparties, insurance providers or other contractual counterparties are unable to, or do not meet, their contractual commitments to us. Recent disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on reasonable terms (or at all), and have other adverse effects on us. Widely documented commercial credit market disruptions have resulted in a tightening of credit markets worldwide. Liquidity in the global credit markets have been severely contracted by these market disruptions, making it costly to obtain new lines of credit or to refinance existing debt, when debt financing is available at all. The effects of these disruptions are widespread, and it is impossible to predict whether the improvement in the global credit markets that began in the latter part of 2009 will continue or when the credit contraction will stop. As a result of the ongoing credit market turmoil, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms (or at all), which could affect our strategic operations and our financial performance and force modifications to our operations. Communications Group We need to not only increase but also maintain the network traffic and resulting revenue from the services that we offer to realize our targets for anticipated revenue growth, cash flow and operating performance. We must increase and maintain the network traffic and resulting revenue from our data, voice, content and infrastructure services at acceptable margins in order to realize our targets for anticipated revenue growth, cash flow and operating performance. If: •we do not maintain or improve our current relationships with existing key customers; •we do not develop new large volume and enterprise customers; or •our customers determine to obtain these services from either their own network or from one of our competitors; we may not be able to increase or maintain our revenue at acceptable margins, which would adversely affect our ability to become and/or remain profitable. Our financial condition and growth depends upon the continued successful integration of our acquired businesses. We may not be able to efficiently and effectively integrate acquired operations, and thus may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions that we have completed starting in December 2005 will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. Since December 2005, we have acquired, in chronological order, WilTel Communications Group, LLC, Progress Telecom, LLC, ICG Communications, Inc., TelCove, Inc., Looking Glass Networks Holding Co., Inc., Broadwing Corporation, the CDN services business of SAVVIS, and Servecast Limited. In the future we may acquire additional businesses in accordance with our business strategy. The integration of our acquired businesses and any future businesses that we may acquire involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: •demands on management related to the significant increase in size after the acquisition; •the disruption of ongoing business and the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations to management of integration activities; 38 Table of Contents •failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; •unanticipated impediments in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, procedures and policies; •loss of customers or the failure of customers to order incremental services that we expect them to order; •failure to provision services that are ordered by customers during the integration period; •higher integration costs than anticipated; and •difficulties in the assimilation and retention of highly qualified, experienced employees, many of whom may be geographically dispersed. Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage, obtain better terms from our vendors due to increased buying power, and eliminate redundant and excess costs to fully realize the expected synergies. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations and systems which may not be fully compatible, we may not be able to achieve the financial strength and growth we anticipate from the acquisitions. We cannot be certain that we will realize our anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, or that we will be able to efficiently and effectively integrate the acquired operations as planned. If we fail to integrate the acquired businesses and operations efficiently and effectively or fail to realize the benefits we anticipate, we would be likely to experience material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to implement customer orders and to provide and bill for services. Our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems. In certain cases, the development of these business support systems is required to realize our anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise and support from third-party vendors. Following the development of the business support systems, the data migration regarding network and circuit inventory must be completed for the full benefit of the systems to be realized. Business support systems are needed for: •quoting, accepting and inputting customer orders for services; •provisioning, installing and delivering these services; and •billing for these services. Because our business provides for continued rapid growth in the number of customers that we serve and the volume of services offered as well as the continued integration of acquired companies' business support systems, there is a need to continue to develop our business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed milestone dates. The failure to continue to develop effective unified business support systems or complete the data migration regarding network and circuit inventory into these systems could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans, realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions and meet our financial goals and objectives. 39 Table of Contents Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services or subject us to expensive intellectual property litigation. If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services was determined by a court to infringe a patent held by another entity that is unwilling to grant us a license on terms acceptable to us, we could be precluded by a court order from using that technology and we would likely be required to pay a significant monetary damages award to the patent-holder. The successful enforcement of these patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for these patents on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the relevant technology and offering services incorporating the technology. In the event that a claim of infringement was brought against us based on the use of our technology or against our customers based on their use of our services for which we are obligated to indemnify, we could be subject to litigation to determine whether such use or sale is, in fact, infringing. This litigation could be expensive and distracting, regardless of the outcome of the suit. While our own patent portfolio may deter other operating companies from bringing such actions, patent infringement claims are increasingly being asserted by patent holding companies, which do not use technology and whose sole business is to enforce patents against operators, such as us, for monetary gain. Because such patent holding companies, commonly referred to as patent "trolls," do not provide services or use technology, the assertion of our own patents by way of counter-claim would be largely ineffective. We have already been the subject of time-consuming and expensive patent litigation brought by certain patent holding companies and we can reasonably expect that we will face further claims in the future, particularly if legislation now discussed in Congress is not enacted in a way that will decrease the number and frequency of claims by patent trolls. Our consolidated revenue is concentrated in a limited number of communications customers. A significant portion of our consolidated revenue is concentrated among a limited number of communications customers. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our top ten communications customers represented approximately 28% of our total consolidated revenue. If we lost one or more of our top five communications customers, or, if one or more of these major customers significantly decreased orders for our services, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We may lose customers if we experience system failures that significantly disrupt the availability and quality of the services that we provide. System failures may also cause interruptions to service delivery and the completion of other corporate functions. Our operations depend on our ability to limit and mitigate interruptions or degradation in service for customers. Interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In addition, because many of our services are critical to the businesses of many of our customers, any significant interruption or degradation in service could result in lost profits or other losses to customers. Although we generally limit our liability for service failures in our service agreements to limited service credits (generally in the form of free service for a short period of time) and generally exclude any liability for "consequential" damages such as lost profits, a court might not enforce these limitations on liability, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide our customers with committed service levels. If we are unable to meet these service level commitments, we may be obligated to provide service credits or other compensation to our customers, which could negatively affect our operating results. The failure of any equipment or facility on our network, including our network operations control centers and network data storage locations, could result in the interruption of customer service and other corporate functions until necessary repairs are effected or replacement equipment is installed. In addition, our business continuity plans may not be adequate to address a particular failure that we 40 Table of Contents experience. Delays, errors, network equipment or network facility failures, including with respect to our network operations control centers and network data storage locations, could also result from natural disasters (including natural disasters that may increase in frequency as a result of the effects of climate change), disease, accidents, terrorist acts, power losses, security breaches, vandalism or other illegal acts, computer viruses, or other causes. Our business could be significantly hurt from these delays, errors, failures or faults including as a result of: •service interruptions; •exposure to customer liability; •the inability to install new service; •the unavailability of employees necessary to provide services; •the delay in the completion of other corporate functions such as issuing bills and the preparation of financial statements; or •the need for expensive modifications to our systems and infrastructure. Failure to develop and introduce new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry. We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our communications network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on reaching mutually-acceptable terms with vendors and on vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted by our customers, we may terminate those service offerings and we may be required to impair any assets or technology used to develop or offer those services. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in increasing sales of our content distribution service offering. As we believe that one of the largest sources of future incremental demand for our communications services will be derived from customers that are seeking to distribute their video, feature rich content or applications over the Internet, we purchased our content distribution network or CDN assets in 2007. Although we have sold high speed Internet access, transport and colocation services since the late 1990's, we have only been selling our CDN services since January 2007. As a result, there are many difficulties that we may encounter, including customer acceptance, customer support system development issues, intellectual property matters, technological issues, developmental constraints and other problems that we may not anticipate. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in generating significant revenues from our CDN service offering. Rapid technological changes can lead to further competition. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. In addition, the introduction of new services or technologies, as well as the further development of existing services and technologies may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to those that we provide. As a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to the communications industry. These new entrants may not be burdened by an installed base of outdated equipment or obsolete technology. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and 41 Table of Contents adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. During our communications business operating history we have generated substantial net operating losses, and we expect to continue to generate net operating losses. Our expenditures combined with non-cash compensation expense as well as depreciation and amortization expense could result in substantial net losses for the near future. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, we incurred net losses of approximately $618 million and $318 million, respectively. We expect to continue to experience net losses, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Continued net losses could limit our ability to obtain the cash needed to expand our network, make interest and principal payments on our debt, or fund other business needs. We will need to continue to expand and adapt our network in order to remain competitive, which may require significant additional funding. Additional expansion and adaptations of our communications network's electronic and software components will be necessary in order to respond to: •growing number of customers; •the development and launching of new services; •increased demands by customers to transmit larger amounts of data; •changes in customers' service requirements; •technological advances by competitors; and •governmental regulations. Future expansion or adaptation of our network will require substantial additional financial, operational and managerial resources, which may not be available at the time. If we are unable to expand or adapt our network to respond to these developments on a timely basis and at a commercially reasonable cost, our business will be materially adversely affected. The market prices for certain of our communications services have decreased in the past and may decrease in the future, resulting in lower revenue than we anticipate. Over the past few years, the market prices for certain of our communications services have decreased. These decreases resulted from downward market pressure and other factors including: •technological changes and network expansions which have resulted in increased transmission capacity available for sale by us and by our competitors; •some of our customer agreements contain volume-based pricing or other contractually agreed-upon decreases in prices during the term of the respective agreements; and •some of our competitors have been willing to accept smaller operating margins in the short term in an attempt to increase long-term revenues. In order to retain customers and revenue, we often must reduce prices in response to market conditions and trends. As our prices for some of our communications services decrease, our operating results may suffer unless we are able to either reduce our operating expenses or increase traffic volume from which we can derive additional revenue. We also expect revenue from our managed modem services to continue to decline primarily as a result of end users migrating to broadband services. 42 Table of Contents The need to obtain additional capacity for our network from other providers increases our costs. We use network resources owned by other companies for portions of our network. We obtain the right to use such network portions, including both telecommunications capacity and rights to use dark fiber, through operating leases and IRU agreements. In several of those agreements, the counter party is responsible for network maintenance and repair. If a counter party to a lease or IRU suffers financial distress or bankruptcy, we may not be able to enforce our rights to use these network assets or, even if we could continue to use these network assets, we could incur material expenses related to maintenance and repair. We could also incur material expenses if we were required to locate alternative network assets. We may not be successful in obtaining reasonable alternative network assets if needed. Failure to obtain usage of alternative network assets, if necessary, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry on business operations. In addition, some of our agreements with other providers require the payment of amounts for services whether or not those services are used. In the normal course of business, we need to enter into interconnection agreements with many domestic and foreign local telephone companies, but we are not always able to do so on favorable terms. Costs of obtaining local service from other carriers comprise a significant proportion of the operating expenses of long distance carriers. Similarly, a large proportion of the costs of providing international service consists of payments to other carriers. Changes in regulation, particularly the regulation of local and international telecommunication carriers, could indirectly, but significantly, affect our competitive position. These changes could increase or decrease the costs of providing our services. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We have experienced significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are seeking. As a result of this significant competition, we may experience a shortage of qualified personnel. Our businesses are managed by a small number of key executive officers, including James Q. Crowe, Chief Executive Officer. The loss of any of these key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must obtain and maintain permits and rights-of-way to operate our network. If we are unable, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, to obtain and maintain the franchises, permits and rights-of-way needed to expand and operate our network, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cancellation or non-renewal of the franchises, permits or rights-of-way that are obtained could materially adversely affect our business. Our communications operating subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that, among other things, challenge the subsidiaries' use of rights-of-way. The plaintiffs have sought to have these lawsuits certified as class actions. It is possible that additional suits challenging use of our rights-of-way will be filed and that those plaintiffs also may seek class certification. The outcome of such litigation may increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results. Termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delay and additional costs. Our business is dependent on third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related components as well as providers of network colocation facilities that are integrated into our network, some of which are critical to the operation of our business. If any of these critical relationships is terminated, a supplier either exits or curtails its business as a result of 43 Table of Contents the current economic conditions, a supplier fails to provide critical services or equipment, or the supplier is forced to stop providing services due to legal constraints, such as patent infringement, and we are unable to reach suitable alternative arrangements quickly, we may experience significant additional costs or we may not be able to provide certain services to customers. If that happens, our business could be materially adversely affected. AT&T and Verizon may not provide us local access services at prices that allow us to effectively compete. We acquire a significant portion of our local access services, the connection between our owned network and the customer premises, from incumbent local exchange carriers or ILECs. With the recent acquisitions by AT&T and Verizon, the ILECs now compete directly with our business and may have a tendency to favor themselves and their affiliates to our detriment. Network access represents a very large portion of our total costs and if we face less favorable pricing and provisioning, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to the ILECs. We may be liable for the information that content owners or distributors distribute over our network. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. While we disclaim any liability for third party content in our services agreements, we may become subject to legal claims relating to the content disseminated on our network, even though such content is owned or distributed by our customers or a customer of our customers. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that material distributed using our network was inaccurate, offensive, or violated the law or the rights of others. Claims could also involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement. In addition, the law remains unclear over whether content may be distributed from one jurisdiction, where the content is legal, into another jurisdiction, where it is not. Companies operating private networks have been sued in the past, sometimes successfully, based on the nature of material distributed, even if the content is not owned by the network operator and the network operator has no knowledge of the content or its legality. It is not practical for us to monitor all of the content which is distributed using our network. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. We are subject to significant regulation that could change in an adverse manner. Communications services are subject to significant regulation at the federal, state, local and international levels. These regulations affect our business and our existing and potential competitors. Delays in receiving required regulatory approvals (including approvals relating to acquisitions or financing activities), completing interconnection agreements with other carriers, or the enactment of new and adverse regulations or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, future legislative, judicial and regulatory agency actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Federal legislation provides for a significant deregulation of the U.S. telecommunications industry, including the local exchange, long distance and cable television industries. This legislation remains subject to judicial review and additional Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, rulemaking. As a result, we cannot predict the legislation's effect on our future operations. Many regulatory actions are under way or are being contemplated by federal and state authorities regarding important issues. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. 44 Table of Contents Changes in regulations affecting commercial power providers may increase our costs. In the normal course of business, we need to enter into agreements with many providers of commercial power for our office, network and Gateway facilities. Costs of obtaining commercial power can comprise a significant component of our operating expenses. Changes in regulations that affect commercial power providers, particularly regulations related to the control of greenhouse gas emissions or other climate change related matters, could affect the costs of commercial power, which may increase the costs of providing our services and may adversely affect our operating results. The laws in certain countries currently do not permit us to offer services directly in those countries. Ownership of telecommunications facilities that originate or terminate traffic in certain countries, such as Canada and China, is currently limited to nationals of those countries. This restriction hinders our entry into those markets. Potential regulation of Internet service providers in the United States could adversely affect our operations. The FCC has, to date, treated Internet service providers as enhanced service providers. In addition, Congress has, to date, not sought to heavily regulate the provision of IP-based services. Both Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that involve greater regulation of IP-based service providers. Depending on the content and scope of any regulations, the imposition of such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and the profitability of our services. The communications industry is highly competitive with participants that have greater resources and a greater number of existing customers. The communications industry is highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have financial, personnel, marketing and other resources significantly greater than ours. Many of these competitors have the added competitive advantage of a larger existing customer base. In addition, significant new competition could arise as a result of: •the consolidation in the industry; •allowing foreign carriers to more extensively compete in the U.S. market; •further technological advances; and •further deregulation and other regulatory initiatives. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business could be significantly affected. We may be unable to successfully identify, manage and assimilate future acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We continually evaluate potential investments and strategic opportunities to expand our network, enhance connectivity and add traffic to our network. In the future, we may seek additional investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements, which may expose us to risks such as: •the difficulty of identifying appropriate investments, strategic allies or opportunities on terms acceptable to us; •the possibility that senior management may be required to spend considerable time negotiating agreements and monitoring these arrangements; •potential regulatory issues applicable to the telecommunications business; •the loss or reduction in value of the capital investment; 45 Table of Contents •our inability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by these arrangements; and •the possibility of insolvency of a strategic ally. There can be no assurance that we would successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered with these investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements. Other Operations Environmental liabilities from our historical operations could be material. There could be environmental liabilities arising from historical operations of our predecessors, for which we may be liable. Our operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, human health and safety. These laws and regulations include those concerning the use and management of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. We have made and will continue to make significant expenditures relating to our environmental compliance obligations. Despite our best efforts, we may not at all times be in compliance with all of these requirements. In connection with certain historical operations, we have responded to or been notified of potential environmental liability at approximately 150 properties as of February 15, 2010. We are engaged in addressing or have liquidated environmental liabilities at 74 of those properties. Of these: (a) we have formal commitments or other potential future costs at 15 sites; (b) there are 10 sites with minimal future costs; (c) there are 14 sites with unknown future costs and (d) there are 35 sites with no likely future costs. The remaining properties have been dormant for several years. We could be held liable, jointly or severally, and without regard to fault, for such investigation and remediation. The discovery of additional environmental liabilities related to historical operations or changes in existing environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Potential liabilities and claims arising from coal operations could be significant. Our coal operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that impose stringent operational, maintenance, financial assurance, environmental compliance, reclamation, restoration and closure requirements. These requirements include those governing air and water emissions, waste disposal, worker health and safety, benefits for current and retired coal miners, and other general permitting and licensing requirements. Despite our best efforts, we may not at all times be in compliance with all of these requirements. Liabilities or claims associated with this non-compliance could require us to incur material costs or suspend production. Mine reclamation costs that exceed reserves for these matters also could require us to incur material costs. Increased regulation of greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions may adversely affect demand for coal. Present and proposed regulation of GHG emissions on the state, regional, national, and international level has typically included requirements applicable to the utility sector and coal-fired power plants. Therefore, such regulation could adversely affect the demand for coal in coming years, particularly from our utility customers. This could have an adverse effect on our operating results. General If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of these agreements, and this could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that have been borrowed. If we were unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in any of our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of those agreements. As a result, borrowings under other 46 Table of Contents debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to make necessary payments to the lenders or that we would be able to find alternative financing. Even if we were able to obtain alternative financing, there can be no assurance that it would be on terms that are acceptable. We have substantial debt, which may hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our substantial debt may have important consequences, including the following: •the ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments and capital or other expenditures could be impaired or financing may not be available on acceptable terms; •a substantial portion of our cash flows will be used to make principal and interest payments on outstanding debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; •a substantial decrease in cash flows from operating activities or an increase in expenses could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements and force modifications to operations; •we have more debt than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and •substantial debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. We had substantial deficiencies of earnings to cover fixed charges of approximately $617 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, $264 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, $1.1 billion for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, $742 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and $647 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. We may not be able to repay our existing debt; failure to do so or refinance the debt could prevent us from implementing our strategy and realizing anticipated profits. If we were unable to refinance our debt or to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, our ability to operate our business would be impaired. As of December 31, 2009, aggregate future maturities of our long-term debt, capital leases and our commercial mortgage (after taking into account the issuance of the Level 3 Financing, Inc. 10% Senior Notes due 2018 issued in January 2010, the retirement of the Level 3 Financing, Inc. 12.25% Senior Notes due 2013 and excluding debt discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments) approximated $6.659 billion. Of this long-term debt, approximately $154 million is due to mature in 2010, approximately $377 million is due to mature in 2011 and approximately $298 million is due to mature in 2012, in each case excluding debt discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments. Our ability to make interest and principal payments on our debt and borrow additional funds on favorable terms depends on the future performance of the business. If we do not have enough cash flow in the future to make interest or principal payments on our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a part of our debt or to raise additional capital. We cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance our debt or raise additional capital on acceptable terms. 47 Table of Contents Restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements limit our ability to conduct our business and could prevent us from obtaining needed funds in the future. Our debt and financing arrangements contain a number of significant limitations that restrict our ability to, among other things: •borrow additional money or issue guarantees; •pay dividends or other distributions to stockholders; •make investments; •create liens on assets; •sell assets; •enter into sale-leaseback transactions; •enter into transactions with affiliates; and •engage in mergers or consolidations. The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenue and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. The primary factors, among other things, that may affect our quarterly results include the following: •the timing of costs associated with the operation of our business and our integration activities with respect to our recently completed acquisitions; •demand for communications services; •loss of customers or the ability to attract new customers; •changes in pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; •costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; •changes in regulatory rulings; and •general economic conditions as well as those specific to the communications and related industries. A delay in generating revenue or the timing of recognizing revenue and expenses could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. It is possible that in some future quarters our results may be below analysts and investors expectations. In these circumstances, the price of our common stock will likely decrease. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock, we may be unable to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income taxes. As of December 31, 2009, we had net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $5.2 billion for federal income tax purposes. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock that result in a cumulative ownership change of more than 50 percentage points by 5-percent stockholders over a three-year period as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and applicable regulations, annual limitations would be imposed with respect to our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry forwards and certain current deductions against any taxable income we achieve in future periods. 48 Table of Contents We have entered into transactions over the applicable three year period that, when combined with other changes in ownership that are outside of our control, have resulted in cumulative changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Additional transactions that we enter into, as well as transactions by existing 5% stockholders and transactions by holders that become new 5% stockholders that we do not participate in, could cause us to incur a 50 percentage point ownership change by 5% stockholders and, if we trigger the above-noted Code imposed limitations, such transactions would prevent us from fully utilizing net operating loss carry forwards and certain current deductions to reduce income taxes. Increased scrutiny of financial disclosure, particularly in the telecommunications industry in which we operate, could adversely affect investor confidence, and any restatement of earnings could increase litigation risks and limit our ability to access the capital markets. Congress, the SEC, other regulatory authorities and the media are intensely scrutinizing a number of financial reporting issues and practices. If we were required to restate our financial statements as a result of a determination that we had incorrectly applied generally accepted accounting principles or as a result of other factors or errors, that restatement could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or the trading price of our securities. The recent scrutiny regarding financial reporting has also resulted in an increase in litigation. There can be no assurance that any such litigation against us would not materially adversely affect our business or the trading price of our securities. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business. There can be no assurance that there will not be future terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly affect our physical facilities or those of our customers. These events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our business. Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect the business. We have operations and investments outside of the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries, that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: •general economic, social and political conditions; •the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; •tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in the U.S.; •foreign currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments; •foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; •difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines; •difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and •changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. 49 Table of Contents Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws could limit the share price and delay a change of management. Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. These provisions, among other things: •prohibit stockholder action by written consent in place of a meeting; •limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •limit the right of stockholders to present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; and •authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders. In addition, the terms of most of our long term debt require that upon a "change in control," as defined in the agreements that contain the terms and conditions of the long term debt, we make an offer to purchase the outstanding long term debt at either 100% or 101% of the aggregate principal amount of that long term debt. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change management. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. If a large number of shares of our common stock is sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future issuances by us of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, shares of our common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition may not be subject to resale restrictions. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if certain large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock in connection with an acquisition, sell all or a significant portion of their shares of common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock in the capital markets. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors. The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: •the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock; •quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results; •changes in estimated earnings by securities analysts; 50 Table of Contents •market conditions in the communications and information services industries; •announcement and performance by competitors; •regulatory actions; and •general economic conditions. In addition, in recent months the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Those market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the market price or liquidity of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 