Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements We, or our representatives, from time to time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, whether orally or in writing, including without limitation statements made or to be made in this Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, information contained in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and other public documents or statements. In addition, our representatives, from time to time, participate in speeches and calls with market analysts, conferences with investors or potential investors in our securities and other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented at these speeches, calls, meetings and conferences may include forward-looking statements. We use words like “expects,” “anticipates” or “believes” to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to ensure that all forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that this list of important factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Further, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our expectations. Risks Related to Our Businesses Communications Group Our financial condition and growth depends upon the successful integration of our acquired businesses. We may not be able to efficiently and effectively integrate recently acquired operations, and thus may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. Level 3 and Broadwing entered into the Broadwing merger with the expectation that our acquisition of Broadwing will result in benefits to each company. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Broadwing merger will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. In addition, since December 2005, we have acquired WilTel Communications Group, LLC, Progress Telecom, LLC, ICG Communications, Inc., TelCove, Inc., Looking Glass Networks Holding Co., Inc. and 38 the CDN services business of SAVVIS and from time to time we may acquire additional businesses in accordance with our business strategy. The integration of our acquired businesses and any future businesses that we may acquire involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: · demands on management related to the significant increase in size after the acquisition; · the disruption of ongoing business and the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; · loss of key personnel of the recently acquired operations; · loss of customers post-integration; · higher integration costs than anticipated; · failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; · difficulties in the assimilation and retention of highly qualified, experienced employees; · resistance to the assimilation of different cultures and practices, and complexity in the assimilation of personnel and operations which are broadly geographically dispersed; and · unanticipated impediments in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, procedures and policies. If we cannot efficiently and effectively integrate acquired businesses or operations, we would be likely to experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs to fully realize the expected synergies. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations, we may not be able to achieve the financial strength and growth we anticipate from the acquisitions. We cannot be certain that we will realize our anticipated benefits from our recent acquisitions, or that we will be able to efficiently and effectively integrate the recently acquired operations as planned. If we fail to integrate the recently acquired operations efficiently or fail to realize the benefits we anticipate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We need to continue to increase the volume of traffic on our network to become profitable. We must continue to increase the volume of Internet, data, voice and video transmissions on our communications network at acceptable prices in order to realize our targets for anticipated sales and revenue growth, cash flow, operating efficiencies and the cost benefits of our network. If we do not maintain or improve our current relationship with existing customers and develop new large volume and enterprise customers, we may not be able to substantially increase traffic on our network, which would adversely affect our ability to become profitable. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services or subject us to expensive intellectual property litigation. If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services was determined by a court to infringe a patent held by another entity that is unwilling to grant us a license on terms acceptable to us, we could be precluded by court order from using such technology and would likely be required to pay a significant 39 monetary damages award to the patent-holder. The successful enforcement of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the technology and offering services incorporating the technology. In the event that a claim of infringement was brought against us based on the use or sale of our technology or against any of our customers based on their use of our technology for which we would be obligated to indemnify, we could be subject to litigation to determine whether such use or sale of the relevant technology is, in fact, infringing. This litigation would be expensive and distracting, regardless of the outcome of the suit. While our own extensive patent portfolio may deter other telecommunications providers from bringing such actions, patent infringement claims are increasingly being asserted by patent holding companies, whose sole business model is to enforce patents against operators, such as Level 3, for monetary gain. Because such patent holding companies do not provide services or use technology, the assertion of our own patents by way of counter-claim would be largely ineffective. We have already been the subject of time-consuming and expensive patent litigation brought by certain patent holding companies and we can reasonably expect that we will face further claims in the future. Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to implement customer orders and to provide and bill for services. Our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise and support from third-party vendors. Business support systems are needed for: · implementing customer orders for services; · provisioning, installing and delivering these services; and · monthly billing for these services. Because our business provides for continued rapid growth in the number of customers that we serve and the volume of services offered, there is a need to continue to develop our business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed service rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective business support systems could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans and meet our financial goals and objectives. Our revenue is concentrated in a limited number of customers. A significant portion of our communications revenue is concentrated among a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our top ten customers represented approximately 54% of our consolidated total revenue. Revenue from our largest customer, AT&T Inc. and its subsidiaries, including SBC Communications, BellSouth and Cingular, (assuming those subsidiaries were wholly owned by AT&T for all of 2006), represented approximately 32.4% of our consolidated total revenue for 2006. The next largest customer accounted for approximately 6.6% of our consolidated total revenue and most of the remaining top ten customers each account for 2% or less of our consolidated total revenue. If we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased orders for our services, our business would be materially and adversely affected. In connection with the acquisition of WilTel in December 2005, we acquired a large customer contract between WilTel and SBC Communications, a subsidiary of AT&T. We expect that the revenue generated under this contract will continue to decline over time as SBC Communications migrates its traffic from our network to the merged SBC and AT&T Communications network that SBC Communications acquired from the former AT&T. 40 We may lose customers if we experience system failures that significantly disrupt the availability and quality of the services that we provide. Our operations depend on our ability to avoid and mitigate any interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers. Interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In addition, because many of our services are critical to the businesses of many of our customers, any significant interruption in service could result in lost profits or other loss to customers. Although we attempt to disclaim liability in our service agreements, a court might not enforce a limitation on liability, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide our customers with guaranteed service level commitments. If we are unable to meet these guaranteed service level commitments as a result of service interruptions, we may be obligated to provide credits, generally in the form of free service for a short period of time, to our customers, which could negatively affect our operating results. The failure of any equipment or facility on our network, including the network operations control center and network data storage locations, could result in the interruption of customer service until necessary repairs are effected or replacement equipment is installed. Network failures, delays and errors could also result from natural disasters, terrorist acts, power losses, security breaches and computer viruses. These failures, faults or errors could cause delays, service interruptions, expose us to customer liability or require expensive modifications that could significantly hurt our business. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in combining our existing service offering with our recently acquired content distribution services. As we believe that one of the largest sources of future incremental demand for our communications services will be derived from customers that are seeking to distribute their feature rich content or video over the Internet, we purchased the content distribution network or CDN assets of SAVVIS, Inc. in January 2007. As a result of this acquisition, we now need to combine this CDN service offering with our existing communications services—including high speed Internet access, transport and colocation services—to provide a single source, end-to-end content distribution solution. Although we have sold high speed Internet access, transport and colocation services since the late 1990’s, we have only been selling our CDN services since the completion of the acquisition of the SAVVIS assets in January 2007. As a result, there are many difficulties that we may encounter, including customer acceptance, intellectual property matters, technological issues, developmental constraints and other problems that we may not anticipate. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in generating significant revenues from our CDN service offering. Rapid technological changes can lead to further competition. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. In addition, the introduction of new services or technologies, as well as the further development of existing services and technologies may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to those that we provide. As a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to the communications industry. These new entrants may not be burdened by an installed base of outdated equipment. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. Technological changes and the resulting competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. 41 Failure to complete development, testing and introduction of new services, including VoIP services, could affect our ability to compete in the industry. We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our communications network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on the conclusion of contract negotiations with vendors and vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted by our customers, we may terminate those service offerings and be required to impair any assets or information technology used to develop or offer those services. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. During our communications business operating history, we have generated substantial losses, which we expect to continue. The development of our communications business required, and may continue to require, significant expenditures. These expenditures could result in substantial negative cash flow from operating activities and substantial net losses for the near future. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we incurred losses from continuing operations of approximately $790 million and $707 million, respectively. We expect to continue to experience losses, and may not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability in the future. Continued operating losses could limit our ability to obtain the cash needed to expand our network, make interest and principal payments on our debt or fund other business needs. We will need to continue to expand and adapt our network in order to remain competitive, which may require significant additional funding. During 2005, we deployed a new generation of optical transmission equipment. Additional expansion and adaptations of our communications network’s electronic and software components will be necessary in order to respond to: · growing number of customers; · the development and launching of new services; · increased demands by customers to transmit larger amounts of data; · changes in customers’ service requirements; · technological advances by competitors; and · governmental regulations. Future expansion or adaptation of our network will require substantial additional financial, operational and managerial resources, which may not be available at the time. If we are unable to expand or adapt our network to respond to these developments on a timely basis and at a commercially reasonable cost, our business will be materially adversely affected. 42 The prices we are able to charge for certain of our communications services have been decreasing in the past and may decrease over time resulting in lost revenue for which we may be unable to compensate. Over the past few years, the prices that we are able to charge for certain of our communications services have been decreasing. These decreases resulted from downward market pressure and other factors including: · increased transmission capacity by our competitors and us on our respective existing and new networks; · our customer agreements containing volume based pricing or other contractually agreed upon decreases in prices during the term of the agreement; and · technological advances or otherwise. As our prices for communications services decrease for whatever reason, if we are unable to increase traffic volume through additional services from which we can derive additional revenue or if we are unable to reduce our operating expenses, our operating results will decline. Excluding the effects of acquisitions, we also continue to expect managed modem related revenue to continue to decline primarily due to: · an increase in the number of subscribers migrating to broadband services; · continued pricing pressures; and · declining customer obligations under existing contractual arrangements. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. We may become subject to legal claims relating to the content disseminated on our network. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that material on our network on which one of our customers relied was inaccurate. Claims could also involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement. In addition, there are other issues such as online gambling where the legal issues remain unclear. Content providers operating private networks have been sued in the past, sometimes successfully, based on the content of material. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. Because our VoIP services are relatively new services there is no guarantee that these services will gain broad market acceptance. Although we have sold Softswitch based services since the late 1990’s, we have only been selling our Voice over Internet Protocol (or VoIP) services for a limited period of time. As a result, there are many difficulties that we may encounter, including regulatory hurdles, technological issues, intellectual property matters, developmental constraints and other problems that we may not anticipate. To date, our revenue from the sale of VoIP services has not been significant relative to our total consolidated revenues and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in generating significant VoIP revenues. 43 The success of our subscriber based VoIP services is dependent on the growth and public acceptance of VoIP telephony in general. The success of our subscriber based VoIP services is dependent upon future demand for VoIP telephony services in general in the marketplace. In order for the IP telephony market to continue to grow, several things need to occur, including the following: · Telephone and cable service providers must continue to invest in the deployment of high speed broadband networks to residential and commercial customers. · VoIP networks must continue to improve quality of service for real-time communications, managing effects such as packet jitter, packet loss and unreliable bandwidth, so that toll-quality service can be provided. · VoIP telephony equipment and services must achieve a similar level of reliability that users of the public switched telephone network have come to expect from their telephone service, including emergency calling features and capabilities. · VoIP telephony service providers must offer cost and feature benefits to their customers that are sufficient to cause the customers to switch away from traditional telephony service providers. If any or all of these factors fail to occur, our VoIP services business may not continue or grow as expected. The need to obtain additional capacity for our network from other providers increases our costs. We use network resources owned by other companies for portions of our network both in the United States and in Europe. We obtain the right to use such network portions, including both telecommunications capacity and rights to use dark fiber, through operating leases and IRU agreements in which we pay for the right to use such other companies’ fiber assets and through agreements in which we exchange the use of portions of our network for the use of portions of such other companies’ networks. In several of those agreements, the counter party is responsible for network maintenance and repair. If a counter party to a lease, IRU or an exchange suffers financial distress or bankruptcy, we may not be able to enforce our rights to use such network assets or, even if we could continue to use such network assets, we could incur material expenses related to maintenance and repair. We could also incur material expenses if we were required to locate alternative network assets. We may not be successful in obtaining reasonable alternative network assets if needed. Failure to obtain usage of alternative network assets, if necessary, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to carry on business operations. In addition, some of our agreements with other providers require the payment of amounts for services whether or not those services are used. In the normal course of business, we need to enter into interconnection agreements with many domestic and foreign local telephone companies, but we are not always able to do so on favorable terms. Costs of obtaining local service from other carriers comprise a significant proportion of the operating expenses of long distance carriers. Similarly, a large proportion of the costs of providing international service consists of payments to other carriers. Changes in regulation, particularly the regulation of local and international telecommunication carriers, could indirectly, but significantly, affect our competitive position. These changes could increase or decrease the costs of providing our services. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect on our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We 44 have experienced significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are seeking. As a result of this significant competition, we may experience a shortage of qualified personnel. Our businesses are managed by a small number of key executive officers, particularly James Q. Crowe, Chief Executive Officer, Kevin J. O’Hara, President and Chief Operating Officer and Charles C. Miller, III, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President. The loss of any of these key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must obtain and maintain permits and rights-of-way to operate our network. If we are unable, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, to obtain and maintain the franchises, permits and rights-of-way needed to expand and operate our network, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cancellation or non-renewal of the franchises, permits or rights-of-way that are obtained could materially adversely affect our business. Our communications operating subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that, among other things, challenge the subsidiaries’ use of rights-of-way. The plaintiffs have sought to have these lawsuits certified as class actions. It is likely that additional suits challenging use of our rights-of-way will occur and that those plaintiffs also will seek class certification. The outcome of this litigation may increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results. Termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delay and costs. Our business is dependent on third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related components that are integrated into our network. If any of these relationships is terminated or a supplier fails to provide reliable services or equipment and we are unable to reach suitable alternative arrangements quickly, we may experience significant additional costs. If that happens, our business could be materially adversely affected. Increased industry capacity and other factors could lead to lower prices for our services. Additional network capacity available from our competitors may cause significant decreases in the prices for the services that we offer. Prices may also decline due to capacity increases resulting from technological advances and strategic acquisitions. Increased competition has already led to a decline in rates charged for various telecommunications services. Recent acquisitions by AT&T and Verizon will create a tendency for the ILEC acquirer to favor their wholly owned or fully integrated interexchange carrier. We acquire a significant portion of our access, the connection between our owned network and the customer premises, from ILECs. With the recent ILEC acquisitions of major interexhange carriers, the ILECs now compete directly with our business and may have a tendency to favor themselves and their affiliates to our detriment. It is not yet clear what effect, if any, will result from the constraints agreed to by the ILECs to protect independent interexchange carriers against this discrimination in the procurement of the bottleneck local access circuits. The ILECs favoring themselves in access could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and retain customers because access is often necessary in most cases to connect enterprise customers and carrier customers to our network. Network access represents a very large portion of our total costs and if we face less favorable pricing and provisioning, we will be at a competitive disadvantage versus the ILECs. 45 The opportunity to obtain access from competitive access providers to the ILECs has been significantly reduced as a result of the AT&T and Verizon mergers. A principal method of connecting with our customers is through local transport and last mile circuits we purchase from the ILEC. Another method is our purchasing such circuits from competitive access providers like AT&T and MCI. We believe that competitive access providers are the only entities that exert competitive pricing pressure on the ILECs. While the likely result of the acquisitions by AT&T and Verizon is higher prices for special access over time, it is not possible to determine at this time how adverse the long term effect on us will be. We are subject to significant regulation that could change in an adverse manner. Communications services are subject to significant regulation at the federal, state, local and international levels. These regulations affect our business and our existing and potential competitors. Delays in receiving required regulatory approvals (including approvals relating to acquisitions or financing activities), completing interconnection agreements with incumbent local exchange carriers or the enactment of new and adverse regulations or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, future legislative, judicial and regulatory agency actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Federal legislation provides for a significant deregulation of the U.S. telecommunications industry, including the local exchange, long distance and cable television industries. This legislation remains subject to judicial review and additional Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, rulemaking. As a result, we cannot predict the legislation’s effect on our future operations. Many regulatory actions are under way or are being contemplated by federal and state authorities regarding important items. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. States also often require prior approvals or notifications for certain transfers of assets, customers or ownership of certificated carriers and for issuances by certified carriers of equity or debt. Canadian law currently does not permit us to offer services directly in Canada. Ownership of facilities that originate or terminate traffic in Canada is currently limited to Canadian carriers. This restriction hinders our entry into the Canadian market unless appropriate arrangements can be made to address it. Potential regulation of Internet service providers in the United States could adversely affect our operations. The FCC has, to date, treated Internet service providers as enhanced service providers. In addition, Congress has, to date, not sought to heavily regulate the provision of IP-based services. Both Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that involve greater regulation of IP-based service providers. Depending on the content and scope of any regulations, the imposition of such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and the profitability of our services. The communications industry is highly competitive with participants that have greater resources and a greater number of existing customers. The communications industry is highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have financial, personnel, marketing and other resources significantly greater than us. Many of these competitors have the added competitive advantage of a larger existing customer base. In addition, significant new competition could arise as a result of: · the consolidation in the industry, led by AT&T and Verizon; · allowing foreign carriers to compete in the U.S. market; 46 · further technological advances; and · further deregulation and other regulatory initiatives. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business could be significantly hurt. We may be unable to successfully identify, manage and assimilate future acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We continually evaluate potential investments and strategic opportunities to expand our network, enhance connectivity and add traffic to our network. In the future, we may seek additional investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements, which may expose us to risks such as: · the difficulty of identifying appropriate investments, strategic allies or opportunities; · the possibility that senior management may be required to spend considerable time negotiating agreements and monitoring these arrangements; · the possibility that definitive agreements will not be finalized; · potential regulatory issues applicable to the telecommunications business; · the loss or reduction in value of the capital investment; · the inability of management to capitalize on the opportunities presented by these arrangements; and · the possibility of insolvency of a strategic ally. There can be no assurance that we would successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered with these investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements. Revenue under our agreement with SBC Services is expected to continue to decline materially. As part of our acquisition of the communications business of WilTel Communications Group, LLC, or WilTel, we acquired a multi-year contract with SBC Services, Inc. which we refer to as the SBC Contract Services Agreement. Recently, SBC Services Inc. became a subsidiary of AT&T Inc. and announced its intention to migrate the services provided by WilTel to the merged SBC Services, Inc. and AT&T network. WilTel and SBC amended the SBC Contract Services agreement to run through 2009 and it provides a remaining gross margin purchase commitment of $67 million through the end of 2007, and $75 million from January 2008 through the end of 2009. Originating and terminating access charges paid to local phone companies are passed through to SBC in accordance with a formula that approximates cost. Additionally, the SBC Master Services Agreement provides for the payment of $25 million in 2007 from SBC if we meet certain performance criteria. We expect the revenue generated by the SBC Contract Services agreement to decline materially in 2007. Other Operations Environmental liabilities from our historical operations could be material. Environmental liabilities from our historical operations could be material. Our operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, human health and safety. These laws and regulations include those concerning the use and management of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. We have made and will continue to make significant expenditures relating to our environmental compliance obligations. Despite our best efforts, we may not at all times be in compliance with all of these requirements. 47 In connection with certain historical operations, we have responded to or been notified of potential environmental liability at approximately 148 properties as of February 15, 2007. We are engaged in addressing or have liquidated 70 of those properties. Of these: (a) we have formal commitments or other potential future costs at 15 sites; (b) there are 10 sites with minimal future costs; (c) there are 11 sites with unknown future costs and (d) there are 34 sites with no likely future costs. The remaining 78 properties have been dormant for several years. We could be held liable, jointly or severally, and without regard to fault, for such investigation and remediation. The discovery of additional environmental liabilities related to historical operations or changes in existing environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Potential liabilities and claims arising from coal operations could be significant. Our coal operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that impose stringent operational, maintenance, financial assurance, environmental compliance, reclamation, restoration and closure requirements. These requirements include those governing air and water emissions, waste disposal, worker health and safety, benefits for current and retired coal miners, and other general permitting and licensing requirements. Despite our best efforts, we may not at all times be in compliance with all of these requirements. Liabilities or claims associated with this non-compliance could require us to incur material costs or suspend production. Mine reclamation costs that exceed reserves for these matters also could require us to incur material costs. General If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of these agreements, and this could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that have been borrowed. If we were unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in any of our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of those agreements. As a result, borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to make necessary payments to the lenders or that we would be able to find alternative financing. Even if we were able to obtain alternative financing, there can be no assurance that it would be on terms that are acceptable. We have substantial debt, which may hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our substantial debt may have important consequences, including the following: · the ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments and capital or other expenditures could be impaired or financing may not be available on acceptable terms; · a substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to make principal and interest payments on outstanding debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; · a substantial decrease in cash flows from operating activities or an increase in expenses could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements and force modifications to operations; · We have more debt than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and · substantial debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. 48 We had substantial deficiencies of earnings to cover fixed charges of approximately $722 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. We had deficiencies of earnings to cover fixed charges of $634 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, $409 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, $681 million for the fiscal year 2003 and $936 million for the fiscal year 2002. We may not be able to repay our existing debt; failure to do so or refinance the debt could prevent us from implementing our strategy and realizing anticipated profits. If we were unable to refinance our debt or to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, our ability to operate our business would be impaired. As of December 31, 2006, not taking into account capital markets transaction that we engaged in during the first quarter 2007, we had an aggregate of approximately $7.362 billion of long-term debt on a consolidated basis and including current maturities, and approximately $374 million of stockholders’ equity. Our ability to make interest and principal payments on our debt and borrow additional funds on favorable terms depends on the future performance of the business. If we do not have enough cash flow in the future to make interest or principal payments on our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a part of our debt or to raise additional capital. We cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance our debt or raise additional capital on acceptable terms. Restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements limit our ability to conduct our business and could prevent us from obtaining needed funds in the future. Our debt and financing arrangements contain a number of significant limitations that restrict our ability to, among other things: · borrow additional money or issue guarantees; · pay dividends or other distributions to stockholders; · make investments; · create liens on assets; · sell assets; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and · engage in mergers or consolidations. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock, we may be unable to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income taxes. As of December 31, 2006, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $7.0 billion for federal income tax purposes. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock that result in a cumulative ownership change of more than 50 percentage points by 5-percent stockholders over a three-year period as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable regulations, annual limitations would be imposed with respect to our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain current deductions against any taxable income it achieves in future periods. We have entered into transactions over the last three years resulting in significant cumulative changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Additional transactions that we enter into as well as transactions by existing 5% stockholders that we do not participate in could cause us to incur a 50 percentage point ownership change by 5% stockholders and, if we trigger the above-noted Internal Revenue Code imposed 49 limitations, such transactions would prevent us from fully utilizing net operating loss carryforwards and certain current deductions to reduce income taxes. The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenue and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. The primary factors, among other things, that may affect our quarterly results include the following: · The timing of costs associated with our integration activities with respect to our recently completed acquisitions; · demand for communications services; · loss of customers or the ability to attract new customers; · changes in pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; · costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; · changes in regulatory rulings; and · general economic conditions as well as those specific to the communications and related industries. A delay in generating revenue or the timing of recognizing revenue and expenses could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. It is possible that in some future quarters our results may be below analysts and investors expectations. In these circumstances, the price of our common stock will likely decrease. Increased scrutiny of financial disclosure, particularly in the telecommunications industry in which we operate, could adversely affect investor confidence, and any restatement of earnings could increase litigation risks and limit our ability to access the capital markets. Congress, the SEC, other regulatory authorities and the media are intensely scrutinizing a number of financial reporting issues and practices. Although all businesses face uncertainty with respect to how the U.S. financial disclosure regime may be impacted by this process, particular attention has been focused recently on the telecommunications industry and companies’ interpretations of generally accepted accounting principles. If we were required to restate our financial statements as a result of a determination that we had incorrectly applied generally accepted accounting principles, that restatement could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or the trading price of our securities. The recent scrutiny regarding financial reporting has also resulted in an increase in litigation in the telecommunications industry. There can be no assurance that any such litigation against us would not materially adversely affect our business or the trading price of our securities. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and subsequent events, there has been considerable uncertainty in world financial markets. The full effect on the financial markets of these events, as well as concerns about future terrorist attacks, is not yet known. They could, however, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 50 There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly affect our physical facilities or those of our customers. These events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our business. Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect the business. We have operations and investments outside of the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries, that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: · general economic, social and political conditions; · the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; · tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in the U.S.; · foreign currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments; · foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; · difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines; · difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and · changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. We may issue shares of our common stock at prices or for consideration that is greater than or less than the price at which we are offering our common stock in this offering. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, your percentage ownership of our common stock would be reduced. If a large number of shares of our common stock is sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital We cannot predict what effect, if any, future issuances by us of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, shares of our common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition, may not be subject to resale restrictions. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if certain large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock in connection with an acquisition, sell all or a significant portion of their shares of common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock in the capital markets. 51 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws could limit the share price and delay a change of management Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. These provisions, among other things: · prohibit stockholder action by written consent in place of a meeting; · limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; limit the right of stockholders to present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; and · authorize the board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders. In addition, the terms of most of our long term debt require that upon a “change of control,” as defined in the agreements that contain the terms and conditions of the long term debt, we make an offer to purchase the outstanding long term debt at either 100% or 101% of the aggregate principal amount of that long term debt. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change management. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: · the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock; · quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results; · changes in estimated earnings by securities analysts; · market conditions in the communications services industry; · announcement and performance by competitors; · regulatory actions; and · general economic conditions. In addition, in recent months the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Those market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the market price or liquidity of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 