Item 1A. Risk Factors. In evaluating the Company, the risks described below and the matters described in “Forward-Looking Statements” should be considered carefully. Such risks and matters could significantly and adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company faces significant competition in the retail industry. The Company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. Although the Company is one of the nation’s largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and Internet and mail-order retailers. Competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. If the Company does not compete effectively with regard to these factors, its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 6 The Company’s sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. The fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. The Company’s sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. The Company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. Any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business. Consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the Company’s control, including competition from store-based retailers, mail-order and Internet companies, consumer confidence and preferences, consumers’ disposable income, weather that affects consumer traffic and general economic conditions. The Company’s business could be affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the Company’s stores are located could adversely affect the Company’s business. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rain storms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the Company’s customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes could severely damage or destroy one or more of the Company’s stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting the Company’s business operations. The Company’s business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the Company’s inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. The Company’s business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. The Company has in the past experienced significant fluctuations in its revenues from quarter to quarter with a disproportionate amount of revenues falling in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. In addition, the Company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of November and December in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. The Company’s business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. Unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the Company’s business. For example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, oil prices and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could adversely impact the Company’s growth. In addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest, including terrorist activities and worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. 7 The benefits expected to be realized from the May acquisition are subject to various risks, and the Company’s failure to integrate May successfully or on a timely basis into the Company’s operations could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company’s acquisition of May during the third quarter of 2005 was a significant acquisition for the Company. The Company’s success in fully realizing the anticipated benefits from the acquisition will depend in large part on achieving anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. There can be no assurance that these synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects will materialize, and the Company’s ability to benefit from the May acquisition is subject to both the risks affecting the Company’s business generally and the difficulties associated with integrating large business organizations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company’s execution of its post-merger strategy to rebrand May stores will improve its operating performance. The failure of the Company to realize the benefits expected to result from the May acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s growth may strain operations, which could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial performance. With the acquisition of May, the Company’s business has grown dramatically. Accordingly, sales, number of stores and number of associates have grown and likely will continue to grow. This growth places significant demands on management and operational systems. If the Company is unable to effectively manage its growth, operational inefficiencies could occur and, as a result, the Company’s business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. The Company’s advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,076 million for 2005. The Company’s business depends on high customer traffic in its stores and effective marketing. The Company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. There can be no assurance as to the Company’s continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. A material disruption in the Company’s computer systems could adversely affect the Company’s business or results of operations. The Company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. The Company’s computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by the Company’s employees. If the Company’s computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the Company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the Company may suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. Any material interruption in the Company’s computer systems could adversely affect its business or results of operations. 8 If the Company is unable to attract and retain quality associates, its business could be adversely affected. The Company’s business is dependent upon attracting and retaining a large and growing number of quality associates. Many of these associates are in entry level or part time positions with historically high rates of turnover. The Company’s ability to meet its labor needs while controlling its costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. Changes that adversely impact the Company’s ability to attract and retain quality associates could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company is subject to numerous regulations that could adversely affect its business. The Company is subject to customs, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. Although the Company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the Company’s knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the Company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s business. Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the Company’s business or financial condition. The Company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, which may change from time to time. In addition, the Company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial condition. Factors beyond the Company’s control could affect the Company’s stock price. The Company’s stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include: • general economic and stock market conditions; • risks relating to the Company’s business and its industry, including those discussed above; • strategic actions by the Company or its competitors; • variations in the Company’s quarterly results of operations; • future sales of the Company’s common stock; and • investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the Company’s common stock relative to other investment alternatives. In addition, the Company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. If the analysts that regularly follow the Company’s stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the Company’s stock price could decline. Also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the Company’s common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price for Company common stock. 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 