Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may affect our operations. These risks and uncertainties could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These risks and uncertainties, which we consider to be most relevant to our specific business activities, include, but are not limited to, the following, as well as additional risk factors included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our Business Relies On Residential Construction And Remodeling Activity. Our results of operations are affected by levels of home improvement and residential construction activity, including repair and remodeling and new construction. Interest rates, energy costs, consumer confidence, general and regional economic conditions, and weather conditions and natural disasters can significantly impact levels of home improvement and residential construction activity. We have increased our emphasis on new product development in recent years, and continue to focus on organic growth. Consequently, our financial performance will, in part, reflect our success in implementing our growth strategies in our existing markets and in introducing new products. We Rely On Key Customers. The size and importance to the Company of individual customers is significant. Larger customers can effect significant changes in their volume of purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the terms and conditions on which we do business. Our sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s Companies were approximately 62% of total Company sales for fiscal 2006. Although builders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for the Company’s products, an unplanned loss of a substantial portion of our sales to The Home Depot or Lowe’s Companies could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Our Operating Results Are Affected By The Cost And Availability Of Raw Material. Because we are dependent on outside suppliers for our raw material needs, we must obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials from our suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. We have no long-term supply contracts with our key suppliers. A substantial decrease in the availability of products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our results of operations. We May Not Be Able To Maintain Or Raise Prices In Response To Inflation And Increasing Costs. Short-term market and competitive pressures may prohibit us from raising prices to offset inflationary raw material and freight costs, which would adversely impact profit margins. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 3 