Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors could adversely impact our business. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements (i) we make in registration statements, periodic reports and other filings with the SEC and from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written reports or communications, and (ii) made orally from time to time by our personnel and representatives. The homebuilding industry is experiencing a prolonged and severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and adversely affect our business and results of operations compared to prior periods. In recent years, many of our served markets and the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole have experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale, conditions that generally began in 2006. In many markets, a rapid increase in new and existing home prices in the years leading up to and including 2006 reduced housing affordability relative to consumer incomes and tempered buyer demand. At the same time, investors and speculators reduced their purchasing activity and instead stepped up their efforts to sell residential property they had earlier acquired. These trends, which have been more pronounced in markets that had experienced the greatest levels of price appreciation, have resulted in overall fewer home sales, greater cancellations of home purchase agreements by buyers, higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use by homebuilders, speculators, investors and others of discounts, incentives, price concessions and other marketing efforts to close home sales since 2006, compared to the several years leading up to and including 2006. These negative supply and demand trends have been exacerbated since 2008 by increasing sales of lender-owned homes, a severe downturn in general economic conditions, rising unemployment, turmoil in credit and consumer lending markets and tighter lending standards. Reflecting the impact of this difficult environment, we, like many other homebuilders, have experienced to varying degrees since the housing market downturn began, declines in net orders, decreases in the average selling price of new homes we have sold and delivered and reduced margins relative to prior years, and we have generated operating losses. Though we have seen some improvement in net orders and margins in 2009, we can provide no assurances that the homebuilding market or our business will improve substantially in the near future. If economic conditions and employment remain weak and mortgage foreclosures, delinquencies and short sales continue rising in 2010, there would likely be a corresponding adverse effect on our business and our results of operations, including, but not limited to, the number of homes delivered and the amount of revenues we generate. Further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements or further turmoil in credit and mortgage lending markets could adversely affect the availability of credit for some potential purchasers of our homes and thereby reduce our sales. In recent years, the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries have experienced significant instability due to, among other things, delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures on home loans and a resulting decline in their market value, particularly subprime and adjustable-rate loans. A number of providers, purchasers and insurers of mortgage loans have gone out of business or exited the market. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and others have questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity, increased credit risk premiums and regulatory actions, including greater government purchases or insurance of mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime, adjustable-rate and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to stop offering such loan products. Fewer loan products and providers and tighter loan qualifications, in turn, make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes or the purchase of existing homes from potential move-up buyers who wish to purchase one of our homes. In general, these developments have resulted in reduced demand for our homes and slowed any general improvement in the housing market. Furthermore, they have resulted in reduced demand for mortgage loans originated through our KB Home Mortgage joint venture and a corresponding decline in origination-related fee income. These reductions in demand have had a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations in 2009 that is expected to continue in 2010. Many of our homebuyers obtain financing for their home purchases from KB Home Mortgage. Our partner, a Bank of America, N.A. subsidiary, provides the loan products that the joint venture offers to our homebuyers. If our partner refuses or is unable to make loan products available to the joint venture to provide to our homebuyers, our home sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry have had limited success, and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. While we have been successful in generating positive operating cash flow and reducing our inventories in recent years, we have done so at significantly reduced gross profit levels and have incurred significant asset impairment charges compared to prior periods. Moreover, many of our strategic initiatives to generate cash and reduce our inventories have involved lowering overhead through workforce reductions, for which we incurred significant costs, and reducing our active community counts through strategic wind downs or market exits, curbs in development and sales of land interests. These strategic steps have resulted in our generating to varying degrees fewer net orders, homes delivered and revenues compared to prior periods, and have contributed to the net losses we have recognized in recent years. Though we have seen some improvement in our net orders for 2009, there can be no assurance that positive net order trends will continue and, notwithstanding our sales strategies, we have experienced volatility in cancellations of home purchase contracts in recent years. We believe that the volatile cancellation rates have largely reflected weak homebuyer confidence based on sustained home price declines, increased offerings of sales incentives in the marketplace for both new and existing homes and generally poor economic and employment conditions, all of which have prompted homebuyers to forgo or delay home purchases. The more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also led to lower demand for new homes and cancellations. Many of these factors affecting new orders and cancellation rates are beyond our control. It is uncertain how long and to what degree these factors, and the reduced sales levels and volatility in cancellations we have experienced, will continue. To the extent that they do, we expect that they will have a negative effect on our business and our results of operations. Our business is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. Our business can be substantially affected by adverse changes in general economic or business conditions that are outside of our control, including changes in: • short- and long-term interest rates; • the availability of financing for homebuyers; • consumer confidence generally and the confidence of potential homebuyers in particular; • U.S. and global financial system and credit market stability; • private and federal mortgage financing programs and federal and state regulation of lending and appraisal practices; • federal and state income tax provisions, including provisions for the deduction of mortgage interest payments; • housing demand from population growth and demographic changes, among other factors; • the supply of available new or existing homes (including lender-owned homes acquired through foreclosures and short sales) and other housing alternatives, such as apartments and other residential rental property; • employment levels and job and personal income growth; and • real estate taxes. Adverse changes in these conditions may affect our business nationally or may be more prevalent or concentrated in particular regions or localities in which we operate. In recent years, unfavorable changes in many of these factors negatively affected all of our served markets, and we expect the widespread nature of the downturn in the housing market to continue into 2010. A continued downturn in the economy and employment levels would likely worsen the unfavorable trends the housing market has experienced since 2006. Weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions, can also impair our homebuilding business on a local or regional basis. Civil unrest or acts of terrorism can also have a negative effect on our business. Fluctuating lumber prices and shortages, as well as shortages or price fluctuations in other building materials or commodities, can have an adverse effect on our business. Similarly, labor shortages or disruptions among key trades, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers, can delay the delivery of our homes and increase our costs. The potential difficulties described above can cause demand and prices for our homes to diminish or cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices 13 Table of Contents because of market conditions and because the price of each home we sell is usually set several months before the home is delivered, as our customers typically sign their home purchase contracts before construction begins. The potential difficulties described above could cause some homebuyers to cancel or refuse to honor their home purchase contracts altogether. In fact, reflecting the difficult conditions in our served markets, we have experienced volatile home purchase contract cancellation rates in recent years and we may experience similar volatility in 2010. Supply shortages and other risks related to demand for building materials and/or skilled labor could increase costs and delay deliveries. There is a high level of competition in the homebuilding industry for skilled labor and building materials. Increased costs or shortages in building materials or skilled labor could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into home purchase contracts, as the purchase contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, and may be signed well in advance of when construction commences. Further, we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs because of market conditions. Sustained increases in construction costs due, among other things, to pricing competition for materials and skilled labor may, over time, decrease our margins. Inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs that we may not be able to recover, particularly if sales prices decrease. Inflation can have an adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations because increasing costs for land, materials and skilled labor may call for us to increase home sales prices to maintain satisfactory margins. However, if the current challenging and highly competitive conditions in the housing market persist, we may need to decrease our selling prices in an attempt to stimulate sales. Our lowering of selling prices, in addition to impacting our margins, may also reduce the value of our land inventory and make it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land with selling prices or, if we choose, in disposing of land assets. In addition, depressed land values may cause us to forfeit deposits on land option contracts if we cannot satisfactorily renegotiate the purchase price of the optioned land. We may incur noncash charges for inventory impairments if the value of our owned inventory is reduced or for land option contract abandonments if we choose not to exercise land option contracts. Reduced home sales may impair our ability to recoup development costs or force us to absorb additional costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. Depending on the stage of development, these include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. If the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows or falls, which has occurred throughout the present housing market downturn, we may incur additional costs and it will take a longer period of time for us to recover our costs. Also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that may be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. Because of current market conditions, we have strategically terminated some of these options, resulting in the forfeiture of deposits and unrecoverable due diligence and development costs. The value of the land and housing inventory we own or control may fall significantly and our profits may decrease. The value of the land and housing inventory we currently own or control depends on market conditions, including estimates of future demand for, and the revenues that can be generated from, such inventory. The market value of our land inventory can vary considerably because there is often a significant amount of time between our initial acquisition or optioning of land and the delivery of homes on that land. The downturn in the housing market, which has significantly depressed home sales and selling prices, has caused the fair value of certain of our owned or controlled inventory to fall, in some cases well below the estimated fair value at the time we acquired it. Because of our assessments of fair value, we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our inventory, including inventory that we have previously written down, and take corresponding noncash charges against our earnings to reflect the impaired value. We have also abandoned our interests in certain land inventory that no longer meets our internal investment standards, which also required us to take noncash charges. If the current downturn in the housing market continues, we may need to take additional charges against our earnings for inventory impairments or land option contract abandonments, or both. Any such noncash charges would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Some homebuyers may cancel their home purchases because the required deposits are small and generally refundable. Our backlog information reflects the number of homes for which we have entered into a purchase contract with a customer, but not yet delivered the home. Our home purchase contracts typically require only a small deposit, and in many states, the deposit is fully refundable at any time prior to closing. If the prices for new homes decline, competitors increase their use of sales incentives, interest rates increase, the availability of mortgage financing diminishes or there is continued weakness or a further downturn in local or regional economies or the national economy, homebuyers may terminate their existing home purchase contracts with us in order to negotiate for a lower price, explore other options or because they cannot, or become reluctant to, complete the purchase. In recent years, we have experienced elevated and volatile cancellation rates, in part because of these reasons. Elevated and volatile cancellation rates due to these conditions, or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our long-term success depends on the availability of improved lots and undeveloped land that meet our land investment criteria. The availability of finished and partially developed lots, and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal investment standards depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of attractive land could increase, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations including, but not limited to, our margins, and our ability to maintain ownership or control of a three-to-four year supply of developable land inventory. Home prices and sales activity in the particular markets and regions in which we do business affect our results of operations because our business is concentrated in these markets. Home prices and sales activity in some of our key served markets have declined from time to time for market-specific reasons, including adverse weather, lack of affordability or economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or decline of key industries and employers. If home prices or sales activity decline in one or more of our key served markets, particularly in Arizona, California, Florida, Nevada or Texas, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our overall results of operations may be adversely affected. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs or regulation could lower demand for our homes. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes. Prior to 2006, historically low interest rates and the increased availability of specialized mortgage products, including mortgage products requiring no or low down payments, and interest-only and adjustable-rate mortgages, made homebuying more affordable for a number of customers and more available to customers with lower credit scores. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs, as discussed above, may lead to fewer mortgage loans being provided, higher down payment requirements or monthly mortgage costs, or a combination of the foregoing, and, as a result, reduce demand for our homes. Increased interest rates can also hinder our ability to realize our backlog because our home purchase contracts provide our customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event they cannot arrange for adequate financing. As a result of the turbulence in the credit markets and mortgage finance industry in 2008, the federal government has taken on a significant role in supporting mortgage lending through its conservatorship of the Federal National Mortgage Association (also known as Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (also known as Freddie Mac), both of which purchase home mortgages and mortgage-backed securities originated by mortgage lenders, and its insurance of mortgages originated by lenders through the Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) and the Veterans Administration (“VA”). FHA-backing of mortgages has recently been particularly important to the mortgage finance industry and to our business. In 2009, 63% of our homebuyers that chose to finance with KB Home Mortgage purchased a home using a FHA-backed loan. In addition, the Federal Reserve has purchased a sizeable amount of mortgage-backed securities in part to stabilize mortgage interest rates and to support the market for mortgage-backed securities. The availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including the consumer interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected by a curtailment or ceasing of the federal government’s mortgage-related programs or policies. The Federal Reserve, for example, has announced that it expects to end its purchases of mortgage-backed securities in early 15 Table of Contents 2010. The FHA recently reported that its cash reserves have fallen below legal requirements due primarily to defaults on mortgages it has insured and, as a result, it has and may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures. Due to growing federal budget deficits, the U.S. Treasury may not be able to continue supporting the mortgage-related activities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the FHA and the VA at present levels. Because the availability of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA- and VA-backed mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce our home sales and adversely affect our results of operations, including the income we earn from KB Home Mortgage. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations, under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as some policy makers have discussed, by eliminating or substantially reducing these income tax benefits, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for and/or sales prices of new homes. Moreover, in 2009, our home sales increased in part because of federal and state tax credits made available to certain qualifying homebuyers. These tax credits are expected to be eliminated or curtailed in 2010,which could adversely affect our net orders, cancellation rates and results of operations in 2010. We are subject to substantial legal and regulatory requirements regarding the development of land, the homebuilding process and protection of the environment, which can cause us to suffer delays and incur costs associated with compliance and which can prohibit or restrict homebuilding activity in some regions or areas. Our homebuilding business is heavily regulated and subject to an increasing amount of local, state and federal regulation concerning zoning, resource protection and other environmental impacts, building design, construction and similar matters. These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that oversee these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of a specified project or a number of projects in particular markets. We may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to building moratoria and permitting requirements in any of the areas in which we operate. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment, and in 2008 we entered into a consent decree with the EPA and certain states concerning our storm water pollution prevention practices. These laws and regulations, the enactment or implementation of new environmental laws or regulations, and the consent decree may cause delays in our construction and delivery of new homes, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain regions or areas. In addition, environmental laws may impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances whether or not the developer or owner of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances. The presence of those substances on our properties may prevent us from selling our homes and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or lawsuits brought by private parties, for hazardous or toxic substances on properties and lots that we have sold in the past. Further, a significant portion of our business is conducted in California, one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country. Therefore, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than other homebuilders with a less significant California presence. The mortgage banking operations of KB Home Mortgage are heavily regulated and subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies. There are a number of federal and state statutes and regulations which, among other things, prohibit discrimination, impose various disclosure obligations, establish underwriting guidelines that include obtaining inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and fix maximum loan amounts. A finding that KB Home Mortgage materially violated any of the foregoing laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations to the extent it impacts the income we earn from our equity interest in the joint venture. We are subject to a consent order that we entered into with the Federal Trade Commission in 1979 and related consent decrees that were entered into in 1991 and 2005. Pursuant to the consent order and the related consent decrees, 16 Table of Contents we provide explicit warranties on the quality of our homes, follow certain guidelines in advertising and provide certain disclosures to prospective purchasers of our homes. A finding that we have significantly violated the consent order and/or the related consent decrees could result in substantial liabilities or penalties and could limit our ability to sell homes in certain markets. Homebuilding and financial services are very competitive, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, building materials, skilled management and trade labor. We compete in each of our served markets with other local, regional and national homebuilders, often within larger subdivisions containing portions designed, planned and developed by such homebuilders. These homebuilders may also have long-standing relationships with local labor, materials suppliers or land sellers, which may provide an advantage in their respective regions or local markets. We also compete with other housing alternatives, such as existing home sales (including lender-owned homes acquired through foreclosure or short sales) and rental housing. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry can result in: • our delivering fewer homes; • our selling homes at lower prices; • our offering or increasing sales incentives, discounts or price concessions; • our experiencing lower profit margins; • declining new home sales or increasing cancellations by homebuyers of their home purchase contracts with us; • impairments in the value of our land inventory and other assets; • difficulty in acquiring desirable land that meets our investment return criteria, and in selling our interests in land that no longer meet such criteria on favorable terms; • difficulty in our acquiring raw materials and skilled management and labor at acceptable prices; or • delays in construction of our homes. These competitive conditions may adversely affect our business and financial results by decreasing our revenues, increasing our costs and/or diminishing growth in our local or regional homebuilding business. In the current downturn in the homebuilding industry, actions taken by our new home and housing alternative competitors are reducing the effectiveness of our efforts to achieve pricing stability, generate home sales, and reduce our inventory levels. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. In the ordinary course of our homebuilding business, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims. We record warranty and other liabilities for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our served markets and our judgment of the risks associated with the types of homes we build. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers’ compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. Through our captive insurance subsidiary, we record expenses and liabilities for estimated costs required to cover our self-insured retention and deductible amounts under these policies, and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our liabilities will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future, or that any potential inadequacies will not have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted, increasing our risks, and become more costly. In 2009, we incurred additional warranty-related charges associated with the repair of approximately 230 homes primarily delivered in 2006 and 2007 and located in Florida and Louisiana that were identified as containing or suspected of containing allegedly defective drywall manufactured in China. We are continuing to review whether there are additional homes delivered in Florida, Louisiana or other locations that contain or may contain this drywall material. Based on the results of our review, we have not identified any homes outside of Florida and Louisiana that contain this drywall material. Depending on the outcome of our review and our actual claims experience, we may incur additional 17 Table of Contents warranty-related costs and further increase our warranty liability in future periods. In addition, we have been named as a defendant in one lawsuit relating to this drywall material, and we may in the future be subject to other similar litigation or claims that could cause us to incur significant costs. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results fluctuate. We have experienced seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We typically do not commence significant construction on a home before a home purchase contract has been signed with a homebuyer. Historically, a significant percentage of our home purchase contracts are entered into in the spring and summer months, and a corresponding significant percentage of our homes delivered occur in the fall and winter months. Construction of our homes typically requires approximately four months and weather delays that often occur in late winter and early spring may extend this period. As a result of these combined factors, we historically have experienced uneven quarterly results, with lower revenues and operating income generally during the first and second quarters of the year. During the present housing market downturn, however, we have experienced lower sales in the spring and summer months and correspondingly fewer homes delivered in the fall and winter months as compared to earlier periods. With the current difficult market conditions expected to continue into 2010, we can make no assurances that our normal seasonal patterns will occur in the near future. Failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. The Credit Facility and, to a lesser degree, the indenture governing our outstanding senior notes impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The restrictions in the Credit Facility primarily relate to cash dividends, stock repurchases, incurrence of indebtedness, creation of liens and asset dispositions, defaults with respect to other debt obligations and require maintenance of a maximum debt to equity (or leverage) ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, and a minimum level of tangible net worth. The indenture governing our senior notes does not contain any financial maintenance covenants, but does contain certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur secured indebtedness; engage in sale-leaseback transactions involving property or assets above a specified value; or engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of assets. If we fail to comply with these restrictions or covenants, the holders of those debt instruments or the banks, as applicable, could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or could demand that we compensate them for waiving instances of noncompliance. In addition, a default under any series of our senior notes or the Credit Facility could cause a default with respect to our other notes or the Credit Facility, as the case may be, and result in the acceleration of the maturity of all such defaulted indebtedness and our inability to borrow under the Credit Facility. Moreover, we may curtail our investment activities and other uses of cash to maintain compliance with these restrictions and covenants. We participate in certain unconsolidated joint ventures where we may be adversely impacted by the failure of the unconsolidated joint venture or the other partners in the unconsolidated joint venture to fulfill their obligations. We have investments in and commitments to certain unconsolidated joint ventures with unrelated strategic partners to acquire and develop land and, in some cases, build and deliver homes. To finance these activities, our unconsolidated joint ventures often obtain loans from third-party lenders that are secured by the unconsolidated joint venture’s assets. In certain instances, we and the other partners in an unconsolidated joint venture provide guarantees and indemnities to lenders with respect to the unconsolidated joint venture’s debt, which may be triggered under certain conditions when the unconsolidated joint venture fails to fulfill its obligations under its loan agreements. Because we do not have a controlling interest in these unconsolidated joint ventures, we depend heavily on the other partners in each unconsolidated joint venture to both (i) cooperate and make mutually acceptable decisions regarding the conduct of the business and affairs of the unconsolidated joint venture and (ii) ensure that they, and the unconsolidated joint venture, fulfill their respective obligations to us and to third parties. If the other partners in our unconsolidated joint ventures do not provide such cooperation or fulfill these obligations due to their financial condition, strategic business interests (which may be contrary to ours), or otherwise, we may be required to spend additional resources (including payments under the guarantees we have provided to the unconsolidated joint ventures’ lenders) and suffer losses, each of which could be significant. Moreover, our ability to recoup such expenditures and losses by exercising remedies against such partners may be limited due to potential legal defenses they may have, their respective financial condition and other circumstances. 18 Table of Contents The downturn in the housing market and the continuation of the disruptions in the credit markets could limit our ability to access capital and increase our costs of capital or stockholder dilution. We have historically funded our homebuilding and financial services operations with internally generated cash flows and external sources of debt and equity financing. However, during this downturn in the housing market, we have relied primarily on the positive operating cash flow we have generated to meet our working capital needs and repay outstanding indebtedness. While we generated positive operating cash flow in 2009, principally through the receipt of federal income tax refunds and from home and land sales, the persistent weakness in the housing markets and the disruption in the credit markets since 2008 have reduced the availability and increased the costs to us of other sources of liquidity. Market conditions may significantly limit our ability to replace or refinance indebtedness, particularly due to the lowering of our senior debt ratings in 2009 by three rating agencies. Pricing in the public debt markets has increased substantially, and the terms of future issuances of indebtedness by us may be more restrictive than the terms governing our current indebtedness. Moreover, due to the deterioration in the credit markets and the uncertainties that exist in the general economy and for homebuilders in particular, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace existing financing or secure additional sources of financing, if necessary, on terms satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, the significant decline in our stock price since 2006, the ongoing volatility in the stock markets and the reduction in our stockholders’ equity relative to our debt could also impede our access to the equity markets or increase the amount of dilution our stockholders would experience should we seek or need to raise capital through issuance of equity. While we believe we can meet our forecasted capital requirements from our cash resources, expected future cash flow and the sources of financing that we anticipate will be available to us, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so, particularly if current difficult housing or credit market or economic conditions continue or deteriorate further. The effects on our business, liquidity and financial results of these conditions could be material and adverse to us. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Since the end of our 2007 fiscal year, we have generated significant net operating losses (“NOLs”), and we may generate additional NOLs in 2010. Under federal tax laws, we can use our NOLs (and certain related tax credits) to reduce our future taxable income for up to 20 years, after which they expire for such purposes. Until they expire, we can carry forward our NOLs (and certain related tax credits) that we do not use in any particular year to reduce our taxable income in future years. The benefits of our NOLs would be reduced or eliminated if we experience an “ownership change,” as determined under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 (“Section 382”). A Section 382 ownership change occurs if a stockholder or a group of stockholders who are deemed to own at least 5% of our common stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of NOLs we can use to reduce our taxable income equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the ownership change (reduced by certain items specified in Section 382) and the federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. A number of special rules apply to calculating this annual limit. While the complexity of Section 382’s provisions and the limited knowledge any public company has about the ownership of its publicly-traded stock make it difficult to determine whether an ownership change has occurred, we currently believe that an ownership change has not occurred. However, if an ownership change were to occur, the annual limit Section 382 may impose could result in a material amount of our NOLs expiring unused. This would significantly impair the value of our NOL asset and, as a result, have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. During 2009, our stockholders approved an amendment to our restated certificate of incorporation that is designed to block transfers of our common stock that could result in an ownership change, and a rights agreement pursuant to which we have issued certain stock purchase rights with terms designed to deter transfers of our common stock that could result in an ownership change. However, these measures cannot guarantee complete protection against an ownership change and it remains possible that one may occur. 19 Table of Contents A decline in our tangible net worth and the resulting increase in our leverage ratio may place burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, may restrict our ability to operate and may prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. The amount of our debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; • impact our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; • place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of continued weakness or a further downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. Our business is substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues, earnings and cash flows vary with the level of general economic activity and competition in the markets in which we operate. Our business could also be affected by financial, political, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. A higher interest rate on our debt could adversely affect our operating results. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and external financing may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations, fulfill the financial or operational obligations we may have under certain unconsolidated joint venture transactions, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Should we not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or have external financing available to us, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt obligations on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all, or raise capital through equity issuances that would dilute existing stockholders’ interests. Our ability to obtain external financing could be adversely affected by a negative change in our credit rating by a third party rating agency. Our ability to access external sources of financing on favorable terms is a key factor in our ability to fund our operations and to grow our business. As of the date of this report, our credit rating by both Fitch Ratings and Standard and Poor’s Financial Services is BB-, with both maintaining a negative outlook. On June 22, 2009, Moody’s Investor Services lowered our credit rating to B1 from Ba3 and also maintained a negative outlook. Further downgrades of our credit rating by any of these principal credit rating agencies may make it more difficult and costly for us to access external financing. We may have difficulty in continuing to obtain the additional financing required to operate and develop our business. Our homebuilding operations require significant amounts of cash and/or available credit. It is not possible to predict the future terms or availability of additional capital. Moreover, our outstanding senior notes and the Credit Facility contain provisions that may restrict the amount and nature of debt we may incur in the future. The Credit Facility limits our ability to borrow additional funds by placing a maximum cap on our leverage ratio. Under the most restrictive of these provisions, at November 30, 2009, we would have been permitted to incur up to $1.42 billion of consolidated total indebtedness, as defined in the Credit Facility. This maximum amount exceeded our actual consolidated total indebtedness at November 30, 2009 by $873.5 million. In addition, the Credit Facility limits our ability to borrow senior indebtedness, as defined in the Credit Facility, subject to a specified borrowing base. At November 30, 2009, we would have been permitted to incur up to $2.13 billion of senior indebtedness under the Credit Facility. This maximum amount exceeded our actual total senior indebtedness at November 30, 2009 by $474.7 million. There can be no assurance that we can actually borrow up to these maximum amounts of total consolidated indebtedness or senior indebtedness at any time, as our ability to borrow additional funds, and to raise additional capital through other means, also depends on conditions in the capital markets and our perceived credit worthiness, as discussed above. If conditions in the capital markets change significantly, it could reduce our ability to generate sales and may hinder our future growth and results of operations. Potential federal and state regulations limiting the investment activities of financial institutions could also impact our ability to obtain additional financing on a reasonable basis. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain performance bonds. In the course of developing our communities, we are often required to provide to various municipalities and other government agencies performance bonds to secure the completion of our projects. Our ability to obtain such bonds and 20 Table of Contents the cost to do so depend on our credit rating, overall market capitalization, available capital, past operational and financial performance, management expertise and other factors, including prevailing surety market conditions and the underwriting practices and resources of performance bond issuers. If we are unable to obtain performance bonds when required or the cost to obtain them increases significantly, we may be unable or significantly delayed in developing a community or communities, and, as a result, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, consolidated cash flows and/or liquidity could be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 