Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and the challenging market conditions previously mentioned, the following important factors could adversely impact our business. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements that we make in registration statements, periodic reports and other filings with the SEC, and that we make from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking and other statements made from time to time by our representatives. The homebuilding industry is experiencing a severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and adversely affect our business and results of operations compared to prior periods. In 2007, many of our served markets and the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole continued to experience a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale, conditions that generally began in 2006. In many markets, a rapid increase in new and existing home prices in the years leading up to and including 2006 reduced housing affordability relative to consumer incomes and tempered buyer 11 Table of Contents demand. At the same time, investors and speculators reduced their purchasing activity and instead stepped up their efforts to sell residential property they had earlier acquired. These trends, which were more pronounced in markets that had experienced the greatest levels of price appreciation, resulted in overall fewer home sales, greater cancellations of home purchase agreements by buyers, higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use by homebuilders, speculators, investors and others of discounts, incentives, price concessions and other marketing efforts to close home sales in 2007 compared to the past several years. Reflecting these demand and supply trends, we, like many other homebuilders, experienced a large drop in net orders, a decline in the selling price of new homes sold and a reduction in our margins in 2007 relative to prior years. We can provide no assurances that the homebuilding market will improve in the near future. In fact, we expect the weakness to continue at least through 2008 and have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry have had limited success, and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. While we have been successful in generating positive operating cash flow and reducing our inventories in 2007, we have done so at significantly reduced gross profit levels and have incurred significant asset impairment charges. These contributed to the net loss we recognized in 2007. Also, in 2007, notwithstanding our sales strategies, we continued to experience an elevated rate of sales contract cancellations. We believe that the elevated cancellation rate largely reflects a decrease in homebuyer confidence, with continued price declines and increases in the level of sales incentives for both new and existing homes prompting homebuyers to forgo or delay home purchases. A more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also led to cancellations. Many of the factors that affect new orders and cancellation rates are beyond our control. It is uncertain how long the reduced sales levels and the increased level of cancellations will continue. Our business is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. Our business can be substantially affected by adverse changes in general economic or business conditions that are outside of our control, including changes in: • short- and long-term interest rates; • the availability of financing for homebuyers; • consumer confidence generally and the confidence of potential homebuyers in particular; • federal mortgage financing programs and federal and state regulation of lending practices; • federal and state income tax provisions, including provisions for the deduction of mortgage interest payments; • housing demand from population growth and demographic changes, among other factors; • the supply of available new or existing homes and other housing alternatives, such as apartments and other residential rental property; • employment levels and job and personal income growth; and • real estate taxes. Adverse changes in these conditions may affect our business nationally or may be more prevalent or concentrated in particular regions or localities in which we operate. In 2007, adverse changes in many of these factors affected all of our markets, and we expect the widespread nature of the downturn in the housing market to continue at least through 2008. A downturn in the economy would likely exacerbate the adverse trends the housing market experienced in 2007. Weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions, can also harm our homebuilding business on a local or regional basis. Civil unrest or acts of terrorism can also have an adverse effect on our business. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuating lumber prices and shortages, as well as shortages or price fluctuations in other building materials or commodities, can have an adverse effect on our business. Similarly, labor shortages or unrest among key trades, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers, can delay the delivery of our homes and increase our costs. The potential difficulties described above can cause demand and prices for our homes to diminish or cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices because of market conditions and because the price of each home is usually set several months before the home is delivered, as our customers typically sign their home purchase contracts before construction begins. The potential difficulties described above could cause some homebuyers to cancel or refuse to honor their home purchase contracts altogether. In fact, reflecting the difficult conditions in our served markets, we continued to experience elevated cancellation rates in 2007 and we may experience similar cancellation rates in 2008. Supply shortages and other risks related to demand for building materials and/or skilled labor could increase costs and delay deliveries. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and building materials. Increased costs or shortages in building materials or skilled labor could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as the sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, and may be signed well in advance of when construction commences. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. Inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs that we may not be able to recover, particularly if sales prices decrease. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may call for us to increase sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. However, if the current challenging and highly competitive conditions in the homebuilding market persist, we may be required to decrease prices in an attempt to stimulate sales volume. This potential lowering of sales prices, in addition to impacting our margins on new homes, may also reduce the value of our land inventory and make it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land in new home sales prices or, if we choose, in the disposition of land assets. In addition, depressed land values may cause us to forfeit deposits on land option contracts if we cannot satisfactorily renegotiate the purchase price of the optioned land. We may incur non-cash charges for inventory impairments or land option contract abandonments if the value of our inventory is so reduced or if we choose not to exercise land option contracts. Reduced home sales may impair our ability to recoup development costs or force us to absorb additional costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. Depending on the stage of development, these include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. Also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. Because of current market conditions, we have had to terminate some of these options, resulting in the forfeiture of deposits and unrecoverable development costs. The value of the land and housing inventory we own or control may fall significantly and our profits may decrease. The value of the land and housing inventory we currently own or control depends on market conditions, including estimates of future demand for, and the revenues that can be generated from, such inventory. The market value of our land inventory can vary considerably because there is often a significant amount of time between our initial acquisition of land and the delivery of homes on that land. The downturn in the housing market has caused the fair market value of certain of our inventory to fall, in some cases well below the estimated fair market value at the time we acquired it. Depending on our assessment of fair market value, we may need to write down the carrying value of certain of our inventory and take corresponding non-cash charges against our earnings to reflect the impaired value. We may also abandon our interests in certain land inventory that no longer meets our internal investment standards, which would also require us to take non-cash charges. If the current downturn in the housing market continues, we may need to take additional charges against 13 Table of Contents our earnings for abandonments or inventory impairments, or both. Any such non-cash charges would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. If new home prices decline, interest rates increase or there is a downturn in the economy, some homebuyers may cancel their home purchases because the required deposits are small and generally refundable. Our backlog numbers reflect the number of homes for which we have entered into a purchase contract with a customer but not yet delivered the home. Our home purchase contracts typically require only a small deposit, and in many states, the deposit is fully refundable at any time prior to closing. If the prices for new homes decline, competitors increase their use of sales incentives, interest rates increase, the availability of mortgage financing diminishes or there is a downturn in local or regional economies or the national economy, homebuyers may terminate their existing home purchase contracts with us in order to negotiate for a lower price or to explore other options. In 2007 and 2006, we experienced elevated cancellation rates, in part because of these reasons. Additional cancellations could have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our long-term success depends on the availability of improved lots and undeveloped land that meet our land investment criteria. The availability of finished and partially developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal investment criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could increase, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Home prices and sales activity in the particular markets and regions in which we do business affect our results of operations because our business is concentrated in these markets. Home prices and sales activity in some of our key markets have declined from time to time for market-specific reasons, including adverse weather, lack of affordability or economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or decline of key industries and employers. If home prices or sales activity decline in one or more of the key markets in which we operate, particularly in Arizona, California, Florida, Nevada or Texas, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our overall results of operations may be adversely affected. Market conditions in the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries deteriorated significantly in 2007, which adversely affected the availability of credit for some purchasers of our homes, reduced the population of potential mortgage customers and reduced mortgage liquidity. Further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements or further reduced mortgage liquidity could adversely affect the availability of credit for some purchasers of our homes and thereby reduce our sales. During 2007, the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries experienced significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on subprime loans and a resulting decline in the market value of such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity, increased credit risk premiums and regulatory actions. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that do not conform to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA or VA standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications in turn make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes or the purchase of existing homes from potential move-up buyers who wish to purchase one of our homes. In general, these developments have resulted in a reduction in demand for the homes we sell and have delayed any general improvement in the housing market. Furthermore, they have resulted in a reduction in demand for the mortgage loans that we originate through Countrywide KB Home Loans, our joint venture with Countrywide. These reductions in demand have had, and are expected to continue to have, a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations in 2008. 14 Table of Contents Many of our homebuyers obtain financing for their home purchases from Countrywide KB Home Loans. Countrywide provides the loan products that the joint venture offers to our homebuyers. If Countrywide refuses or is unable to make loan products available to the joint venture to provide to our homebuyers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs could lower demand for our homes. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes. In recent years, historically low interest rates and the increased availability of specialized mortgage products, including mortgage products requiring no or low down payments, and interest-only and adjustable rate mortgages, had made homebuying more affordable for a number of customers. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs, as discussed above, may lead to higher down payment requirements or monthly mortgage costs, or both, and could therefore reduce demand for our homes. Increased interest rates can also hinder our ability to realize our backlog because our home purchase contracts provide our customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event they cannot arrange for financing. Because the availability of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA and VA mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce our home sales. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations, under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as some policy makers have discussed recently, eliminating or substantially reducing these income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for and/or sales prices of new homes. We are subject to substantial legal and regulatory requirements regarding the development of land, the homebuilding process and protection of the environment, which can cause us to suffer delays and incur costs associated with compliance and which can prohibit or restrict homebuilding activity in some regions or areas. Our homebuilding business is heavily regulated and subject to an increasing amount of local, state and federal regulation concerning zoning, resource protection and other environmental impacts, building design, construction and similar matters. These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that oversee these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of a specified project or a number of projects in particular markets. We may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to building moratoria in any of the areas in which we operate. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment. These laws and regulations may cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. In addition, environmental laws may impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances whether or not the developer or owner of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances. The presence of those substances on our properties may prevent us from selling our homes and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or lawsuits brought by private parties, for hazardous or toxic substances on properties and lots that we have sold in the past. Further, a significant portion of our business is conducted in California, which is one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country. Therefore, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than other homebuilders with a less significant California presence. The mortgage banking operations of Countrywide KB Home Loans are heavily regulated and subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies. There are a number of 15 Table of Contents federal and state statutes and regulations which, among other things, prohibit discrimination, establish underwriting guidelines that include obtaining inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and fix maximum loan amounts. A finding that we or Countrywide KB Home Loans materially violated any of the foregoing laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to a Consent Order that we entered into with the Federal Trade Commission in 1979 and related Consent Decrees that were entered into in 1991 and 2005. Pursuant to the Consent Order and the related Consent Decrees, we provide explicit warranties on the quality of our homes, follow certain guidelines in advertising and provide certain disclosures to prospective purchasers of our homes. A finding that we have significantly violated the Consent Order and/or the related Consent Decrees could result in substantial liabilities or penalties and could limit our ability to sell homes in certain markets. Homebuilding and financial services are very competitive, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, building materials, skilled management and trade labor. We compete in each of our served markets with other local, regional and national homebuilders, including those with a sales presence on the Internet, often within larger subdivisions containing portions designed, planned and developed by such homebuilders. These homebuilders may also have long-standing relationships with local labor, materials suppliers or land sellers, which may provide an advantage in their respective regions or local markets. We also compete with other housing alternatives, such as existing home sales and rental housing. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry can result in: • fewer homes delivered; • lower selling prices; • our offering or increasing sales incentives, discounts or price concessions; • lower profit margins; • declining new home sales or increasing cancellations by homebuyers of their home purchase contracts with us; • impairments in the value of our inventory, goodwill and other assets; • difficulty in acquiring desirable land that meets our land buying criteria, and in selling our interests in land that no longer meet our investment return criteria on favorable terms; • difficulty in acquiring raw materials and skilled management and labor at acceptable prices; or • delays in construction of our homes. Our financial services business competes with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage banks and other financial institutions. Mortgage lenders with greater access to capital or different lending criteria may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers. When we are affected by these competitive conditions, our business and financial results can be adversely affected by decreased revenues, increased costs and/or diminished growth in our local or regional homebuilding business. In the current downturn in the homebuilding industry, the reactions of our competitors may be reducing the effectiveness of our efforts to achieve pricing stability and reduce our inventory levels. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. In the ordinary course of our homebuilding business, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims. We record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. Through our captive insurance subsidiary, we reserve for costs to cover our self- 16 Table of Contents insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results fluctuate. We have experienced seasonal fluctuations in quarterly operating results. We typically do not commence significant construction on a home before a home purchase contract has been signed with a homebuyer. Historically, a significant percentage of our home purchase contracts are entered into in the spring and summer months, and a corresponding significant percentage of our deliveries occur in the fall and winter months. Construction of our homes typically requires approximately four months and weather delays that often occur in late winter and early spring may extend this period. As a result of these combined factors, we historically have experienced uneven quarterly results, with lower revenues and operating income generally during the first and second quarters of the year. However, the increasingly challenging market conditions we experienced in 2007 resulted in lower sales in the spring and summer months and correspondingly lower deliveries in the fall and winter months as compared to 2006. With the current difficult market conditions expected to continue through at least 2008, we can make no assurances that our normal seasonal patterns will occur in the near future. Failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. Our Credit Facility and the indentures governing our outstanding senior and senior subordinated public notes impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions relate to limits on investments, cash dividends, stock repurchases and other restricted payments, incurrence of indebtedness, creation of liens and asset dispositions, and require maintenance of a maximum debt to equity (or leverage) ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, and a minimum level of tangible net worth. If we fail to comply with these restrictions or covenants, the holders of those debt instruments or the banks, as appropriate, could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or could demand that we compensate them for waiving instances of noncompliance. In addition, a default under the indenture for any of our notes or our Credit Facility could cause a default with respect to our other notes or the Credit Facility, as the case may be, and result in the acceleration of the maturity of all such defaulted indebtedness and our inability to borrow under the Credit Facility. Moreover, we may curtail our investment activities and other uses of cash to maintain compliance with these restrictions and covenants. Our leverage may place burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, may restrict our ability to operate and may prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. The amount of our debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; • impact our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; • place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. Our business is substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues, earnings and cash flows vary with the level of general economic activity and competition in the markets in which we operate. Our business could also be affected by financial, political and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Changes in prevailing interest rates may also affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations because borrowings under our Credit Facility bear interest at floating rates. A higher interest rate on our debt could adversely affect our operating results. 17 Table of Contents Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our Credit Facility in an amount sufficient to pay our debt service obligations, fulfill financial or operational guarantees we have provided for certain unconsolidated joint venture transactions, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Should this occur, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. We may have difficulty in continuing to obtain the additional financing required to operate and develop our business. Our homebuilding operations require significant amounts of cash and/or available credit. It is not possible to predict the future terms or availability of additional capital. Moreover, our outstanding public debt and the Credit Facility contain provisions that may restrict the amount and nature of debt we may incur in the future. The Credit Facility limits our ability to borrow additional funds by placing a maximum cap on our leverage ratio. Under the most restrictive of these provisions, at November 30, 2007, we would have been permitted to incur up to $3.56 billion of total consolidated indebtedness, as defined in the Credit Facility. This maximum amount exceeded our actual total consolidated indebtedness at November 30, 2007 by $2.68 billion. In addition, the Credit Facility limits our ability to borrow senior indebtedness, as defined in the Credit Facility, subject to a specified borrowing base. At November 30, 2007, we would have been permitted to incur up to $3.32 billion of senior indebtedness under the Credit Facility. This maximum amount exceeded our actual total senior indebtedness at November 30, 2007 by $1.66 billion. There can be no assurance that we can actually borrow up to these maximum amounts of total consolidated indebtedness or senior indebtedness at any time, as our ability to borrow additional funds, and to raise additional capital through other means, also depends on conditions in the capital markets and our credit worthiness. If conditions in the capital markets change significantly, it could reduce our ability to generate sales and may hinder our future growth and results of operations. We are involved in government investigations and litigation relating to our past stock option grant practices. The SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) are conducting investigations into our stock option grant practices. In addition, shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed in California state and federal courts relating to our stock option grant practices. It is possible that additional lawsuits may be filed. The investigations and lawsuits have resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial legal and professional fees, and will continue to occupy our time and attention. An adverse outcome to the investigations or one or more of the lawsuits may have a negative effect on our business and our results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 