Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of certain factors, which could affect the financial results of the Company. The Company’s results of operations are affected by the availability of new products. The Company’s business is affected by the release of “hit” music, video and video game titles, which can create fluctuations in sales. It is not possible to determine the timing of these fluctuations or the future availability of hit titles. The Company is dependent upon the major music and movie producers to continue to produce hit products. To the extent that new hit releases are not available, or not available at prices attractive to consumers, or, if manufacturers fail to introduce or delay the introduction of new products, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company’s results of operations may suffer if the Company does not accurately predict consumer acceptance of new product or distribution technologies. The entertainment industry is characterized by changing technology, evolving format standards, frequent new and enhanced product introductions and rapid product obsolescence. These characteristics require that the Company respond quickly to technological changes and understand the impact of these changes on customers’ preferences. If the Company is unable to participate in new product or distribution technologies, its results of operations may suffer. Specifically, the CD and DVD formats have experienced a continuous decline as digital forms of music and video content have become more prevalent. If the Company does not timely adapt to these changing technologies or sufficiently focus on the other core categories, operating results could significantly suffer. Increased competition from existing retailers and alternative distribution channels has adversely affected the Company’s results of operations. The Company competes with a wide variety of entertainment retailers, including deep-discount retailers, mass merchandisers, consumer electronics outlets, internet retailers and independent operators, some of whom have greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company also expects continued growth in competing home entertainment options. Some of these, including the ability to download music, video and video games onto PCs or other devices, or the ability to play video games over the Internet through consoles, could reduce retail sales of CDs, DVDs and video games. If technological advances were to result in significant changes in existing distribution channels for pre-recorded music, video and video games, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the Company’s success depends on our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers. The retail business is highly competitive. In the past the Company has been able to compete successfully by differentiating our customer shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, customer service and marketing efforts. Customer perceptions regarding our stores and our in-stock levels and deep assortment of product are also factors in our ability to compete. No single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross profit and expenses. If we fail to continue to positively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s business is negatively influenced by the general economic conditions and the disruption of capital and credit markets The Company’s performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of discretionary consumer spending, which have continued to deteriorate and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. General economic conditions impacting discretionary 5 consumer spending include, among others, wages and employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on recent severe market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The current downturn in the economy affects retailers disproportionately, as consumers may prioritize reductions in discretionary spending, which could have a direct impact on purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. In addition, reduced consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices, which would have a negative impact on gross profit. The Company cannot predict how long the current economic, capital and credit market conditions will continue and what impact they will have on our business. Disruption of global capital and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources. The current distress in the financial markets has resulted in extreme volatility in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability, and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. We believe that cash provided by sales of merchandise inventory and available borrowing capacity under our credit facility, which expires in April 2013, will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the expiration of this credit facility. The current credit crisis is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this crisis on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to delivery delays or failures. Historically, we have experienced declines and we may continue to experience fluctuation in our level of sales, results from operations and operating cash flow. A variety of factors has historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable stores sales results and profit margins. These factors include general regional and national economic conditions; competition; actions taken by our competitors; consumer trends and preferences; new product introductions and changes in our product mix; timing and effectiveness of promotional events and weather. The Company’s comparable store sales may decline further than they did in Fiscal 2009, and they may vary from quarter to quarter as our business is highly seasonal in nature. Our highest sales and operating income historically occur during the fourth fiscal quarter, which is due in part, to the holiday selling season. The fourth quarter generated approximately 36% of our net sales for Fiscal 2009. Any decrease in our fourth quarter sales, whether because of a slow holiday selling season, unseasonable weather conditions, economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. There is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of sales and earnings growth, and any decline in our future growth or performance could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Failure to open new stores may limit our earnings. Historically, the Company’s growth has come from the opening of new stores and the acquisition of stores. The Company opens new stores if it finds desirable locations and is able to negotiate suitable lease terms. A lack of new store growth may impact the Company’s ability to increase sales and earnings. The Company opened two new stores in Fiscal 2009 and acquired five new stores in the first quarter of 2010. A change in one or more of the Company’s vendors’ policies or the Company’s relationship with those vendors could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is dependent on its vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. If a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, the Company could experience merchandise shortages that could lead to lost sales. The majority of the Company’s purchases come from ten major suppliers. As is standard in its industry, the Company does not maintain long-term contracts with its suppliers but instead makes purchases on an order-by-order basis. If the Company fails to maintain customary trade terms or enjoy positive vendor relations, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. If the Company’s vendors fail to provide marketing and merchandising support at historical levels, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. The manufacturers of entertainment products have typically provided retailers with significant marketing and merchandising support for their products. As part of this support, the Company receives cooperative advertising and other allowances from these vendors. These allowances enable the Company to actively promote and merchandise the products it sells at its stores and on its websites. If the Company’s vendors fail to provide this support at historical levels, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted. 6 Loss of Key Personnel or the inability to attract, train and retain qualified employees could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company believes that its future prospects depend, to a significant extent, on the services of its executive officers, particularly, Robert J. Higgins, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel. The loss of the services of certain of the Company’s executive officers and other key management personnel could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In particular, if we were to lose the services of Robert J. Higgins, we may not able to replace his skills and experience. In addition to our executive officers, the Company’s business is dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain a large number of qualified team members. Many of those team members are employed in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, health care costs and changing demographics. If we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified team members, our operations, customer service levels and support functions could suffer. Those factors, together with increased wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. Because our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns approximately 44.7% of the outstanding Common Stock, he has significant influence and control over the outcome of any vote of the Company’s Shareholders. Robert J. Higgins serves as Chairman of the Board of the Company and its Chief Executive Officer and owns approximately 44.7% of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company, as of March 30, 2010. Accordingly, he will have significant influence on the outcome of any vote of the Company’s Shareholders and on the policies and affairs of the Company. His interests may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. Failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. Significant legislative changes that impact our relationship with our workforce (none of which is represented by unions) could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. Examples of possible legislative changes impacting our relationship with our workforce include changes to an employer’s obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining units are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable employment laws. Additional legal and regulatory requirements increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in damage to our reputation, financial condition and market price of our stock. In August 2000, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a Classified Board Amendment which together with anti-takeover provisions of New York State Law may discourage open market purchases or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for the stock of the Company. This may be adverse to the interests of certain shareholders. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about certain customers. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our customer loyalty programs or participation in other programs. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We could be materially and adversely affected if either of our distribution centers is disrupted. We operate two distribution centers, one in Albany, New York and the other in Carson, California. We ship approximately 72% of our merchandise inventory through our distribution centers. If either of our distribution centers is destroyed, or disrupted for any reason, including because of weather or labor issues, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes to reopen or replace the centers. In addition, our Carson, California distribution center is located in a state where earthquakes are prevalent. Such an event could result in significant physical damage to or closure of this center and delay distribution of merchandise from our suppliers to our center and stores, which could adversely affect our results of operation. We maintain business interruption insurance to protect us from the costs relating to matters such as a shutdown, but our insurance may not be sufficient, or the insurance proceeds may not be timely paid to us, in the event of a shutdown. The Company’s stock price has experienced and could continue to experience volatility and could decline further, resulting in a substantial loss on your investment. Our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors, including recent global economic conditions, broad market fluctuations and public perception of the prospects for music and the home video industry. Changes in our comparable store net sales results could also affect the price of our Common Stock. Failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to comparable store sales, net revenues, operating margins and earnings per share, would likely result in a continued decline in the market price of our stock. 7 In addition, an active trading market for our Common Stock may not be sustained, which could affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares and could depress the market price of their shares. The stock market in general and the market for music and home video related stocks in particular, has been highly volatile. For example, the closing price of our Common Stock has fluctuated between $4.45 and $0.52 from February 2, 2008 and March 31, 2010. As a result, the market price of our Common Stock has been and is likely to remain volatile, and investors in our Common Stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The failure to maintain a minimum closing share price of $1.00 per share of our Common Stock could result in the delisting of our shares on The NASDAQ Global Market, which would harm the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. In order to retain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market we are required by NASDAQ to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. Our stock price is currently above $1.00 and has been since October 6, 2009. However, in the event that our stock did close below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for any 30 consecutive business days, we would regain compliance if our Common Stock closed at or above $1.00 per share for 10 consecutive days during the 180 days immediately following failure to maintain the minimum bid price. If we are unable to do so, our stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, transferred to a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, or delisted from the NASDAQ markets altogether. The failure to maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market could harm the liquidity of the Company’s Common Stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our customers. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop shopping at our stores. Such events could lead to lost sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS The Company has not received within 180 days before January 30, 2010, written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 8 