Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks previously mentioned, the following important factors could adversely impact our business. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements that we make in registration statements, periodic reports and other filings with the SEC, and that we make from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking and other statements made from time to time by our representatives. Our business is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. Our business can be substantially affected by adverse changes in general economic or business conditions that are outside of our control, including changes in: • short- and long-term interest rates; • the availability of financing for homebuyers; • consumer confidence generally and the confidence of potential homebuyers in particular; • federal mortgage financing programs and federal and state regulation of lending practices; • federal and state income tax provisions, including provisions for the deduction of mortgage interest payments; • housing demand; • the supply of available new or existing homes and other housing alternatives, such as apartments and other rental residential property; • employment levels and job and personal income growth; • the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and the euro with respect to our French operations; and • real estate taxes. Adverse changes in these conditions may affect our business nationally or may be more prevalent or concentrated in particular regional or local areas in which we operate. Weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions, can also harm our homebuilding business on a local or regional basis. Civil unrest or acts of terrorism can also have an adverse effect on our business. Fluctuating lumber prices and shortages, as well as shortages or price fluctuations in other building materials or commodities, can have an adverse effect on our business. Similarly, labor shortages or unrest among key trades, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers, can delay the delivery of our homes and increase our costs. The potential difficulties described above can cause demand and prices for our homes to diminish or cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices because of market conditions and because the price of each home is usually set several months before the home is delivered, as our customers typically sign their home purchase contracts before construction begins. The potential difficulties described above could cause some homebuyers to cancel or to refuse to honor their home purchase contracts altogether. The homebuilding industry is experiencing a severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and adversely affect our business and results of operations compared to prior periods. In 2006, the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. In many markets, a rapid increase in new and existing home prices over the past several years reduced housing affordability and tempered buyer demand. In particular, investors and speculators reduced their purchasing activity and instead stepped up their efforts to sell the residential property they had earlier acquired. These trends, which were more pronounced in markets that had experienced the greatest levels of price appreciation, resulted in overall fewer home sales, greater cancellations of home purchase 14 Table of Contents agreements by buyers, higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use by homebuilders, speculators, investors and others of discounts, incentives and price concessions to close home sales compared to the past several years. Reflecting these demand and supply trends, we, like many other homebuilders, experienced a large drop in net new orders, slower price appreciation for new homes sold and a reduction in our margins. We can provide no assurances that the homebuilding market will improve in the near future, and it may weaken further. Continued weakness in the homebuilding market would have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations as compared to those of earlier periods. The value of the land and housing inventory we own or control may fall significantly and our profits may decrease. The value of the land and housing inventory we currently own or control depends on market conditions, including estimates of future demand for, and the revenues that can be generated from, such inventory. The market value of our land inventory can vary considerably because there is often a significant amount of time between our initial acquisition of land and our ability to make homes on that land available for sale. In the past few years, the value of our inventory has benefited from increases in buyer demand and the rapid appreciation of home prices. However, the recent downturn in the housing market has caused and, if it continues, may in the future cause, the fair market value of certain of our inventory to fall, in some cases well below its estimated fair market value at the time we acquired it. Depending on our assessment of fair market value, we may need to write-down the value of certain of our inventory and take corresponding non-cash charges against our earnings to reflect impaired value. We may also abandon our interests in certain land inventory that no longer meets our internal investment standards, which would also require us to take non-cash charges. On January 16, 2007, we reported that we would record non-cash charges in the fourth quarter of 2006 of $88.3 million related to the abandonment of certain land option contracts and $255.0 million related to inventory and joint venture impairments. If the current downturn in the housing market continues, we may need to take additional charges against our earnings for abandonments or inventory impairments, or both. Any such non-cash charges would have an adverse effect on our reported profits. If new home prices decline, interest rates increase or there is a downturn in the economy, some homebuyers may cancel their home purchases because the required deposits are small and generally refundable. Our backlog numbers reflect the number of homes for which we have entered into a purchase contract with a customer but not yet delivered. Those home purchase contracts typically require only a small deposit, and in many states, the deposit is fully refundable at any time prior to closing. If the prices for new homes decline, competitors increase their use of sales incentives, interest rates increase or there is a downturn in local or regional economies or the national economy, homebuyers may have a financial incentive to terminate their existing home purchase contracts with us in order to negotiate for a lower price or to explore other options. In 2006, we experienced a large increase in the number of cancellations, in part because of these reasons. Additional cancellations could have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our success depends on the availability of improved lots and undeveloped land that meet our land investment criteria. The availability of finished and partially developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, and zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Home prices and sales activity in the particular markets and regions in which we do business affect our results of operations because our business is concentrated in these markets. Home prices and sales activity in some of our key markets have declined from time to time for market-specific reasons, including adverse weather, lack of affordability or economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or decline of key industries and employers. If home prices or sales activity decline in one or more of the key markets in 15 Table of Contents which we operate, particularly in Arizona, California, Florida or Nevada, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our overall results of operations may be adversely affected. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs could lower demand for our homes. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes. In recent years, historically low interest rates and the increased availability of specialized mortgage products, including mortgage products requiring no or low down payments, and interest-only and adjustable rate mortgages, have made homebuying more affordable for a number of customers. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs may lead to higher down payment requirements or monthly mortgage costs, or both, and could therefore reduce demand for our homes. Increased interest rates can also hinder our ability to realize our backlog because our home purchase contracts provide our customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event they cannot arrange for financing at the interest rates prevailing when they signed their contracts. Because the availability of Fannie Mae, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, FHA and VA mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce our home sales. We are subject to substantial legal and regulatory requirements regarding the development of land, the homebuilding process and protection of the environment, which can cause us to suffer delays and incur costs associated with compliance and which can prohibit or restrict homebuilding activity in some regions or areas. Our homebuilding business is heavily regulated and subject to an increasing degree of local, state and federal regulations concerning zoning, resource protection and other environmental impacts, building design, construction and similar matters. These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that regulate these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of a specified project or a number of projects in particular markets. We may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to building moratoria in any of the areas in which we operate. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment. These laws and regulations may cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. In addition, environmental laws may impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances whether or not the developer or owner of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances. The presence of those substances on our properties may prevent us from selling our homes and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or lawsuits brought by private parties, for hazardous or toxic substances on properties and lots that we have sold in the past. Further, a significant portion of our business is conducted in California, which is one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country. Therefore, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than other homebuilders with a less significant California presence. Because of our French business, we are also subject to regulations and restrictions imposed by the government of France concerning investments by non-French companies in businesses in France, as well as to French and European Union laws and regulations similar to those discussed above. The mortgage banking operations of Countrywide KB Home Loans are heavily regulated and subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies. There are a number of federal and state statutes and regulations which, among other things, prohibit discrimination, establish underwriting guidelines which include obtaining inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and fix maximum loan amounts. A finding that we or Countrywide KB Home Loans materially violated any of the foregoing laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to a Consent Order that we entered into with the Federal Trade Commission in 1979. Pursuant to the Consent Order, we provide explicit warranties on the quality of our homes, follow certain guidelines in advertising and provide certain disclosures to prospective purchasers of our homes. A finding that we have significantly violated the Consent Order could result in substantial liabilities or penalties and could limit our ability to sell homes in certain markets. We build homes in highly competitive markets, which could hurt our future operating results. We compete in each of our markets with a number of homebuilding companies for homebuyers, land, financing, building materials, skilled management and labor resources. Our competitors include other large national homebuilders, as well as smaller regional or local builders that, based on long-standing relationships with local labor, materials suppliers or land sellers, can have an advantage in their respective regions or local markets. We also compete with other housing alternatives, such as existing homes and rental housing. These competitive conditions can: • make it difficult for us to acquire desirable land which meets our land buying criteria, and to sell our interests in land that no longer meet our investment return criteria on favorable terms; • reduce our sales or profit margins; • cause us to offer or increase our sales incentives, discounts or price concessions; and • reduce new home sales or increase cancellations by homebuyers of their home purchase contracts with us. Any of these competitive conditions can adversely affect our revenues, increase our costs and/or impede the growth of our local or regional homebuilding business. The design and construction of high density, mixed use properties in the United States present unique challenges, and we have limited experience in this business. We have a limited operating history in the United States in designing and constructing high density, mixed use properties, but we have increased our involvement in such projects over the last few years. Among other risks, our success depends on our ability to accurately gauge customer demand for this type of housing. If our high density, mixed use projects underperform, or the KBnxt operational business model does not translate well to these types of projects, our overall results of operations may be adversely affected. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results fluctuate. We have experienced seasonal fluctuations in quarterly operating results. We typically do not commence significant construction on a home before a home purchase contract has been signed with a homebuyer. Historically, a significant percentage of our home purchase contracts are entered into in the spring and summer months, and a corresponding significant percentage of our deliveries occur in the fall and winter months. Construction of our homes typically requires approximately four months and weather delays that often occur in late winter and early spring may extend this period. As a result of these combined factors, we historically have experienced uneven quarterly results, with lower revenues and operating income generally during the first and second quarters of the year. Our leverage may place burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, may restrict our ability to operate and may prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. The amount of our debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; • impact our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; 17 Table of Contents • place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. Our business is substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity and competition in the markets in which we operate. Our business could also be affected by financial, political and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Changes in prevailing interest rates may also affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations because borrowings under our $1.5 Billion Credit Facility and other bank loans bear interest at floating rates. A higher interest rate on our debt could adversely affect our operating results. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our $1.5 Billion Credit Facility and other bank loans in an amount sufficient to pay our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. Should this occur, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. The indentures governing our outstanding debt instruments and our $1.5 Billion Credit Facility and other bank loans include financial and other covenants and restrictions, including covenants to report quarterly and annual financial results and restrictions on debt incurrence, sales of assets and cash distributions by us. Should we not comply with these restrictions or covenants, the holders of those debt instruments or the banks, as appropriate, could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or they could demand that we compensate them for waiving instances of noncompliance. We may have difficulty in continuing to obtain the additional financing required to operate and develop our business. Our construction operations require significant amounts of cash and/or available credit. It is not possible to predict the future terms or availability of additional capital. Moreover, our outstanding domestic public debt, as well as the $1.5 Billion Credit Facility and the credit facilities of our French subsidiary, contain provisions that may restrict the amount and nature of debt we may incur in the future. Our bank credit facilities limit our ability to borrow additional funds by placing a maximum cap on our leverage ratio. Under the most restrictive of these provisions, as of November 30, 2006, we would have been permitted to incur up to $5.24 billion of total consolidated indebtedness, as defined in the bank credit facilities. This maximum amount exceeded our actual total consolidated indebtedness at November 30, 2006 by $2.58 billion. There can be no assurance that we can actually borrow up to this maximum amount at any time, as our ability to borrow additional funds, and to raise additional capital through other means, is also dependent on conditions in the capital markets and our credit worthiness. If conditions in the capital markets change significantly, it could reduce our sales and may hinder our future growth and results of operations. Our future growth may be limited if the economies of the markets in which we currently operate contract, or if we are unable to enter new markets, find appropriate acquisition candidates or adapt our products to meet changes in demand. Our growth may also be limited by the consummation of acquisitions that may not be successfully integrated, or our entry into new markets or our offerings of new products that may not achieve expected benefits. Our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected if the markets in which we currently operate or the products we currently offer to potential homebuyers, or both, do not continue to support the expansion of our business. Our inability to grow in our existing markets, to expand into new markets and/or adapt our products to meet changes in homebuyer demand would limit our ability to achieve growth objectives and would adversely impact our future operating results. Similarly, if we do consummate acquisitions in the future, we may not be successful in integrating the operations of the acquired businesses, including their product lines, operations and corporate cultures, which would limit our ability to grow and would adversely impact our future operating results. Because we build homes in France, some of our revenues and earnings are subject to foreign currency and economic risks. A portion of our construction operations are located in France. As a result, our financial results are affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro and changes in the French economy to the extent those 18 Table of Contents changes affect the homebuilding market there. We do not currently use any currency hedging instruments or other strategies to manage currency risks related to fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar or the euro. We are involved in an SEC investigation and litigation relating to our past stock option grant practices. As disclosed in the Explanatory Note on page 1 of this Form 10-K, the Subcommittee concluded that we used incorrect measurement dates for financial reporting purposes for the eight annual stock option grants made to our employees since 1998. The Subcommittee discovered evidence confirming or, in some years, suggesting that hindsight was used to secure favorable exercise prices for seven of these eight annual grants. The SEC is conducting an investigation into our stock option grant practices. In addition, shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed in California state and federal courts relating to our stock option grant practices. It is possible that additional lawsuits may be filed. The investigation and lawsuits have resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial legal and professional fees, and will continue to occupy our time and attention. An adverse outcome to the investigation or one or more of the lawsuits may have a negative effect on our business and our results of operations. The process of restating our financial statements is subject to uncertainty and evolving requirements. We have worked with our independent registered public accounting firm and the SEC to make our filings comply with applicable accounting and financial reporting guidance for restatements of the kind presented in this Form 10-K. The issues surrounding past stock option grant practices and financial statement restatements are complex, however, and guidance in these areas may continue to evolve. If new guidance imposes additional or different requirements, we may be required to amend this filing or previous filings. The additional cost and time to prepare any such amendment and the public reaction to any such amendment may have an adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 