Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of certain factors, which could affect the financial results of the Company. The Company’s results of operations are affected by the availability of new products. The Company’s business is affected by the release of “hit” music and video titles, which can create fluctuations in sales. It is not possible to determine the timing of these fluctuations or the future availability of hit titles. The Company is dependent upon the major music and movie producers to continue to produce hit products. To the extent that new hit releases are not available, or not available at prices attractive to consumers, or, if manufacturers fail to introduce or delay the introduction of new products, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company’s results of operations are affected by the continued declines in the video and music industries. The video and music retailing industries are mature industries and have experienced declines in recent years. Physical video and music represent our largest product categories in terms of sales and have been impacted by new distribution channels, including digital distribution and internet fulfillment. As a result, the Company has had negative comparable store sales for the past five years. The Company’s results of operations may suffer if the Company does not accurately predict consumer acceptance of new product or distribution technologies. The entertainment industry is characterized by changing technology, evolving format standards, frequent new and enhanced product introductions and rapid product obsolescence. These characteristics require the Company to respond quickly to technological changes and understand the impact of these changes on customers’ preferences. If the Company is unable to participate in new product or distribution technologies, its results of operations may suffer. Specifically, CD and DVD formats have experienced a continuous decline as digital forms of music and video content have become more prevalent. If the Company does not timely adapt to these changing technologies or sufficiently focus on the other core categories, operating results could significantly suffer. Increased competition from existing retailers, including internet retailers, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company competes with a wide variety of entertainment retailers, including deep-discount retailers, mass merchandisers, consumer electronics outlets, internet retailers and independent operators, some of whom have greater financial and other resources than the Company and frequently sell their product at discounted prices or with added value. 5 In addition, the Company’s success depends on our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers. The retail business is highly competitive. In the past the Company has been able to compete successfully by differentiating our customer shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, customer service and marketing efforts. Customer perceptions regarding our stores, our in-stock position and deep assortment of product are also factors in our ability to compete. No single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross profit and expenses. If we fail to continue to positively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s business is influenced by general economic conditions. The Company’s performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of discretionary consumer spending. General economic conditions impacting discretionary consumer spending include, among others, wages and employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. A downturn in the economy affects retailers disproportionately, as consumers may prioritize reductions in discretionary spending, which could have a direct impact on purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, reduced consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices, which would have a negative impact on gross profit. Disruption of global capital and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources. Distress in the financial markets has in the past and can in the future result in extreme volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. Historically, we have experienced declines and we may continue to experience fluctuation in our level of sales, results from operations and operating cash flow. A variety of factors has historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable stores sales results and profit margins. These factors include general regional and national economic conditions; competition; actions taken by our competitors; consumer trends and preferences; new product introductions and changes in our product mix; timing and effectiveness of promotional events and weather. The Company’s comparable store sales may decline further than they did in Fiscal 2012. Also, they may vary from quarter to quarter as our business is highly seasonal in nature. Our highest sales and operating income historically occur during the fourth fiscal quarter, which is due in part, to the holiday selling season. The fourth quarter generated approximately 36% of our net sales for Fiscal 2012. Any decrease in our fourth quarter sales, whether due to a slow holiday selling season, unseasonable weather conditions, economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. There is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of sales and earnings growth, and any decline in our future growth or performance could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Failure to open new stores or renew existing leases in profitable stores may limit our earnings. Historically, the Company’s growth has come from adding stores. The Company opens new stores if it finds desirable locations and is able to negotiate suitable lease terms for profitability. A lack of new store growth may impact the Company’s ability to increase sales and earnings. The Company opened one new store in Fiscal 2012. Likewise, the Company regularly renews leases at existing locations if those stores are profitable. Failure to renew these leases may impact the Company’s earnings. See Item 2: Properties, for timing of lease expirations. A change in one or more of the Company’s vendors’ policies or the Company’s relationship with those vendors could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is dependent on its vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. If a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, the Company could experience merchandise shortages that could lead to lost sales. The majority of the Company’s purchases come from ten major suppliers. As is standard in its industry, the Company does not maintain long-term contracts with its suppliers but instead makes purchases on an order-by-order basis. If the Company fails to maintain customary trade terms or enjoy positive vendor relations, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. If the Company’s vendors fail to provide marketing and merchandising support at historical levels, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. The manufacturers of entertainment products have typically provided retailers with significant marketing and merchandising support for their products. As part of this support, the Company receives cooperative advertising and other allowances from these vendors. These allowances 6 enable the Company to actively promote and merchandise the products it sells at its stores and on its websites. If the Company’s vendors fail to provide this support at historical levels, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our customers. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop shopping at our stores. Such events could lead to lost sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Loss of key personnel or the inability to attract, train and retain qualified employees could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company believes that its future prospects depend, to a significant extent, on the services of its executive officers, particularly, Robert J. Higgins, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel. The loss of the services of certain of the Company’s executive officers and other key management personnel could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition to our executive officers, the Company’s business is dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain a large number of qualified team members. Many of those team members are employed in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, health care costs and changing demographics. If we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified team members, our operations, customer service levels and support functions could suffer. Those factors, together with increased wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns approximately 45.9% of the outstanding Common Stock. Therefore, he has significant influence and control over the outcome of any vote of the Company’s Shareholders. Robert J. Higgins serves as Chairman of the Board of the Company and its Chief Executive Officer and owns approximately 45.9% of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company, as of March 31, 2013 and there are no limitations on his acquiring shares in the future. Accordingly, Mr. Higgins has significant influence over the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the opposition of actions requiring shareholder approval, such as adopting amendments to our articles of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. Such concentration of ownership and substantial voting influence may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, even if a change of control is in the best interest of all shareholders. There may be instances in which the interest of Mr. Higgins may conflict or be perceived as being in conflict with the interest of a holder of our securities or the interest of the company. Failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. Significant legislative changes that impact our relationship with our workforce (none of which is represented by unions) could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. Examples of possible legislative changes impacting our relationship with our workforce include changes to an employer’s obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining units are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market, as well as applicable employment laws. Additional legal and regulatory requirements increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in damage to our reputation, financial condition and market price of our stock. We could be materially and adversely affected if our distribution center is disrupted. We operate a distribution center in Albany, New York. We ship approximately 75% of our merchandise inventory through our distribution center. If our distribution center is destroyed or disrupted for any reason, including; weather, fire, labor, or other issues, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes to reopen or replace the center. We maintain business interruption insurance to protect us from the costs relating to matters such as a shutdown, but our insurance may not be sufficient, or the insurance proceeds may not be timely paid to us, in the event of a shutdown. The Company’s stock price has experienced and could continue to experience volatility and could decline, resulting in a substantial loss on your investment. Our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors, including global economic conditions, broad market fluctuations and public perception of the prospects for music and the home video industry. Changes in our 7 comparable store net sales could also affect the price of our Common Stock. Failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to comparable store sales, net revenues, operating margins and earnings per share, would likely result in a decline in the market price of our stock. In addition, an active trading market for our Common Stock may not be sustained, which could affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares and could depress the market price of their shares. The stock market in general and the market for video and music related stocks in particular, has been highly volatile. For example, the closing price of our Common Stock at quarter ends has fluctuated between $1.62 and $4.01 from January 31, 2011 to March 30, 2013. Investors in our Common Stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The failure to maintain a minimum closing share price of $1.00 per share of our Common Stock could result in the delisting of our shares on The NASDAQ Global Market, which would harm the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. In order to retain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market we are required by NASDAQ to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. Our stock price is currently above $1.00 and has been since October 6, 2009. However, in the event that our stock did close below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for any 30 consecutive business days, we would regain compliance if our Common Stock closed at or above $1.00 per share for 10 consecutive days during the 180 days immediately following failure to maintain the minimum bid price. If we are unable to do so, our stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, transferred to a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, or delisted from the NASDAQ markets altogether. The failure to maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market could harm the liquidity of the Company’s Common Stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS None. 8 