Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors could adversely impact our business. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements (i) that we make in registration statements, periodic reports and other filings with the SEC and from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written reports or communications, (ii) that we post on or make available through our website, and (iii) made orally from time to time by our personnel and representatives. The homebuilding industry is experiencing a prolonged and severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In recent years, many of our served markets and the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole have experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for 12 Table of Contents sale, conditions that generally began in mid-2006. As a result, since mid-2006, compared to the period from 2000 through 2005, we and other homebuilders have generally experienced fewer home sales and greater volatility in the cancellations of home purchase contracts by homebuyers, and faced higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use of discounts, incentives, price concessions and other marketing efforts by sellers of new and existing homes to close sales, putting downward pressure on home selling prices, revenues and profitability. These negative supply and demand trends have been exacerbated since 2008 by a number of factors, including (a) a severe and persistent downturn in general economic and employment conditions that, among other things, has further tempered consumer demand and confidence for buying homes; (b) increasing residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosure and short sales activity and sales of lender-owned homes; (c) volatility and uncertainty in credit and consumer lending markets, including from voluntary and involuntary delays by financial institutions in finalizing residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosures and increasing demands from investors for lenders, residential consumer mortgage loan brokers and other institutions, or their agents, to repurchase the residential consumer mortgage loans or securities backed by residential consumer mortgage loans that they originated, issued or administer; (d) generally tighter lending standards for residential consumer mortgage loans; and (e) the termination, expiration or scaling back of homebuyer tax credits and other government programs supportive of home sales. It is uncertain when, and to what extent, these housing industry trends and factors might reverse or improve. Reflecting this difficult operating environment, we, like many other homebuilders, have experienced to varying degrees since the housing downturn began, declines in net orders, decreases in the average selling price of new homes we have sold and delivered and reduced revenues and margins relative to the period from 2000 through 2005, and we have generated operating losses. Though we improved our operating margins and narrowed our net loss in 2010 compared to 2009, and housing affordability is currently at historically high levels overall, we can provide no assurances that the homebuilding industry or our business will improve substantially or at all in 2011. If economic conditions, employment, personal income growth and consumer confidence remain weak and residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosures, delinquencies and short sales continue rising in future periods, there would likely be a corresponding adverse effect on our business and our results of operations, including, but not limited to, the number of homes we deliver, the amount of revenues we generate and our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Further tightening of residential consumer mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements or further volatility in credit and consumer lending markets could adversely affect the availability of residential consumer mortgage loans for some potential purchasers of our homes and thereby reduce our sales. Since 2008, the residential consumer mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries have experienced significant instability due to, among other things, relatively high rates of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures on residential consumer mortgage loans and a resulting decline in their market value and the market value of securities backed by such loans. The delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures have been driven in part by persistent poor economic and employment conditions, which have negatively affected borrowers’ incomes, and by a decline in the values of many existing homes in various markets below the principal balance of the residential consumer mortgage loans secured by such homes. A number of providers, purchasers and insurers of residential consumer mortgage loans and residential consumer mortgage-backed securities have gone out of business or exited the market, and lenders, investors, regulators and others have questioned the oversight and the adequacy of lending standards for several residential consumer mortgage loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years, including programs offered or supported by the Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”), the Veterans Administration (“VA”) and the federal government sponsored enterprises, the Federal National Mortgage Association (also known as “Fannie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (also known as “Freddie Mac”). Compared to prior periods, this has led to reduced investor demand for residential consumer mortgage loans and residential consumer mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity and availability of residential consumer mortgage loan products (particularly subprime and nonconforming loans), and increased down payment requirements and credit risk premiums related to home purchases. It has also led to enhanced regulatory and legislative actions, and government programs focused on modifying the principal balances, interest rates and/or payment terms of existing residential consumer mortgage loans and preventing residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosures, which have achieved somewhat mixed results. The reduction in the availability of residential consumer mortgage loan products and providers and tighter residential consumer mortgage loan qualifications and down payment requirements have made it more difficult for some categories of 13 Table of Contents borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes or the purchase of existing homes from potential move-up buyers who wish to purchase one of our homes. Overall, these factors have slowed any general improvement in the housing market, and they have resulted in volatile home purchase cancellation rates and reduced demand for our homes and for residential consumer mortgage loans originated through our KBA Mortgage joint venture. These reductions in demand have had a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations in 2010 that is expected to continue in 2011. Potentially exacerbating the foregoing trends, in 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law and established several new standards and requirements (including risk retention obligations) relating to the origination, securitizing and servicing of, and consumer disclosures for, residential consumer mortgage loans. These new standards and requirements are expected to further reduce the availability of and/or increase the costs to borrowers to obtain such loans. Federal regulators and legislators are also discussing steps that may significantly reduce the ability or authority of the FHA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to purchase or insure residential consumer mortgage loans. In the last few years, the FHA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have purchased or insured substantially all new residential consumer mortgage loans originated by lenders, including KBA Mortgage. Also in 2010, and as noted above, investors in residential consumer mortgage-backed securities, as well as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, increasingly demanded that lenders, brokers and other institutions, or their agents, repurchase the loans underlying the securities based on alleged breaches of underwriting standards or of representations and warranties made in connection with transferring the loans. These “put-back” demands are expected to continue into 2011 and, to the extent successful, could cause lenders and brokers to further curtail their residential consumer mortgage loan origination activities due to reduced liquidity. Concerns about the soundness of the residential consumer mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries have also been heightened recently due to allegedly widespread errors by lenders or brokers, or their agents, in the processing of residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosures and sales of foreclosed homes, leading to voluntary or involuntary delays and higher costs to finalize foreclosures and foreclosed home sales, and greater court and regulatory scrutiny. In addition to having a potential negative impact on the origination of new residential consumer mortgage loans, these disruptions in residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosures and lender-owned home sales may make it more difficult for us to accurately assess the supply of and prevailing prices for unsold homes and/or the overall stability of particular housing markets. Many of our homebuyers obtain financing for their home purchases from our KBA Mortgage joint venture. Our partner, a Bank of America, N.A. subsidiary, provides the loan products that the joint venture offers to our homebuyers. If, due to higher costs, reduced liquidity, heightened risk retention obligations and/or new operating restrictions or regulatory reforms related to or arising from compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act, residential consumer mortgage loan put-back demands or internal or external reviews of its residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosure processes, or other factors or business decisions, our partner refuses or is unable to make loan products available to the joint venture to provide to our homebuyers, our home sales and our homebuilding and financial services results of operations may be adversely affected. For instance, in the fourth quarter of 2010, stricter lending standards led to an increase in our cancellation rate compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. The degree to which this more cautious approach to providing loans to our homebuyers continues into 2011 is unclear, and we can provide no assurance that the trend of tighter residential consumer mortgage lending standards will slow or reverse in the foreseeable future. Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry have had limited success, and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. While we have been successful in generating positive operating cash flow since the housing downturn began, we have done so at reduced gross profit levels and, until 2010, have incurred significant asset impairment charges compared to the period from 2000 through 2005. Moreover, many of our strategic initiatives during the housing downturn to generate cash and improve our operating efficiency have involved lowering overhead through workforce reductions, for which we incurred significant costs, and reducing our active community count through strategic wind downs, reduced investments or market exits, curbs in development and sales of land interests. These strategic steps have resulted in our generating to varying degrees fewer net orders, homes delivered and revenues compared to periods before the housing downturn began, and have contributed to the net losses we have recognized in recent years. In an effort to generate higher revenues and restore and maintain our homebuilding operations’ profitability, beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010, we rolled out new, more flexible product designs, including The 14 Table of Contents Open Series, and we continued to take steps to reduce our selling, general and administrative expenses, and to redeploy our capital into housing markets with perceived higher future growth prospects. These integrated strategic steps helped us narrow our net losses and improve our operating margins in each quarter of 2010 compared to the corresponding year-earlier periods. However, there can be no assurance that these trends will continue in 2011 or at all, that we will successfully increase our average active community count and inventory base with desirable land assets at a reasonable cost, or that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the near future. In addition, notwithstanding our sales strategies, we have experienced volatility in our net orders and in cancellations of home purchase contracts by buyers throughout the present housing downturn, including in 2010. We believe that our volatile net order and cancellation levels have largely reflected weak homebuyer confidence due to sustained home sales price declines, increased offerings of sales incentives in the marketplace for both new and existing homes, tightened residential consumer mortgage lending standards, and generally poor economic and employment conditions, all of which have prompted homebuyers to forgo or delay home purchases. Additional volatility arose in 2010 with the April 30 expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit, which likely pulled demand forward to the first two quarters of the year and led to a drop in net orders and customer traffic in the periods that followed. The relatively tight consumer mortgage lending environment and the inability of some homebuyers to sell their existing homes have also led to lower demand for new homes and to volatility in home purchase contract cancellations for us and the homebuilding industry. Many of these factors affecting our net orders and cancellation rates, and the related market dynamics that put downward pressure on our average selling prices, are beyond our control. It is uncertain how long and to what degree these factors, and the volatility in net orders and home purchase contract cancellations we have experienced, will continue. To the extent that they do, and to the extent that they depress our average selling prices, we expect that they will have a negative effect on our business and our results of operations. Our business is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. Our results of operations can be substantially affected by adverse changes in general economic or business conditions that are outside of our control, including changes in: • short- and long-term interest rates; • employment levels and job and personal income growth; • housing demand from population growth, household formation and other demographic changes, among other factors; • the availability and pricing of financing for homebuyers; • consumer confidence generally and the confidence of potential homebuyers in particular; • U.S. and global financial system and credit market stability; • private party and government residential consumer mortgage loan programs, and federal and state regulation of lending and appraisal practices; • federal and state personal income tax rates and provisions, including provisions for the deduction of residential consumer mortgage loan interest payments and other expenses; • the supply of and prices for available new or existing homes (including lender-owned homes acquired through foreclosures and short sales) and other housing alternatives, such as apartments and other residential rental property; • homebuyer interest in our current or new product designs and community locations, and general consumer interest in purchasing a home compared to choosing other housing alternatives; and • real estate taxes. Adverse changes in these conditions may affect our business nationally or may be more prevalent or concentrated in particular regions or localities in which we operate. In recent years, unfavorable changes in many of these factors negatively affected all of our served markets, and we expect the widespread nature of the present housing downturn to 15 Table of Contents continue into 2011. Continued weakness in the economy, employment levels and consumer confidence would likely exacerbate the unfavorable trends the housing market has experienced since mid-2006. Fluctuating lumber prices and shortages, as well as shortages or price fluctuations in other building materials or commodities, can have an adverse effect on our business. Inclement weather, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions, and labor shortages or disruptions among key trades, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers, can delay the delivery of our homes and/or increase our costs. Civil unrest or acts of terrorism can also have a negative effect on our business. The potential difficulties described above can cause demand and prices for our homes to fall or cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices because of market conditions and because the price of each home we sell is usually set several months before the home is delivered, as our customers typically sign their home purchase contracts before construction begins. The potential difficulties could also lead some homebuyers to cancel or refuse to honor their home purchase contracts altogether. Reflecting the difficult conditions in our served markets and the impact of the termination, expiration or scaling back of homebuyer tax credits and other government programs supportive of home sales, we have experienced volatility in our net orders and in home purchase contract cancellations in recent years, and we may experience similar or increased volatility in 2011. Supply shortages and other risks related to demand for building materials and/or skilled labor could increase costs and delay deliveries. There is a high level of competition in the homebuilding industry for skilled labor and building materials. Increased costs or shortages in building materials or skilled labor could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to homebuyers who have already entered into home purchase contracts, as the purchase contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, and may be signed well in advance of when construction commences. Further, we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs because of market conditions. Sustained increases in construction costs due to competition for materials and skilled labor and higher commodity prices (including prices for lumber, metals and other building material inputs), among other things, may, over time, decrease our margins. Changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future residential development activities. There is growing concern from the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities will cause significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. An increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions and environmental events could limit, delay and/or increase the costs to build new homes and reduce the value of our land and housing inventory in locations that become less desirable to consumers or blocked to development. Projected climate change, if it occurs, may exacerbate the scarcity of water and other natural resources in affected regions, which could limit, prevent or increase the costs of residential development in certain areas. In addition, government mandates, standards and/or regulations intended to mitigate or reduce greenhouse gas emissions and/or projected climate change impacts could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs that make building materials less available or more expensive, or cause us to incur compliance expenses and other financial obligations to meet permitting or development- or construction-related requirements that we will be unable to fully recover (due to market conditions or other factors), and reduce our margins. As a result, climate change impacts, and laws and construction standards, and/or the manner in which they are interpreted or implemented, to address potential climate change impacts, could increase our costs and have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. This is a particular concern with respect to our West Coast reporting segment as California has instituted some of the most extensive and stringent environmental laws and residential building construction standards in the country. 16 Table of Contents Inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs that we may not be able to recover, particularly if sales prices decrease. Inflation can have an adverse impact on our results of operations because increasing costs for land, building materials and skilled labor may raise a need for us to increase home selling prices to maintain satisfactory margins. In 2010, worldwide demand for certain commodities and monetary policy actions have led to price increases for raw materials that are used in construction, including lumber and metals. These pricing trends are expected to continue into 2011 and, in combination with Federal Reserve policies and programs designed to boost economic growth, may lead to a general increase in inflation. However, if the current challenging and highly competitive conditions in the housing market persist, we may not be able to increase, and may need to decrease, our home selling prices to help stimulate sales. If determined necessary, our lowering of home selling prices, in addition to impacting our margins, may also reduce the value of our land inventory, including the assets we purchased in 2010 pursuant to our strategic land acquisition initiative, and make it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land with home selling prices or, if we choose, in disposing of land assets. In addition, depressed land values may cause us to abandon and forfeit deposits on land option contracts if we cannot satisfactorily renegotiate the purchase price of the optioned land. We may incur noncash charges against our earnings for inventory impairments if the value of our owned inventory is reduced or for land option contract abandonments if we choose not to exercise land option contracts, and these charges may be substantial as has occurred in certain periods during the present housing downturn. Reduced home sales may impair our ability to recoup development costs or force us to absorb additional costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. Depending on a land parcel’s stage of development when acquired, these include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. In addition, local municipalities may impose requirements resulting in additional costs. If the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows or falls, which has occurred throughout the present housing downturn, we may incur additional costs and it will take a longer period of time for us to recover our costs, including the costs we incurred in 2010 to purchase assets pursuant to our strategic land acquisition initiative. Furthermore, due to market conditions during the current housing downturn, we have abandoned some options to purchase land, resulting in the forfeiture of deposits and unrecoverable due diligence and development costs. The value of the land and housing inventory we own or control may fall significantly and our profitability may decrease. The value of the inventory we currently own or control depends on market conditions, including estimates of future demand for, and the revenues that can be generated from, this inventory. The market value of our inventory can vary considerably because there is often a significant amount of time between our initial acquisition or optioning of land and the delivery of homes on that land. The housing downturn, which has generally depressed home sales and selling prices, has caused the fair value of certain of our owned or controlled inventory to fall, in some cases well below the estimated fair value at the time we acquired it. Through our periodic assessments of fair value, we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our inventory, including inventory that we have previously written down, and record corresponding noncash charges against our earnings to reflect the impaired value. We have also taken noncash charges in connection with abandoning our interests in certain optioned inventory that no longer meets our investment or marketing standards. Although the magnitude of such noncash charges diminished significantly in 2010 compared to prior periods, if the current housing downturn continues, we may need to take additional charges against our earnings for inventory impairments or land option contract abandonments, or both. Any such noncash charges would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, including our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Some homebuyers may cancel their home purchases because the required deposits are small and generally refundable. Our backlog information reflects the number of homes for which we have entered into a purchase contract with a homebuyer, but not yet delivered the home. Our home purchase contracts typically require only a small deposit, and in some circumstances, the deposit is refundable prior to closing. If the prices for new homes decline, competitors increase their use of sales incentives, interest rates increase, the availability of residential consumer mortgage financing diminishes or there is continued weakness or a further downturn in local or regional economies or the national economy and in consumer confidence, customers may terminate their existing home purchase contracts with us because they have been unable to 17 Table of Contents finalize their mortgage financing for the purchase, or in order to attempt to negotiate for a lower price, explore other options or for other reasons they are unable or unwilling to complete the purchase. In recent years, we have experienced volatile home purchase contract cancellations, in part because of these reasons and, as discussed above, in part due to the April 30, 2010 expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit. To the extent they continue, volatile home purchase contract cancellations due to these conditions, or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our long-term success depends on the availability of finished lots and undeveloped land that meet our land investment criteria. The availability of finished and partially finished lots and undeveloped land assets that meet our investment and marketing standards depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including land availability in general, climate conditions, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, credit market conditions, legal or government agency processes (particularly for land assets that are part of bankruptcy estates or are held by financial institutions taken over by government agencies), inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, our ability and the costs to obtain building permits, the amount of environmental impact fees, property tax rates and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of attractive land could increase, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations including, but not limited to, our margins, and our ability to maintain ownership or control of a sufficient supply of developed or developable land inventory. The availability of suitable land assets will also affect the success of the land acquisition strategy we initiated in 2010, and if we decide to reduce our acquisition of new land due to a lack of available assets that meet our standards, our ability to increase our average community count and revenues and to achieve or maintain profitability would likely be constrained. Home prices and sales activity in the particular markets and regions in which we do business affect our results of operations because our business is concentrated in these markets. Home selling prices and sales activity in some of our key served markets have declined from time to time for market-specific reasons, including adverse weather, high levels of foreclosures, and lack of affordability or economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or decline of key industries and employers. If home selling prices or sales activity decline in one or more of our key served markets, particularly in Arizona, California, Florida, Nevada or Texas, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our overall results of operations may be adversely affected. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs or regulations could lower demand for our homes. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes. Before the housing downturn began, historically low interest rates and the increased availability of specialized residential consumer mortgage loan products, including products requiring no or low down payments, and interest-only and adjustable-rate residential consumer mortgage loans, made purchasing a home more affordable for a number of customers and more available to customers with lower credit scores. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of residential consumer mortgage loan financing or of certain residential consumer mortgage loan products or programs may, as discussed above, lead to fewer residential consumer mortgage loans being provided, higher down payment requirements or borrower costs, or a combination of the foregoing, and, as a result, reduce demand for our homes and increase our home purchase contract cancellation rates. As a result of the volatility and uncertainty in the credit markets and in the residential consumer mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries since 2008, the federal government has taken on a significant role in supporting residential consumer mortgage lending through its conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which purchase or insure residential consumer mortgage loans and residential consumer mortgage-backed securities, and its insurance of residential consumer mortgage loans through the FHA and the VA. FHA-backing of residential consumer mortgage loans has been particularly important to the residential consumer mortgage finance industry and to our business. In 2010, approximately 62% of our homebuyers (compared to approximately 63% in 2009) that chose to finance with our KBA Mortgage joint venture purchased a home using an FHA-backed loan. The availability and affordability of residential consumer mortgage loans, including interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected by a scaling back or termination of the federal government’s mortgage-related programs or policies. For example, in October 2010, the FHA instituted higher mortgage insurance premiums to help address its low cash reserves and imposed new minimum credit scores and higher down payment requirements for borrowers with lower credit scores for 18 Table of Contents the residential consumer mortgage loans it insures. In addition, due to growing federal budget deficits, the U.S. Treasury may not be able to continue supporting the residential consumer mortgage-related activities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the FHA and the VA at present levels. Because Fannie Mae-, Freddie Mac-, FHA- and VA-backed residential consumer mortgage loan financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce our home sales and adversely affect our results of operations, including the income we earn from our equity interest in our KBA Mortgage joint venture due to lower levels of residential consumer mortgage loan originations. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Under current tax law and policy, significant expenses of owning a home, including residential consumer mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as some policy makers and a presidential commission have proposed, by eliminating or substantially reducing these income tax benefits, the after-tax cost of owning a home could increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for and/or sales prices of new homes, as could increases in personal income tax rates. Moreover, in early 2010, our home sales increased in part because of a federal homebuyer tax credit made available to certain qualifying homebuyers until April 30. The expiration of this homebuyer tax credit adversely affected our net orders, home purchase contract cancellation rates, customer traffic levels and results of operations in subsequent periods of 2010, as weak consumer confidence and unfavorable economic and employment conditions caused many potential homebuyers to delay or forgo the purchase of a home. It is uncertain whether and to what degree the higher demand driven by the federal homebuyer tax credit might return, if at all. We are subject to substantial legal and regulatory requirements regarding the development of land, the homebuilding process and protection of the environment, which can cause us to suffer delays and incur costs associated with compliance and which can prohibit or restrict homebuilding activity in some regions or areas. Our homebuilding business is heavily regulated and subject to an increasing amount of local, state and federal regulation concerning zoning, natural and other resource protection, building designs, construction methods and similar matters. These regulations often provide broad discretion to government authorities that oversee these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of a specified development project or a number of projects in particular markets. We may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to building moratoria and permitting requirements in any of the locations in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment, and in 2008 we entered into a consent decree with the EPA and certain states concerning our storm water pollution prevention practices. As noted above with respect to potential climate change impacts, these laws and regulations, and/or evolving interpretations thereof, and the EPA consent decree may cause delays in our construction and delivery of new homes, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or restrict homebuilding activity in certain regions or areas. Environmental laws may also impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances whether or not the developer or owner of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances. The presence of those substances on our properties may prevent us from selling our homes and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or lawsuits brought by private parties, for hazardous or toxic substances on properties and lots that we have sold in the past. Further, a significant portion of our business is conducted in California, one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country. Therefore, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than other homebuilders with a less significant California presence. The residential consumer mortgage banking operations of our KBA Mortgage joint venture are heavily regulated and subject to the rules and regulations issued by a number of government and quasi-government agencies. There are a 19 Table of Contents number of federal and state statutes and regulations which, among other things, prohibit discrimination, impose various disclosure obligations, establish underwriting guidelines that include verifying prospective borrowers’ incomes and obtaining property inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and fix maximum loan amounts. As discussed above, the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act imposed additional standards and obligations with respect to the origination, securitizing and servicing of residential consumer mortgage loans. A finding that KBA Mortgage materially violated any of the foregoing laws and/or the additional costs it may incur in complying with such laws or to address any violations thereof could have an adverse effect on our results of operations to the extent it impacts the income we earn from our equity interest in KBA Mortgage. We are subject to a consent order that we entered into with the Federal Trade Commission in 1979 and related consent decrees that were entered into in 1991 and 2005. Pursuant to the consent order and the related consent decrees, we provide explicit warranties on our homes, follow certain guidelines in advertising and provide certain disclosures to prospective purchasers of our homes. A finding that we have significantly violated the consent order and/or the related consent decrees could result in substantial liabilities or penalties and could limit our ability to sell homes in certain markets. The homebuilding industry and housing market are very competitive, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land assets, financing, building materials, and skilled management talent and trade labor. We compete in each of our served markets with other local, regional and national homebuilders, including within larger subdivisions containing sections designed, planned and developed by such homebuilders. Other homebuilders may also have long-standing relationships with local labor, materials suppliers or land sellers in certain areas, which may provide an advantage in their respective regions or local markets. We also compete with other housing alternatives, such as existing home sales (including lender-owned homes acquired through foreclosure or short sales) and rental housing. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry can result in: • our delivering fewer homes; • our selling homes at lower prices; • our offering or increasing sales incentives, discounts or price concessions for our homes; • our experiencing lower margins; • our selling fewer homes or experiencing higher home purchase contract cancellations by buyers; • impairments in the value of our inventory and other assets; • difficulty in acquiring desirable land assets that meet our investment return criteria, and in selling our interests in land assets that no longer meet such criteria on favorable terms; • difficulty in our acquiring raw materials and skilled management and trade labor at acceptable prices; • delays in the construction of our homes; and/or • difficulty in securing external financing, performance bonds or letters of credit facilities on favorable terms. These competitive conditions may adversely affect our business and financial results by decreasing our revenues, impairing our ability to successfully execute our land acquisition and land asset management strategies, increasing our costs and/or diminishing growth in our local or regional homebuilding businesses. In the present housing downturn, actions taken by our new home and housing alternative competitors are reducing the effectiveness of our efforts to achieve stability in home selling prices, to generate higher home sales, revenues and margins, and to achieve and maintain profitability. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain talent is critical to the success of our business and a failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. Our officers and employees are an important resource, and we see attracting and retaining a dedicated and talented team to execute our KBnxt operational business model as crucial to our ability to achieve and maintain an advantage over other homebuilders. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, particularly at senior management levels, from other homebuilders, from other companies in the housing and real estate industries, and from companies in various other industries with respect to certain roles or functions. Moreover, the prolonged housing downturn and the decline in the market value of our common stock during the downturn have made it relatively more difficult for us to attract and retain talent compared to the 2000 to 2005 period. In addition, we currently have a limited number of shares of our common stock available for grant as incentive compensation awards, and an inability to grant equity compensation to the same degree as other companies may adversely affect our talent recruitment and retention efforts. If we are unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees, our performance and our ability to achieve and maintain a competitive advantage could be materially adversely affected. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. In the ordinary course of our homebuilding business, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims. We record warranty and other liabilities for the homes we sell based primarily on historical experience in our served markets and our judgment of the risks associated with the types of homes we build. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to maintain, general liability insurance (including construction defect and bodily injury coverage) and workers’ compensation insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims related to our homebuilding activities, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. Through our captive insurance subsidiary, we record expenses and liabilities based on the estimated costs required to cover our self-insured retention and deductible amounts under our insurance policies, and on the estimated costs of potential claims and claim adjustment expenses above our coverage limits or that are not covered by our policies. These estimated costs are based on an analysis of our historical claims and include an estimate of construction defect claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our liabilities will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future, or that any potential inadequacies will not have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted, increasing our risks, and/or become more costly. In 2009, we incurred warranty-related charges associated with the repair of homes primarily delivered in 2006 and 2007 and located in Florida that were identified as containing or suspected of containing allegedly defective drywall manufactured in China. We are continuing to review whether there are additional homes delivered in Florida or other locations that contain or may contain this drywall material. Based on the results of our review, we have not identified homes outside of Florida that contain this drywall material. Depending on the outcome of our review and our actual claims experience, we may incur additional warranty-related costs and increase our warranty liability in future periods. In addition, we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits relating to this drywall material, and we may in the future be subject to other similar litigation or claims that could cause us to incur significant costs. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results fluctuate. We have experienced seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We typically do not commence significant construction on a home before a home purchase contract has been signed with a homebuyer. Historically, a significant percentage of our home purchase contracts are entered into in the spring and summer months, and we deliver a corresponding significant percentage of our homes in the fall and winter months. Construction of our homes typically requires approximately three to four months and weather delays that often occur in late winter and early spring may extend this period. As a result of these combined factors, we historically have experienced uneven quarterly results, with lower revenues and operating income generally during the first and second quarters of the year. During the present housing downturn, however, we have experienced lower sales in the spring and summer months and correspondingly fewer homes delivered in the fall and winter months as compared to the period from 2000 through 2005. Moreover, our normal selling patterns were disrupted to a significant extent in 2010 by the federal homebuyer tax credit that was made 21 Table of Contents available to qualifying homebuyers until April 30. The increased demand driven by the federal tax homebuyer credit in early 2010 resulted in our delivering more homes in the third quarter of 2010 and experiencing lower net orders and higher home purchase contract cancellations in our third and fourth quarters, in each case compared to a more typical seasonal pattern. With the current difficult market conditions expected to continue into 2011, and the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit, we can make no assurances that our historical seasonal patterns will return in the near future if at all. Failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. The indenture governing our outstanding senior notes imposes restrictions on our business operations and activities. Though it does not contain any financial maintenance covenants, the indenture contains certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur secured indebtedness, to engage in sale-leaseback transactions involving property or assets above a specified value, and, as in the case of one of our outstanding senior notes, to engage in mergers, consolidations, and sales of assets. If we fail to comply with these restrictions, the holders of our senior notes could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or could demand that we compensate them for waiving instances of noncompliance. In addition, a default under any series of our senior notes could cause a default with respect to our other senior notes and result in the acceleration of the maturity of all such defaulted indebtedness. We participate in certain unconsolidated joint ventures where we may be adversely impacted by the failure of the unconsolidated joint venture or the other partners in the unconsolidated joint venture to fulfill their obligations. We have investments in and commitments to certain unconsolidated joint ventures with unrelated strategic partners to acquire and develop land and, in some cases, build and deliver homes. To finance these activities, our unconsolidated joint ventures often obtain loans from third-party lenders that are secured by the unconsolidated joint venture’s assets. In certain instances, we and the other partners in an unconsolidated joint venture provide guarantees and indemnities to lenders with respect to the unconsolidated joint venture’s debt, which may be triggered under certain conditions when the unconsolidated joint venture fails to fulfill its obligations under its loan agreements. Because we do not have a controlling interest in these unconsolidated joint ventures, we depend heavily on the other partners in each unconsolidated joint venture to both (a) cooperate and make mutually acceptable decisions regarding the conduct of the business and affairs of the unconsolidated joint venture and (b) ensure that they, and the unconsolidated joint venture, fulfill their respective obligations to us and to third parties. If the other partners in our unconsolidated joint ventures do not provide such cooperation or fulfill these obligations due to their financial condition, strategic business interests (which may be contrary to ours), or otherwise, we may be required to spend additional resources (including payments under the guarantees we have provided to the unconsolidated joint ventures’ lenders) and suffer losses, each of which could be significant. Moreover, our ability to recoup such expenditures and losses by exercising remedies against such partners may be limited due to potential legal defenses they may have, their respective financial condition and other circumstances. As discussed below under “Part I — Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” we are currently a party to an involuntary bankruptcy case initiated by the lenders to one of these unconsolidated joint ventures, which includes seeking to enforce a guarantee. An unfavorable outcome in this case could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. The downturn in the housing market and the continuation of the disruptions in the credit markets could limit our ability to access capital and increase our costs of capital or stockholder dilution. We have historically funded our homebuilding and financial services operations with internally generated cash flows and external sources of debt and equity financing. However, during the present housing downturn, we have relied primarily on the positive operating cash flow we have generated to meet our working capital needs and repay outstanding indebtedness. While we generated positive operating cash flow in recent years, principally through the receipt of federal income tax refunds, and from home and land sales and our efforts to reduce our overhead and operating expenses, the persistent weakness in the housing markets and the disruption in the credit markets since 2008 have reduced the availability and increased the costs to us of other sources of liquidity. 22 Table of Contents Market conditions may significantly limit our ability to replace or refinance indebtedness, particularly due to the lowering of our senior debt ratings by the three principal nationally recognized registered credit rating agencies, as discussed further below. The terms of potential future issuances of indebtedness by us may be more restrictive than the terms governing our current indebtedness, and the issuance, interest and debt service expenses may be higher. Moreover, due to the deterioration in the credit markets and the uncertainties that exist in the general economy and for homebuilders in particular, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace existing financing or secure additional sources of financing, if necessary, on terms satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, the significant decline in our stock price since 2006, the ongoing volatility in the stock markets and the reduction in our stockholders’ equity relative to our debt could also impede our access to the equity markets or increase the amount of dilution our stockholders would experience should we seek or need to raise capital through issuance of equity. While we believe we can meet our forecasted capital requirements from our cash resources, expected future cash flow and the sources of financing that we anticipate will be available to us, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so, particularly if current difficult housing or credit market or economic conditions continue or deteriorate further. The effects on our business, liquidity and financial results of these conditions could be material and adverse to us. We may not realize our deferred income tax assets. In addition, our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Since the end of our 2007 fiscal year, we have generated significant net operating losses (“NOLs”), and we may generate additional NOLs in 2011. Under federal tax laws, we can use our NOLs (and certain related tax credits) to reduce our future taxable income for up to 20 years, after which they expire for such purposes. Until they expire, we can carry forward our NOLs (and certain related tax credits) that we do not use in any particular year to reduce our taxable income in future years, and we have recorded a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets representing the NOLs (and certain related tax credits) that we have generated but have not yet realized. At November 30, 2010, we had net deferred tax assets totaling $772.2 million against which we have provided a valuation allowance of $771.1 million. Our ability to realize our net deferred tax assets is based on the extent to which we generate profits and we cannot provide any assurances as to when and to what extent we will generate future taxable income to realize our net deferred tax assets, whether in whole or in part. In addition, the benefits of our NOLs, built-in losses and tax credits would be reduced or eliminated if we experience an “ownership change,” as determined under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 (“Section 382”). A Section 382 ownership change occurs if a stockholder or a group of stockholders who are deemed to own at least 5% of our common stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of NOLs we can use to reduce our taxable income equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the ownership change (reduced by certain items specified in Section 382) and the federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. A number of complex rules apply to calculating this annual limit. While the complexity of Section 382’s provisions and the limited knowledge any public company has about the ownership of its publicly-traded stock make it difficult to determine whether an ownership change has occurred, we currently believe that an ownership change has not occurred. However, if an ownership change were to occur, the annual limit Section 382 may impose could result in a material amount of our NOLs expiring unused. This would significantly impair the value of our NOLs and, as a result, have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In 2009, our stockholders approved an amendment to our restated certificate of incorporation that is designed to block transfers of our common stock that could result in an ownership change, and a rights agreement pursuant to which we have issued certain stock purchase rights with terms designed to deter transfers of our common stock that could result in an ownership change. However, these measures cannot guarantee complete protection against an ownership change and it remains possible that one may occur. 23 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of indebtedness in relation to our tangible net worth, which may restrict our ability to meet our operational and strategic goals. As of November 30, 2010, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $1.78 billion and total stockholders’ equity of approximately $631.9 million. The amount of our debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other business needs; • limit our ability to renew or, if necessary or desirable, expand the capacity of our letter of credit facilities, and to obtain performance bonds in the ordinary course of our business; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; • impact our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; • place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of continued weakness or a further downturn in our business or in general economic or housing market conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend on our future performance. Our business is substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues, earnings and cash flows vary with the level of general economic activity and competition in the markets in which we operate. Our business could also be affected by financial, political, regulatory, environmental and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. A higher interest rate on our debt could adversely affect our operating results. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and external financing may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations, fulfill the financial or operational obligations we may have under certain unconsolidated joint venture transactions, support our letter of credit facilities (including our cash-collateralized letter of credit facilities with various financial institutions (the “LOC Facilities”)), or to fund our other liquidity or operational needs. Further, if a change of control occurs as defined in the indenture governing our $265.0 million of 9.1% senior notes due 2017 (the “$265 Million Senior Notes”), we would be required to offer to purchase these notes (but not our other outstanding senior notes) at 101% of their principal amount, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, if any. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or have external financing available to us, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt obligations on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all, or raise capital through equity issuances that would dilute existing stockholders’ interests. Our ability to obtain external financing could be adversely affected by a negative change in our credit rating by a third-party rating agency. Our ability to access external sources of financing on favorable terms is a key factor in our ability to fund our operations and to grow our business. As of the date of this report, our credit rating by Fitch Ratings is BB-, with a stable outlook, and our credit rating by Moody’s Investor Services is B1, with a negative outlook. On July 16, 2010, Standard and Poor’s Financial Services lowered our credit rating to B+ from BB-, though it upgraded its outlook from negative to stable. Further downgrades of our credit rating by any of these principal nationally recognized registered credit rating agencies may make it more difficult and costly for us to access external financing. We may have difficulty in continuing to obtain the additional financing required to operate and develop our business. Our homebuilding operations require significant amounts of cash and/or the availability of external financing. While we terminated the Credit Facility in 2010, we established LOC Facilities in order to support certain aspects of our operations in the ordinary course of our business, including our acquisition of land assets and our development of communities. We anticipate that we will need to maintain these facilities in 2011, and, if necessary or desirable, we may in the future seek to expand their capacity or enter into additional such facilities. It is not possible to predict the future 24 Table of Contents terms or availability of additional external capital or for maintaining or, if necessary or desirable, expanding the capacity of the LOC Facilities or entering into additional such facilities. Moreover, our outstanding senior notes contain provisions that may restrict the amount and nature of debt we may incur in the future. There can be no assurance that we can actually borrow additional funds, raise additional capital through other means, or successfully maintain or, if necessary or desirable, expand the capacity of the LOC Facilities or enter into additional such facilities, each of which depends, among other factors, on conditions in the capital markets and our perceived credit worthiness, as discussed above. If conditions in the capital markets change significantly, it could reduce our ability to generate sales and may hinder our future growth and results of operations. Potential federal and state regulations limiting the investment activities of financial institutions, including regulations that have been or may be issued under the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act, could also impact our ability to obtain additional financing and to maintain or, if necessary or desirable, expand the LOC Facilities or enter into additional such facilities, in each case on favorable terms or at all. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain performance bonds. In the course of developing our communities, we are often required to provide to various municipalities and other government agencies performance bonds to secure the completion of our projects and to support similar development activities by certain of our unconsolidated joint ventures. Our ability to obtain such bonds and the cost to do so depend on our credit rating, overall market capitalization, available capital, past operational and financial performance, management expertise and other factors, including prevailing surety market conditions, which tightened in 2010 with certain providers exiting the market or substantially reducing their issuances of performance bonds, and the underwriting practices and resources of performance bond issuers. If we are unable to obtain performance bonds when required or the cost or operational restrictions or conditions imposed by issuers to obtain them increases significantly, we may not be able to develop or we may be significantly delayed in developing a community or communities and/or we may incur significant additional expenses, and, as a result, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and/or liquidity could be adversely affected. Changes in accounting standards could affect our reported financial results. New accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards that may become applicable to us could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations, and may also cause us to incur significant additional expenses in order to comply with them. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 