Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion highlights certain of the risks we currently face. The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this document, should be carefully considered. Securities of the Company involve a high degree of risk and should be regarded as speculative. In addition to matters set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report, potential investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below relating to the business of the Company. LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY The success of the Company cannot be guaranteed or accurately predicted. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to operate profitably. Such prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a product and service. Arrow began operations in approximately September, 2005, and to date has generated $52,000 revenues. The Company has no significant operating history. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to operate and manage on a profitable basis or that cash flow from operations will be sufficient to pay the operating costs of the Company. The Company may need to raise additional capital to finance its continued operations. The Company may seek additional financing through debt or equity financings. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available to the Company, or if available, that the financing will be on terms acceptable to the Company. There is no assurance that the Company’s estimate of its reasonably anticipated liquidity needs is accurate or that new business developments or other unforeseen events will not occur that will result in the need to raise additional funds. In the event that the Company cannot raise needed capital, it will have a material adverse affect on the Company. There is no assurance that the Company will achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flow from operating activities in the future or that it will generate sufficient cash flow to service any debt requirements. SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS & DILUTION The Company’s capital requirements are and will continue to be significant. The Company anticipates, based on management’s internal forecasts and assumptions relating to its operations (including the costs associated with marketing), that unless at least $1,500,000 is raised for working capital purposes, the Company’s cash resources will not be sufficient to satisfy the Company’s contemplated cash requirements and that additional financing may be needed to support the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to the Company. To the extent that any financing involves the sale of the Company’s equity securities, the interests of the Company’s then existing shareholders could be substantially diluted. Dilution will also occur when and if options to be granted to employees, consultants and other third parties are exercised. DEPENDENCE ON ARROW PACIFIC RESOURCES GROUP LIMITED AND ITS OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES Our revenues are currently entirely derived from sales of APR and its operating subsidiaries products sales. APR will not be in a position to generate sustainable timber sales until it has completed certain infrastructure improvements in Indonesia. The infrastructure requirements will take APR a maximum of one year to complete. Therefore, APR may not generate sustainable sales of its products until the third quarter of 2009. COMPETITION The Company anticipates competition on numerous fronts. Increased competition could require the Company to respond to competitive pressures by establishing pricing, marketing and other programs, or seeking out additional strategic alliances or acquisitions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations of the Company. The Company could potentially have competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share, and a diminished brand franchise, any of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully. 8 ABSENCE OF DIVIDENDS & DIVIDEND POLICY The Company has never paid dividends on its Common Stock, but does anticipate paying dividends on its Common Stock in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of dividends by the Company are subject to the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors. Any determination as to the payment of dividends in the future will depend upon results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions in loan agreements, if any, and such other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant. OWNERSHIP OF THE COMPANY APR owns 53% of the Company’s stock. Hans Karundeng is the Chairman of APR. His son, Rudolph, is a Director of the Company and is an 8% owner of the Company’s stock. DEPENDENCE ON MANAGEMENT The success of the Company will largely be dependent upon the active participation of its management. The Company does not currently have “Key Man” life insurance on any of its current officers or employees, although the Company intends to provide such insurance, based on availability of funds in the future. The Company would pay all premiums for such “Key Man” life insurance. The time that the officers and directors devote to the business affairs of the Company, and the skill with which they discharge their responsibilities, will substantially impact the Company’s success. Loss of the services of certain executive officers of the Company could be expected to have a material adverse effect upon the Company. POSSIBLE LOSS OF OR INABILITY TO ATTRACT KEY PERSONNEL The Company’s success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial and industry personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting or retaining these key personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND OTHER CONDITIONS The Company’s business may be adversely affected from time to time by such matters as changes in economic, industrial and international conditions, changes in taxes, changes in government regulations, prices and costs and other factors of a general nature and in particular those changes which have an adverse material effect on the natural resources industry or other industries in which the Company becomes engaged to provide marketing, sales, distribution, corporate operations and corporate finance services for the commercial exploitation of natural resources around the world. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN These consolidated financial statements are presented on the basis that the Company is a going concern. Going concern contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time. As shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company incurred a net loss of $5,360,576 for the year ended December 31, 2008 and a net loss during the development stage from inception in November 15, 2005 through December 31, 2008 of $140,223,968. The Company’s operations are in the development stage, and the Company has generated revenue of $52,000 since inception. The Company’s existence in the current period has been dependent upon advances from related parties and other individuals, and the sale of senior notes payable. We cannot assure you when or if we will ever be able to operate on a positive cash flow basis. If we are unable to achieve the level of revenues needed to attain a positive cash flow, we may be required to take actions, including but not limited to reducing our operations, seeking an acquisition and/or merging with another entity, that could materially change and/or adversely affect our business. We have a history of losses and we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate profitably in the foreseeable future, if at all. Our inability to achieve or maintain profitability or positive cash flow could: · result in disappointing financial results, · impede implementation of our growth strategy, · cause the market price of our common stock to decrease, · impede our ability to procure financing on acceptable terms or at all, and · otherwise adversely affect our business and financial condition. 9 Under certain circumstances we could incur an impairment loss that could adversely affect our stockholders’ equity. We will require financing if our revenues do not meet our projections or our expenses are greater than we anticipate, or to finance the further development of our business. Our inability to obtain financing, if required, would have an adverse effect on our business. We may need to obtain financing if our actual costs are higher than projected or our contemplated future revenues fall below our current expectations, in order to · finance more rapid expansion, · increase marketing and sales, · develop new or enhanced technology, · respond to competitive pressures, · establish strategic relationships, and/or · provide for working capital. If we raise such financing by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be diluted. Any new debt or equity securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to rights of our common stock holders. We currently have no commitments for any such financing and, accordingly, cannot assure you that such financing will be available when and to the extent required or that, if available, it will be on terms acceptable to us. If adequate financing is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to finance the activities referred to above. In such event, our business may be adversely affected. Recently enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations will increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002 has required and will continue to require changes in some of our corporate governance practices. We expect that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, and make some activities more difficult, time consuming and/or more costly. We also expect that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will make it more costly to obtain director and officer liability insurance coverage, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain it. We currently do not have this coverage. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. In accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have instituted a number of changes relating to corporate governance practices including the certification of our consolidated financial statements pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and adoption of certain internal controls. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has provisions that have implementation deadlines, including those related to Section 404 concerning internal control procedures. Implementation of those procedures will require resources and a portion of our management’s time and efforts. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, while current accounting rules allow us to exclude the expense of employee stock options from our financial statements, influential business policy groups, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, have suggested that the rules be changed to require these options to be expensed. Due to the change in business activities of the Company in conjunction with the change in control, we are no longer able to realize any benefit from net operating losses carried forward of CNE Group, Inc. of approximately $30,000,000. The Company currently has net operating losses of approximately $185,000 related to development stage activity, which may be carried forward to future periods. Companies generally, and our Company, specifically, rely heavily on stock options as a major component of our employee compensation packages. If we are required to expense options granted to our officers and employees, although our cash position would not be affected, our income from continuing operations and our stockholders’ equity would decrease and our stock price could be adversely affected. In such event, we may have to decrease or eliminate option grants to our officers and employees, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and executive personnel. While the Company does not currently have a stock option plan, such a plan may be established in the future. 10 In general, for purposes of the Code, an ownership change occurs when 5% or more owners increase their ownership percentage by more than 50% over the lowest percentage owned by those owners at any time during a testing period, which is generally the three years prior to the increase in ownership by 5% or more owners. The IRS has authority to treat warrants, options, contracts to acquire stock, convertible debt interests and other similar interests as if they are stock and stock as if it is not stock. In any event, it is possible that past and/or future transactions affecting our equity could create an ownership change and trigger this limitation on the use of our net operating loss. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our business faces intense competition. If we fail to adequately meet this competition, our business could be adversely affected. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources; longer operating histories and greater name recognition to apply to each of these factors, and in some cases have built significant reputations with the customer base in the markets in which we compete. If we are unable to successfully compete, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Because we have fixed costs, any decline in our revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Significant portions of our costs are fixed, due in part to our fixed sales, engineering and product support, and manufacturing facilities. As a result, relatively small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results. Changes in product demand, among other things, could adversely affect our manufacturing capacity, which would adversely affect our business. Our business may suffer if we lose the services of our executive officers, or if we cannot recruit and retain additional skilled personnel. We depend on the continued services and performance of Peter Frugone, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Rudolph Karundeng, one of our Directors, as well as Senior Advisor, Hans Karundeng and his subsidiary operations for our future success. If either Mr. Frugone or Mr. Rudolph Karundeng becomes unable or unwilling to continue in his current position, our business and financial conditions could be damaged. We are not the beneficiaries of any key person life insurance covering them or any other executive. RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK Your ability to sell any common stock may be restricted, because there is a limited trading market for these securities. Although our common stock is currently traded on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board, a liquid market in our stock has been sporadic. Accordingly, you may not be able to sell shares of our common stock when you want or at the price you want, if at all. In addition, depending on several factors including, among others, the future market price of our common stock, these securities are subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules that impose additional sales practice and market making requirements on broker-dealers who sell and/or make a market in such securities. These factors could affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell and/or make a market in our common stock and the ability of purchasers of our common stock to sell their shares in the secondary market. A delisting could also negatively affect our ability to raise capital in the future. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could adversely affect the value of any common stock that you may own. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors: · variations in our quarterly operating results; · our announcements of significant contracts, milestones or acquisitions; · our relationships with other companies; · our ability to obtain capital commitments; · additions or departures of our key personnel; · sales of our common stock by others or termination of stock transfer restrictions; · changes in estimates of our financial condition by securities analysts; and 11 · fluctuations in stock market price and volume. The last three factors are beyond our control. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. Such litigation is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources. Any one of the factors noted above could have an adverse affect on the value of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and in our Certificate of Incorporation could discourage a merger or other type of corporate reorganization or a change in control, even if it could be favorable to the interests of our stockholders. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our Certificate of Incorporation contain provisions that may enable our management to retain control and resist a takeover of our Company. These provisions generally prevent us from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with an owner of 15%, 20% in the case of our Certificate of Incorporation, or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date that this person acquires his stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation and our By Laws also require the affirmative vote of at least 60% or our voting stockholders to effect certain actions, including, under certain circumstances, the removal of directors, and provide for the election of different classes of directors with the term of each class ending at different times. Accordingly, these provisions could discourage or make more difficult a change in control or a merger or other type of corporate reorganization even if it could be favorable to the interests of our stockholders. Our officers and directors exercise significant control over our affairs, which could result in their taking actions that other stockholders do not approve of. Our executive officers and directors, and persons or entities affiliated with them, currently control approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control of our Company and might affect the market price of our common stock. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, to invest in our business. If our Board issues common stock, which it can do without stockholder approval, a purchaser of our common stock could experience substantial dilution. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1 billion shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock without stockholder approval. In the future, we could issue additional shares of our common stock at values substantially below the current market price for our common stock, which could substantially dilute the equity ownership of holders of our common stock. In addition, our Board could issue large blocks of our common stock to prevent unwanted tender offers or hostile takeovers without any stockholder approval. Our ability to issue preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of common stockholders and be used as an anti-takeover device. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock without approval from our stockholders. Accordingly, all of our common stock will be junior to any preferred stock issued by us, and our Board has the right, without the approval of common stockholders, to fix the relative rights and preferences of such preferred stock. This could affect the rights of common stockholders regarding, among other things, voting, dividends and liquidation. We could also use an issuance of preferred stock to deter or delay a change in control that may be opposed by our management, even if the transaction might be favorable to the common stockholders. The Company might issue options and warrants in the future. The exercise of all of the outstanding options and warrants would dilute the then-existing stockholders’ percentage ownership of our common stock. Any sales resulting from the exercise of options and warrants in the public market, such as sales by the selling stockholders pursuant to this prospectus, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Moreover, our ability to obtain additional equity capital could be adversely affected since the holders of outstanding options and warrants may exercise them at a time when we would also wish to enter the market to obtain capital on terms more favorable than those provided by such options and warrants. We lack control over the timing of any exercise or the number of shares issued or sold if exercises occur. 12 