Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors could adversely impact our business. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements (i) we make in registration statements, periodic reports and other filings with the SEC and from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written reports or communications, and (ii) made orally from time to time by our representatives. The homebuilding industry is experiencing a prolonged and severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and adversely affect our business and results of operations compared to prior periods. In 2008 and 2007, many of our served markets and the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole continued to experience a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale, conditions that generally began in 2006. In many markets, a rapid increase in new and existing home prices in the years leading up to and including 2006 reduced housing affordability relative to consumer incomes and tempered buyer demand. At the same time, investors and speculators reduced their purchasing activity and instead stepped up their efforts to sell residential property they had earlier acquired. These trends, which were more pronounced in markets that had experienced the greatest levels of price appreciation, resulted in overall fewer home sales, greater cancellations of home purchase agreements by buyers, higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use by homebuilders, speculators, investors and others of discounts, incentives, price concessions and other marketing efforts to close home sales in 2008 and 2007 compared to the past several years. In 2008 and 2007, these negative supply and demand trends were exacerbated by increasing foreclosure activity that reached successive record highs, a severe downturn in general economic conditions, weakening employment trends, turmoil in credit and consumer lending markets and tighter lending standards. Reflecting the impact of this difficult environment, we, like many other homebuilders, experienced a large drop in net orders, a decline in the average selling price of new homes sold and a reduction in our margins in 2008 and 2007 relative to prior years, and generated operating losses. We can provide no assurances that the homebuilding market will improve in the near future. In fact, we expect the weakness to continue, and possibly worsen, in 2009 and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business and our results of operations, including, but not limited to, lower home sales and revenues. Further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements or further turmoil in credit and mortgage lending markets could adversely affect the availability of credit for some potential purchasers of our homes and thereby reduce our sales. During 2008 and 2007, the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries experienced significant instability due to, among other things, delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures on home loans and a resulting decline in their market value, particularly subprime and adjustable-rate loans. A number of providers, purchasers and insurers of such loans have gone out of business or exited the market. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and others questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity, increased credit risk premiums and regulatory actions. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime, adjustable-rate and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to stop offering such loan products. Fewer loan products and providers and tighter loan qualifications in turn make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes or the purchase of existing homes from potential move-up buyers who wish to purchase one of our homes. In general, these developments have resulted in a reduction in 12 Table of Contents demand for our homes and slowed any general improvement in the housing market. Furthermore, they have resulted in a reduction in demand for the mortgage loans originated through our Countrywide KB Home Loans joint venture. These reductions in demand have had, and are expected to continue to have, a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations in 2009. Many of our homebuyers obtain financing for their home purchases from Countrywide KB Home Loans. Our partner, a Bank of America, N.A. subsidiary, provides the loan products that the joint venture offers to our homebuyers. If our partner refuses or is unable to make loan products available to the joint venture to provide to our homebuyers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry have had limited success, and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. While we have been successful in generating positive operating cash flow and reducing our inventories in 2008 and 2007, we have done so at significantly reduced gross profit levels and have incurred significant asset impairment charges. Moreover, many of our strategic initiatives to generate cash and reduce our inventories have involved lowering overhead through workforce reductions, for which we incurred significant costs, and reducing our active community counts through strategic wind downs or market exits, curbs in development and sales of land interests. These strategic steps have resulted in our generating successively fewer net orders, homes delivered and revenues compared to prior periods, and contributed to the net losses we recognized in 2008 and 2007. Also, in 2008, notwithstanding our sales strategies, we continued to experience volatility in cancellations of home purchase contracts. We believe that the volatile cancellation rates largely reflected a decrease in homebuyer confidence based on sustained home price declines, increased offerings of sales incentives in the marketplace for both new and existing homes and generally poor economic conditions, all of which prompted homebuyers to forgo or delay home purchases. The more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also led to lower demand for new homes and higher cancellations. Many of these factors affecting new orders and cancellation rates are beyond our control. It is uncertain how long these factors, and the reduced sales levels and volatility in cancellations we have experienced will continue. To the extent that they do, we expect that they will have a negative effect on our business and our results of operations. Our business is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. Our business can be substantially affected by adverse changes in general economic or business conditions that are outside of our control, including changes in: • short- and long-term interest rates; • the availability of financing for homebuyers; • consumer confidence generally and the confidence of potential homebuyers in particular; • U.S. and global financial system and credit market stability; • private and federal mortgage financing programs and federal and state regulation of lending practices; • federal and state income tax provisions, including provisions for the deduction of mortgage interest payments; • housing demand from population growth and demographic changes, among other factors; • the supply of available new or existing homes and other housing alternatives, such as apartments and other residential rental property; • employment levels and job and personal income growth; and • real estate taxes. Adverse changes in these conditions may affect our business nationally or may be more prevalent or concentrated in particular regions or localities in which we operate. In 2008 and 2007, unfavorable changes in many of these factors negatively affected all of our served markets, and we expect the widespread nature of the downturn in the housing market to continue in 2009. A continued downturn in the economy would likely worsen the unfavorable trends the housing market experienced in 2008 and 2007. Weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions, can also impair our homebuilding business on a local or regional basis. Civil unrest or acts of terrorism can also have a negative effect on our business. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuating lumber prices and shortages, as well as shortages or price fluctuations in other building materials or commodities, can have an adverse effect on our business. Similarly, labor shortages or unrest among key trades, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers, can delay the delivery of our homes and increase our costs. The potential difficulties described above can cause demand and prices for our homes to diminish or cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices because of market conditions and because the price of each home we sell is usually set several months before the home is delivered, as our customers typically sign their home purchase contracts before construction begins. The potential difficulties described above could cause some homebuyers to cancel or refuse to honor their home purchase contracts altogether. In fact, reflecting the difficult conditions in our served markets, we continued to experience volatile home purchase contract cancellation rates in 2008 and we may experience similar volatility in 2009. Supply shortages and other risks related to demand for building materials and/or skilled labor could increase costs and delay deliveries. There is a high level of competition in the homebuilding industry for skilled labor and building materials. Increased costs or shortages in building materials or skilled labor could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into home purchase contracts, as the purchase contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, and may be signed well in advance of when construction commences. Further, we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs because of market conditions. Sustained increases in construction costs due, among other things, to pricing competition for materials and skilled labor may, over time, decrease our margins. Inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs that we may not be able to recover, particularly if sales prices decrease. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and skilled labor may call for us to increase sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. However, if the current challenging and highly competitive conditions in the homebuilding market persist, we may further decrease prices in an attempt to stimulate sales volume. Our lowering of sales prices, in addition to impacting our margins on new homes, may also reduce the value of our land inventory and make it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land with new home sales prices or, if we choose, in disposing of land assets. In addition, depressed land values may cause us to forfeit deposits on land option contracts if we cannot satisfactorily renegotiate the purchase price of the optioned land. We may incur noncash charges for inventory impairments if the value of our owned inventory is reduced or for land option contract abandonments if we choose not to exercise land option contracts. Reduced home sales may impair our ability to recoup development costs or force us to absorb additional costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. Depending on the stage of development, these include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. Also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that may be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. Because of current market conditions, we have strategically terminated some of these options, resulting in the forfeiture of deposits and unrecoverable due diligence and development costs. The value of the land and housing inventory we own or control may fall significantly and our profits may decrease. The value of the land and housing inventory we currently own or control depends on market conditions, including estimates of future demand for, and the revenues that can be generated from, such inventory. The market value of our land inventory can vary considerably because there is often a significant amount of time between our initial acquisition or optioning of land and the delivery of homes on that land. The downturn in the housing market has caused the fair value of certain of our owned or controlled inventory to fall, in some cases well below the estimated fair value at the time we acquired it. Because of our assessments of fair value, we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our inventory, including certain inventory that we have previously written down, and take corresponding noncash charges against our earnings to reflect the impaired value. We have also abandoned our interests in certain land inventory that no longer meets our internal investment standards, which also required us to take noncash charges. If the current downturn in the housing market continues, we may need to take additional charges against our earnings for inventory 14 Table of Contents impairments or land option contract abandonments, or both. Any such noncash charges would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. Some homebuyers may cancel their home purchases because the required deposits are small and generally refundable. Our backlog numbers reflect the number of homes for which we have entered into a purchase contract with a customer but not yet delivered the home. Our home purchase contracts typically require only a small deposit, and in many states, the deposit is fully refundable at any time prior to closing. If the prices for new homes decline, competitors increase their use of sales incentives, interest rates increase, the availability of mortgage financing diminishes or there is a further downturn in local or regional economies or the national economy, homebuyers may terminate their existing home purchase contracts with us in order to negotiate for a lower price, explore other options or because they cannot, or become reluctant to, complete the purchase. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, we experienced elevated and volatile cancellation rates, in part because of these reasons. Continued elevated and volatile cancellation rates due to these conditions, or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our long-term success depends on the availability of improved lots and undeveloped land that meet our land investment criteria. The availability of finished and partially developed lots, and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal investment standards depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of attractive land could increase, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations including, but not limited to, our margins. Home prices and sales activity in the particular markets and regions in which we do business affect our results of operations because our business is concentrated in these markets. Home prices and sales activity in some of our key served markets have declined from time to time for market-specific reasons, including adverse weather, lack of affordability or economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or decline of key industries and employers. If home prices or sales activity decline in one or more of our key served markets, particularly in Arizona, California, Florida, Nevada or Texas, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our overall results of operations may be adversely affected. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs or regulation could lower demand for our homes. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes. Prior to 2006, historically low interest rates and the increased availability of specialized mortgage products, including mortgage products requiring no or low down payments, and interest-only and adjustable rate mortgages, had made homebuying more affordable for a number of customers and more available to customers with lower credit scores. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs, as discussed above, may lead to fewer mortgage loans being provided, higher down payment requirements or monthly mortgage costs, or a combination of the foregoing, and, as a result, reduce demand for our homes. Increased interest rates can also hinder our ability to realize our backlog because our home purchase contracts provide our customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event they cannot arrange for adequate financing. Because the availability of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA- and VA-backed mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce our home sales and adversely affect our results of operations. This may occur as a result of the federal government’s conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2008. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations, under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as some policy makers have discussed recently, by eliminating or substantially reducing these income tax 15 Table of Contents benefits, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for and/or sales prices of new homes. We are subject to substantial legal and regulatory requirements regarding the development of land, the homebuilding process and protection of the environment, which can cause us to suffer delays and incur costs associated with compliance and which can prohibit or restrict homebuilding activity in some regions or areas. Our homebuilding business is heavily regulated and subject to an increasing amount of local, state and federal regulation concerning zoning, resource protection and other environmental impacts, building design, construction and similar matters. These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that oversee these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of a specified project or a number of projects in particular markets. We may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to building moratoria and permitting requirements in any of the areas in which we operate. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment, and recently entered into a consent decree with the EPA and certain states concerning our storm water pollution prevention practices. These laws and regulations and the consent decree may cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. In addition, environmental laws may impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances whether or not the developer or owner of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances. The presence of those substances on our properties may prevent us from selling our homes and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or lawsuits brought by private parties, for hazardous or toxic substances on properties and lots that we have sold in the past. Further, a significant portion of our business is conducted in California, one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country. Therefore, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than other homebuilders with a less significant California presence. The mortgage banking operations of Countrywide KB Home Loans are heavily regulated and subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies. There are a number of federal and state statutes and regulations which, among other things, prohibit discrimination, establish underwriting guidelines that include obtaining inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and fix maximum loan amounts. A finding that we or Countrywide KB Home Loans materially violated any of the foregoing laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to a Consent Order that we entered into with the Federal Trade Commission in 1979 and related Consent Decrees that were entered into in 1991 and 2005. Pursuant to the Consent Order and the related Consent Decrees, we provide explicit warranties on the quality of our homes, follow certain guidelines in advertising and provide certain disclosures to prospective purchasers of our homes. A finding that we have significantly violated the Consent Order and/or the related Consent Decrees could result in substantial liabilities or penalties and could limit our ability to sell homes in certain markets. Homebuilding and financial services are very competitive, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, building materials, skilled management and trade labor. We compete in each of our served markets with other local, regional and national homebuilders, including those with a sales presence on the Internet, often within larger subdivisions containing portions designed, planned and developed by such homebuilders. These homebuilders may also have long-standing relationships with local labor, materials suppliers or land sellers, which may provide an advantage in their respective regions or local markets. We also compete with other housing alternatives, such as existing home sales (including existing homes sold through foreclosures) and rental housing. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry can result in: • our delivering fewer homes; • our selling homes at lower selling prices; • our offering or increasing sales incentives, discounts or price concessions; 16 Table of Contents • our experiencing lower profit margins; • declining new home sales or increasing cancellations by homebuyers of their home purchase contracts with us; • impairments in the value of our inventory and other assets; • difficulty in acquiring desirable land that meets our investment return criteria, and in selling our interests in land that no longer meet such criteria on favorable terms; • difficulty in our acquiring raw materials and skilled management and labor at acceptable prices; or • delays in construction of our homes. These competitive conditions may adversely affect our business and financial results by decreasing our revenues, increasing our costs and/or diminishing growth in our local or regional homebuilding business. In the current downturn in the homebuilding industry, the reactions of our new home and housing alternative competitors are reducing the effectiveness of our efforts to achieve pricing stability, generate home sales, and reduce our inventory levels. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. In the ordinary course of our homebuilding business, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims. We record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our served markets and our judgment of the risks associated with the types of homes we build. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. Through our captive insurance subsidiary, we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future, or that any potential inadequacies will not have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted, increasing our risks, and become more costly. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results fluctuate. We have experienced seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We typically do not commence significant construction on a home before a home purchase contract has been signed with a homebuyer. Historically, a significant percentage of our home purchase contracts are entered into in the spring and summer months, and a corresponding significant percentage of our deliveries occur in the fall and winter months. Construction of our homes typically requires approximately four months and weather delays that often occur in late winter and early spring may extend this period. As a result of these combined factors, we historically have experienced uneven quarterly results, with lower revenues and operating income generally during the first and second quarters of the year. However, the increasingly challenging market conditions we experienced in 2008 resulted in lower sales in the spring and summer months and correspondingly lower deliveries in the fall and winter months as compared to 2007. With the current difficult market conditions expected to continue into 2009, we can make no assurances that our normal seasonal patterns will occur in the near future. Failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing our outstanding public notes impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The restrictions primarily relate to cash dividends, stock repurchases, incurrence of indebtedness, creation of liens and asset dispositions, defaults with respect to other debt obligations and require maintenance of a maximum debt to equity (or leverage) ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, and a minimum level of tangible net worth. If we fail to comply with these restrictions or covenants, the holders of those debt instruments or the banks, as appropriate, could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or could demand that we compensate them for waiving instances of noncompliance. In addition, a default under the indenture for any of our notes or our Credit Facility could cause a default with respect to our other notes or the Credit Facility, as the case may be, and result in the acceleration of the maturity of all such defaulted indebtedness and our inability to borrow under the Credit Facility, which would have a 17 Table of Contents significant adverse effect on our ability to invest in and grow our business. Moreover, we may curtail our investment activities and other uses of cash to maintain compliance with these restrictions and covenants. We participate in certain unconsolidated joint ventures where we may be adversely impacted by the failure of the unconsolidated joint venture or the other partners in the unconsolidated joint venture to fulfill their obligations. We have investments in and commitments to certain unconsolidated joint ventures with unrelated strategic partners to acquire and develop land and, in some cases, build and deliver homes. To finance these activities, our unconsolidated joint ventures often obtain loans from third-party lenders that are secured by the unconsolidated joint venture’s assets. In certain instances, we and the other partners in an unconsolidated joint venture provide guarantees and indemnities to lenders with respect to the unconsolidated joint venture’s debt, which may be triggered under certain conditions when the unconsolidated joint venture fails to fulfill its obligations under its loan agreements. Because we do not have a controlling interest in these unconsolidated joint ventures, we depend heavily on the other partners in each unconsolidated joint venture to both (i) cooperate and make mutually acceptable decisions regarding the conduct of the business and affairs of the unconsolidated joint venture and (ii) ensure that they, and the unconsolidated joint venture, fulfill their respective obligations to us and to third parties. If the other partners in our unconsolidated joint ventures do not provide such cooperation or fulfill these obligations due to their financial condition, strategic business interests (which may be contrary to ours), or otherwise, we may be required to spend additional resources (including payments under the guarantees we have provided to the unconsolidated joint ventures’ lenders) and suffer losses, each of which could be significant. Moreover, our ability to recoup such expenditures and losses by exercising remedies against such partners may be limited due to potential legal defenses they may have, their respective financial condition and other circumstances. The downturn in the housing market and the continuation of the disruptions in the credit markets could limit our ability to access capital and increase our costs of capital or stockholder dilution. We have historically funded our homebuilding and financial services operations with internally generated cash flows and external sources of debt and equity financing. However, during this downturn in the housing market, we have relied primarily on the positive operating cash flow we have generated to meet our working capital needs and repay outstanding indebtedness. While we anticipate generating positive operating cash flow in 2009, principally through the receipt of federal income tax refunds and from home and land sales, the prolonged downturn in the housing markets and the disruption in the credit markets have reduced the availability to us of other sources of liquidity. As of November 30, 2008, we had $200.0 million of 85/8% senior subordinated notes (the “$200 Million Senior Subordinated Notes”) outstanding, which matured on December 15, 2008. We had sufficient cash on hand and redeemed these notes upon their scheduled maturity. However, current market conditions would significantly limit our ability to replace this indebtedness if we chose to do so, particularly due to the lowering of our senior debt ratings by three rating agencies during 2008. Pricing in the public debt markets has increased substantially, and the indenture terms available in these markets are generally more restrictive than those in our current indentures. Moreover, due to the deterioration in the credit markets and the uncertainties that exist in the general economy and for homebuilders in particular, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace existing financing or secure additional sources of financing. In addition, the significant decline in our stock price, the ongoing volatility in the stock markets and the reduction in our stockholders’ equity relative to our debt could also impede our access to the equity markets or increase the amount of dilution our stockholders would experience should we seek or need to raise capital through issuance of equity. While we believe we can meet our forecasted capital requirements from our cash resources, future cash flow and the sources of financing that we anticipate will be available to us, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so, particularly if current difficult housing or credit market or economic conditions continue or deteriorate further. The effects on our business, liquidity and financial results of these conditions could be material and adverse to us. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Since the end of our 2007 fiscal year, we have generated significant net operating losses, (“NOLs”), and we may generate additional NOLs in 2009. Under federal tax laws, we can use our NOLs (and certain related tax credits) to offset ordinary income tax on our future taxable income for up to 20 years, after which they expire for such purposes. Until they expire, we can carry forward our NOLs (and certain related tax credits) that we do not use in any particular year to offset income tax in future years. 18 Table of Contents The benefits of our NOLs would be reduced or eliminated if we experience an “ownership change,” as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. A Section 382 “ownership change” occurs if a stockholder or a group of stockholders who are deemed to own at least 5% of our common stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an “ownership change” occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of NOLs we can use to offset income tax equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the “ownership change” (reduced by certain items specified in Section 382) and the federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the “ownership change.” A number of special rules apply to calculating this annual limit. While the complexity of Section 382’s provisions and the limited knowledge any public company has about the ownership of its publicly-traded stock make it difficult to determine whether an “ownership change” has occurred, we currently believe that an “ownership change” has not occurred. However, if an “ownership change” were to occur, the annual limit Section 382 may impose could result in a material amount of our NOLs expiring unused. This would significantly impair the value of our NOL assets and, as a result, have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. A decline in our tangible net worth and the resulting increase in our leverage ratio may place burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, may restrict our ability to operate and may prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. The amount of our debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; • impact our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; • place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. Our business is substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues, earnings and cash flows vary with the level of general economic activity and competition in the markets in which we operate. Our business could also be affected by financial, political and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Changes in prevailing interest rates may also affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations because borrowings under our Credit Facility bear interest at floating rates. A higher interest rate on our debt could adversely affect our operating results. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our Credit Facility in an amount sufficient to pay our debt service obligations, fulfill financial or operational guarantees we have provided for certain unconsolidated joint venture transactions, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In fact, the total commitment available under our Credit Facility was reduced in 2008. Should we not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or have borrowings available to us under our Credit Facility, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all, or through equity issuances that would dilute existing stockholders’ interests. However, we currently do not anticipate a need to borrow under the Credit Facility through its November 2010 maturity. We may have difficulty in continuing to obtain the additional financing required to operate and develop our business. Our homebuilding operations require significant amounts of cash and/or available credit. It is not possible to predict the future terms or availability of additional capital. Moreover, our outstanding public debt and the Credit Facility contain provisions that may restrict the amount and nature of debt we may incur in the future. The Credit Facility limits our ability to borrow additional funds by placing a maximum cap on our leverage ratio. Under the most restrictive of these provisions, at November 30, 2008, we would have been permitted to incur up to $1.55 billion of consolidated total indebtedness, as defined in the Credit Facility. This maximum amount exceeded our actual consolidated total indebtedness at November 30, 2008 by $814.5 million. In addition, the Credit Facility limits our ability to borrow senior indebtedness, as defined in the Credit Facility, subject to a specified borrowing base. At November 30, 2008, we would have been permitted to incur up to 19 Table of Contents $2.47 billion of senior indebtedness under the Credit Facility. This maximum amount exceeded our actual total senior indebtedness at November 30, 2008 by $825.0 million. There can be no assurance that we can actually borrow up to these maximum amounts of total consolidated indebtedness or senior indebtedness at any time, as our ability to borrow additional funds, and to raise additional capital through other means, also depends on conditions in the capital markets and our perceived credit worthiness, as discussed above. If conditions in the capital markets change significantly, it could reduce our ability to generate sales and may hinder our future growth and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 