Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Current economic cycles, particularly those involving reduced levels of commercial and residential starts and remodeling, may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. The businesses of most of our customers, particularly plumbing and heating wholesalers and home improvement retailers, are cyclical. Therefore, the level of our business activity has been cyclical, fluctuating with economic cycles. The recent economic downturn may also affect the financial stability of our customers, which could affect their ability to pay amounts owed to their vendors, including us. We also believe our level of business activity is influenced by commercial and residential starts and renovation and remodeling, which are, in turn, heavily influenced by interest rates, consumer debt levels, changes in disposable income, employment growth and consumer confidence. The current credit market conditions may prevent commercial and residential builders or developers from obtaining the necessary capital to continue existing projects or to start new projects. This may result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers or potential customers and may adversely affect our revenues and our ability to manage inventory levels, collect customer receivables and maintain profitability. The current conditions in the housing and debt markets have caused a significant reduction in commercial and residential starts and renovation and remodeling. These conditions have adversely impacted our revenue and profit. If these conditions continue or worsen in the future, our revenues and profits could decrease and could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition and, if we are not able to respond to competition in our markets, our revenues may decrease. Competitive pressures in our markets could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits. We encounter intense competition in all areas of our business. Additionally, we believe our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventories and their transaction costs. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continually in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments and we may be unable to maintain our competitive position. In addition, we anticipate that we may have to reduce the prices of some of our products to stay competitive, potentially resulting in a reduction in the profit margin for, and inventory valuation of, these products. Some of our competitors are based in foreign countries and have cost structures and prices in foreign currencies. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could cause our U.S. dollar-priced products to be less competitive than our competitors' products which are priced in other currencies. Changes in the costs of raw materials could reduce our profit margins. Reductions or interruptions in the supply of components or finished goods from international sources could adversely affect our ability to meet our customer delivery commitments. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including bronze, brass, cast iron, steel and plastic, and substantially all of the raw materials we require are purchased from outside sources. The costs of raw materials may be subject to change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers and changes in exchange rates and worldwide price and demand levels. We typically do not enter into long-term supply agreements. Our inability to obtain supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations by decreasing our profit margins. The commodity markets have experienced tremendous volatility over the past several years, particularly copper. The market price of copper increased by 35.6% from January 1, 2010 to February 9, 2011. Should commodity costs continue to increase substantially, we may not be able to completely recover such costs, through selling price increases to our customers or other product cost reductions, which would have a negative effect on our 11 financial results. Additionally, we continue to purchase increased levels of components and finished goods from international sources. In limited cases, these components or finished goods are single-sourced. The availability of components and finished goods from international sources could be adversely impacted by, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers and new laws or regulations. Government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market or sell our products. In January 2011, the President of the United States signed the Reduction of Lead in Drinking Water Act, which will reduce the permissable weighted average lead content in faucets, fittings and valves intended for use in potable water applications from 8% to 0.25% nationwide beginning in January 2014. The new law is consistent with current legislation in California and Vermont that went into effect in January 2010. We introduced lead-free products for sale in California and Vermont and offer a large selection of lead-free compliant valves and fittings. Complying with these new requirements on a nationwide basis will pose a significant challenge for us. The transition to comply with the expected requirements may cause our material costs to increase as suppliers of alternative lead-free metals are currently limited. We may not succeed in passing through these cost increases to our customers. We may also experience technical challenges in our manufacturing process in converting our present manufacturing operations to 100% lead-free products. In addition, we could have difficulty providing sufficient quantities of our lead-free compliant products to meet nationwide demand and we could be left with potentially obsolete traditional leaded product inventories if customers convert to lead-free offerings faster than anticipated. These requirements could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenues or our profitability. One of our strategies is to increase our revenues and profitability and expand our business through acquisitions that will provide us with complementary products and increase market share for our existing product lines. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional companies or successfully integrate such additional companies without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Also, companies acquired recently and in the future may not achieve revenues, profitability or cash flows that justify our investment in them. For example, in February 2011, we announced our intention to purchase Danfoss Socla (Socla) and certain related business assets. Socla is a manufacturer of a wide range of water protection valves and flow control solutions for the water market and the heating, ventilation and air conditioning market. The company is based in France and its products are distributed worldwide for municipal, industrial, commercial and residential use. If we consummate this acquisition, we expect to spend significant time and effort in integrating the Socla business and in identifying, completing and integrating other future acquisitions. We have faced increasing competition for acquisition candidates which have resulted in significant increases in the purchase prices of many acquisition candidates. This competition, and the resulting purchase price increases, may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us, possibly leading to a decrease in the rate of growth of our revenues and profitability. In addition, acquisitions may involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: •inadequate internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to bring such controls into compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner; •adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results; •diversion of management's attention; •investigations of, or challenges to, acquisitions by competition authorities; •loss of key personnel at acquired companies; and 12 •unanticipated management or operational problems or legal liabilities. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. We maintain strict quality controls and procedures, including the testing of raw materials and safety testing of selected finished products. However, we cannot be certain that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products or the materials from which they are made, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. We also cannot be certain that our suppliers will always eliminate latent defects in products we purchase from them. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product's warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers and we may lose market share with our customers. Our insurance policies may not cover the costs of a product recall. Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks from product liability and other lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business. We have been and expect to continue to be subject to various product liability claims or other lawsuits, including, among others, that our products include inadequate or improper instructions for use or installation, or inadequate warnings concerning the effects of the failure of our products. If we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, damages from these claims would have to be paid from our assets and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Like other manufacturers and distributors of products designed to control and regulate fluids and gases, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and other lawsuits in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury, property damage or business interruption to our customers. Although we maintain strict quality controls and procedures, including the testing of raw materials and safety testing of selected finished products, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defect. In addition, in certain cases, we rely on third-party manufacturers for our products or components of our products. Although we have product liability and general insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or, if available, will be adequate to cover any such liabilities. For more information, see "Item 1. Business—Product Liability, Environmental and Other Litigation Matters." Economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and future operating results. Since we sell and manufacture our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our business and future operating results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: •Unexpected geo-political events in foreign countries in which we operate could adversely affect manufacturing and our ability to fulfill customer orders. Currently, there is political and economic unrest in Tunisia where we operate a low-cost manufacturing facility. Although our manufacturing operation has not been materially affected to date, we can give no assurance that future operations will not be adversely affected by unforeseen political events in that country; 13 •trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could increase our costs of doing business internationally; •potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws, which could have an adverse impact on our profits; •difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, which could reduce our productivity; •costs of compliance with differing labor regulations, especially in connection with restructuring our overseas operations; •laws of some foreign countries, which may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States; and •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, which may be costly and require time to implement. •Foreign exchange rate fluctuations could also materially affect our reported results. A portion of our sales and certain portions of our costs, assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars and the percentage of our revenues denominated in a particular currency may not match the percentage of our expenses denominated in that currency. Approximately 44.1% of our sales during the year ended December 31, 2010 were from sales outside of the U.S. compared to 45.1% for the year ended December 31, 2009. We cannot predict whether such currencies as the euro, Canadian dollar or Chinese yuan will appreciate or depreciate against the U.S. dollar in future periods or whether future foreign exchange rate fluctuations will have a positive or negative impact on our reported results. Our ability to achieve savings through our restructuring plans may be adversely affected by local regulations or factors beyond the control of management. We have implemented a number of restructuring plans, the most recent being the announced shutdown of two manufacturing facilities in North Carolina. Management's plans include a number of steps that we believe are necessary to reduce operating costs and increase efficiencies throughout our manufacturing, sales and distribution footprint. Although we have considered the impact of local regulations, negotiations with employee representatives, the timing of capital expenditures necessary to prepare facilities and the related costs associated with these activities, factors beyond the control of management may affect the timing and therefore affect when the savings will be achieved under the plans. Further, if we are not successful in completing the restructuring projects in the time frames contemplated or if additional issues arise during the projects that add costs or disrupt customer service, then our operating results could be negatively affected. Future operating results could be negatively affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and by potential changes to tax incentives In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. We periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. Any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessment would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. Our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. As issues arise during tax audits we adjust our tax accrual accordingly. Additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. If we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, our inability to use these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. 14 We are currently a decentralized company, which presents certain risks. We are currently a decentralized company, which sometimes places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. This presents various risks such as the risk of being slower to identify or react to problems affecting a key business. Additionally, implementing a company-wide initiative, such as adopting an integrated information system, are often more challenging and costly to implement. The requirements to evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment may result in a write-off of all or a portion of our recorded amounts, which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. As of December 31, 2010, our balance sheet included goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of $428.0 million and $46.6 million, respectively. In lieu of amortization, we are required to perform an annual impairment review of both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. In performing our annual reviews in 2010 and 2009, we recognized a non-cash pre-tax charge of approximately $1.4 million and $3.3 million, respectively, as an impairment of some of the indefinite-lived intangible assets. In performing our annual goodwill review in 2008, we recognized a non-cash pre-tax charge of approximately $22.0 million as an impairment of all the goodwill value related to one reporting unit. Although we have not experienced goodwill impairment in our remaining reporting units to date, there can be no assurances that future goodwill impairment will not occur. We perform our annual test for indications of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or sooner if indicators of impairment exist. The loss or financial instability of a major customer could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2010, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 22% of our total net sales with no one customer accounting for more than 10% of our total net sales. Our customers generally are not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and are able to terminate their relationships with us at any time. In addition, increases in the prices of our products could result in a reduction in orders for our customers. A significant reduction in orders from, or change in terms of contracts with, any significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Furthermore, some of our major customers are facing financial challenges due to market declines and heavy debt levels; should these challenges become acute, our results could be materially adversely affected due to reduced orders and/or payment delays or defaults. Certain indebtedness may limit our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt and make acquisitions and other investments. Our revolving credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain operational and financial covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders, incur additional debt and make acquisitions and other investments unless we satisfy certain financial tests and comply with various financial ratios. If we do not maintain compliance with these covenants, our creditors could declare a default under our revolving credit facility or senior notes and our indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with the provisions of our indebtedness may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions beyond our control. Further, one of our strategies is to increase our revenues and profitability and expand our business through acquisitions. We may require capital in excess of our available cash and the unused portion of our revolving credit facility to make large acquisitions, which we would generally obtain from access to the credit markets. There can be no assurance that if a large acquisition is identified that we would have access to sufficient capital to complete such acquisition. Given the current condition of the credit markets, should we require additional debt financing above our existing credit limit, we cannot be assured such financing would be available to us or available to us on reasonable economic terms. 15 We are negotiating with the SEC and DOJ with respect to potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the results of this negotiation could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, operations, financial condition and cash flow. As previously disclosed, we conducted an investigation into payments made by employees of a former subsidiary of the Company in China to individuals associated with state-owned agencies that may violate the FCPA. We voluntarily disclosed this matter to the SEC and DOJ. We have engaged in negotiations with the staff of the SEC and DOJ to resolve potential violations of the FCPA relating to these payments. If violations are found, we may be subject to criminal and/or civil sanctions, including substantial fines. Negotiated dispositions of these types of violations also often result in an acknowledgement of wrongdoing by the entity and the appointment of a monitor on terms agreed upon with the DOJ and the SEC to review and monitor current and future business practices with the goal of assuring future FCPA compliance, which could cause us to incur significant costs. The amount of any fines or monetary penalties which could be assessed would depend on, among other factors, findings regarding the amount, timing, nature and scope of any improper payments, whether any such payments were authorized by or made with knowledge of Watts or its affiliates, the amount of gross pecuniary gain or loss involved, and the level of cooperation provided to the government authorities during the investigation. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, operations, financial condition and cash flow. One of our stockholders can exercise substantial influence over our Company. Our Class B Common Stock entitles its holders to ten votes for each share and our Class A Common Stock entitles its holders to one vote per share. As of February 1, 2011, Timothy P. Horne beneficially owned approximately 19.0% of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock (assuming conversion of all shares of Class B Common Stock beneficially owned by Mr. Horne into Class A Common Stock) and approximately 99.3% of our outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, which represents approximately 69.4% of the total outstanding voting power. As long as Mr. Horne controls shares representing at least a majority of the total voting power of our outstanding stock, Mr. Horne will be able to unilaterally determine the outcome of most stockholder votes, and other stockholders will not be able to affect the outcome of any such votes. Conversion and sale of a significant number of shares of our Class B Common Stock could adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. As of February 1, 2011, there were outstanding 30,102,677 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 6,953,680 shares of our Class B Common Stock. Shares of our Class B Common Stock may be converted into Class A Common Stock at any time on a one for one basis. Under the terms of a registration rights agreement with respect to outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock, the holders of our Class B Common Stock have rights with respect to the registration of the underlying Class A Common Stock. Under these registration rights, the holders of Class B Common Stock may require, on up to two occasions, that we register their shares for public resale. If we are eligible to use Form S-3 or a similar short-form registration statement, the holders of Class B Common Stock may require that we register their shares for public resale up to two times per year. If we elect to register any shares of Class A Common Stock for any public offering, the holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to include shares of Class A Common Stock into which such shares of Class B Common Stock may be converted in such registration. However, we may reduce the number of shares proposed to be registered in view of market conditions. We will pay all expenses in connection with any registration, other than underwriting discounts and commissions. If all of the available registered shares are sold into the public market the trading price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 16 