Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Current economic cycles, particularly reduced levels of residential and non-residential starts and remodeling, may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. The businesses of most of our customers, particularly plumbing and heating wholesalers and home improvement retailers, are cyclical. Therefore, the level of our business activity has been cyclical, fluctuating with economic cycles. The current economic downturn may also affect the financial stability of our customers, which could impact their ability to pay amounts owed vendors, including us. We also believe our level of business activity is influenced by residential and non-residential starts and renovation and remodeling, which are, in turn, heavily influenced by interest rates, consumer debt levels, changes in disposable income, employment growth and consumer confidence. The current conditions in the housing and debt markets have caused a significant reduction in residential and non-residential starts and renovation and remodeling. These conditions have caused a decrease in our revenue and profit. If these conditions continue or worsen in the future, our revenues and profits could decrease and could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make large acquisitions may be limited due to the current credit market conditions. As widely reported, the financial markets worldwide have been experiencing, among other things, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. One of our strategies is to increase our revenues and profitability and expand our markets through acquisitions. We may require capital in excess of our available cash and the unused portion of our revolving credit facility to make large acquisitions, which we would generally obtain from access to the credit markets. However, the current economic environment may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit in the future. There can be no assurance that if a large acquisition is identified that we would have access to sufficient capital to complete such acquisition. Sales of our products to customers serving the commercial market may be impacted by the delay or cancellation of projects due to the current credit market conditions. Our products are sold to commercial builders and others in the commercial construction market. The current credit market conditions may prevent commercial builders or developers from obtaining the necessary capital to continue existing projects or to start new projects. This may result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers or potential customers and may adversely affect our revenues and our ability to manage inventory levels, collect customer receivables and maintain profitability. 14 Our ability to improve our profitability through the introduction of new technology in the manufacturing process may be delayed due to the reallocation of capital. With the current economic outlook worldwide, it is necessary for us to make decisions on the best immediate use of capital. In reaching those decisions, certain planned capital expenditures which would modernize or improve throughput at our manufacturing locations may be delayed until the current credit market improves. The delay of these capital expenditures may impact our ability to realize efficiencies through new technologies and may result in increased maintenance costs in the business. We face intense competition and, if we are not able to respond to competition in our markets, our revenues may decrease. Competitive pressures in our markets could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits. We encounter intense competition in all areas of our business. Additionally, we believe our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventories and their transaction costs. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continually in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments and we may be unable to maintain our competitive position. In addition, we anticipate that we may have to reduce the prices of some of our products to stay competitive, potentially resulting in a reduction in the profit margin for, and inventory valuation of, these products. Some of our competitors are based in foreign countries and have cost structures and prices in foreign currencies. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could cause our U.S. dollar-priced products to be less competitive than our competitors' products which are priced in other currencies. Reductions or interruptions in the supply of raw materials and changes in the costs of raw materials could reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our ability to meet our customer delivery commitments. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including bronze, brass, cast iron, steel and plastic and substantially all of the raw materials we require are purchased from outside sources. The availability and costs of raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers and changes in exchange rates and worldwide price and demand levels. We typically do not enter into long-term supply agreements. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable costs, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations by decreasing our profit margins and by hindering our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. During 2006 and continuing through approximately July 3, 2008, commodity costs rose significantly from demands in the worldwide marketplace. During the latter half of 2008, commodity costs, including copper, decreased significantly as most industrialized and emerging economies began experiencing recessions. If we cannot maintain our selling prices before our inventory costs reflect the recent rapid decline in copper prices our profitability could decline. Should commodity costs increase substantially again in the future, we may not be able to completely recover such costs, as happened in 2006 and 2007, through selling price increases to our customers or other product cost reductions, which would have a negative effect on our financial results. Additionally, we continue to purchase increased levels of finished product from international sources. If there is an interruption in delivering these finished products to our domestic warehouses, this could have a negative effect on our financial results. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenues or our profitability. One of our strategies is to increase our revenues and profitability and expand our markets through acquisitions that will provide us with complementary water-related products and increase market share for our existing product lines. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, acquire or 15 profitably manage additional companies or successfully integrate such additional companies without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Also, companies acquired recently and in the future may not achieve revenues, profitability or cash flows that justify our investment in them. We expect to spend significant time and effort in expanding our existing businesses and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions. We have faced increasing competition for acquisition candidates which have resulted in significant increases in the purchase prices of many acquisition candidates. This competition, and the resulting purchase price increases, may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us, possibly leading to a decrease in the rate of growth of our revenues and profitability. In addition, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including, but not limited to: •inadequate internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to bring such controls into compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner; •adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results; •diversion of management's attention; •investigations of, or challenges to, acquisitions by competition authorities; •loss of key personnel at acquired companies; and •unanticipated management or operational problems or legal liabilities. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. We maintain strict quality controls and procedures, including the testing of raw materials and safety testing of selected finished products. However, we cannot be certain that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products or the materials from which they are made, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. We also cannot be certain that our suppliers will always eliminate latent defects in products we purchase from them. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product's warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers and we may lose market share with our customers. Our insurance policies may not cover the costs of a product recall. Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks from product liability and other lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business. We have been and expect to continue to be subject to various product liability claims or other lawsuits, including, among others, that our products include inadequate or improper instructions for use or installation, or inadequate warnings concerning the effects of the failure of our products. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, damages from these claims would have to be paid from our assets and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We, like other manufacturers and distributors of products designed to control and regulate fluids and gases, face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and other lawsuits in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury, property damage or business interruption to our customers. Although we maintain strict quality controls and 16 procedures, including the testing of raw materials and safety testing of selected finished products, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defect. In addition, in certain cases, we rely on third-party manufacturers for our products or components of our products. Although we have product liability and general insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or, if available, will be adequate to cover any such liabilities. For more information, see "Item 1. Business—Product Liability, Environmental and Other Litigation Matters." Economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and future operating results. Since we sell and manufacture our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our business and future operating results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: •trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could increase our costs of doing business internationally; •potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws, which could have an adverse impact on our profits; •difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, which could reduce our productivity; •costs of compliance with differing labor regulations, especially in connection with restructuring our overseas operations; •natural disasters and public health emergencies; •laws of some foreign countries, which may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States; and •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, which may be costly and require time to implement. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could materially affect our reported results. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, as a portion of our sales and certain portions of our costs, assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Approximately 45.3% of our sales during the year ended December 31, 2008 were from sales outside of the U.S. compared to 41.7% for the year ended December 31, 2007. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the appreciation of the euro against the U.S. dollar had a positive impact on sales of approximately $31.3 million and $34.1 million, respectively. There were also minor impacts on sales in other European currencies such as the pound sterling and Danish krone against the U.S. dollar. Additionally, our Canadian operations require significant amounts of U.S. purchases for their operations. Instead of buying or manufacturing domestically, we currently have a favorable cost structure for certain goods we source from our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China and our outside vendors. In 2005, China revalued its currency higher against the U.S. dollar and stated it would no longer tie the yuan to a fixed rate against the U.S. currency. The yuan was valued at 6.8 and 7.3 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. China also stated it will peg the yuan against numerous currencies, although it will keep the yuan in a tight band rather than letting it trade freely. The spot rate of the euro and Canadian dollar decreased in value and the yuan increased in value from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008 by approximately 19%, 5% and 6% respectively, against the U.S. dollar. If our share of revenue and purchases in non-dollar denominated currencies continues to increase in future periods, exchange rate fluctuations will likely have a greater impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Our ability to achieve savings through our restructuring plans may be impacted by local regulations or factors beyond the control of management. We implemented restructuring plans in 2007 and in 2009. Management's plans include a number of steps that we believe are necessary to reduce operating costs and increase efficiencies throughout our manufacturing footprint. Although we have considered the impact of local regulations, negotiations with employee representatives, the timing of capital expenditures necessary to prepare facilities and the related costs associated with these activities, factors beyond the control of management may impact the timing and therefore impact when the savings will be achieved under the plans. Further, if we are not successful in completing the restructuring projects in the time frames contemplated or if additional issues arise during the projects that add costs or disrupt customer service, then our operating results could be negatively affected. If we cannot continue operating our manufacturing facilities at current or higher utilization levels, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The equipment and management systems necessary for the operation of our manufacturing facilities may break down, perform poorly or fail, resulting in fluctuations in our ability to manufacture our products and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. We operate a number of manufacturing facilities, all of which are subject to this risk, and such fluctuations at any of these facilities could cause an increase in our production costs and a corresponding decrease in our profitability. We also have a vertically-integrated manufacturing process. Each segment is dependent upon the prior process and any breakdown in one segment will adversely affect all later components. Fluctuations in our production process may affect our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. Our inability to meet our delivery obligations could result in a loss of our customers and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have an ongoing manufacturing restructuring program to reduce our manufacturing costs. If our planned manufacturing plant consolidations in the United States, Europe and China are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we continue to experience declines in demand, we will further reduce our production levels, resulting in lower capacity utilization that could negatively impact our results of operations. In response to the current recessionary pressures and reduced order volumes, we have decreased our production levels to conserve cash. If we continue to experience declines in orders from customers, we will take further steps to reduce our production levels to avoid building inventory and increasing our working capital levels. While this step helps to preserve cash, a large amount of our production costs are fixed and therefore will negatively impact our ability to absorb these costs, resulting in lower gross margins for the products manufactured. Although we are expecting a certain level of decreased production volume in 2009, there can be no assurances that additional steps will not be required to reduce these levels further thereby decreasing our results from operations. If we experience delays in introducing new products or if our existing or new products do not achieve or maintain market acceptance and regulatory approvals, our revenues and our profitability may decrease. Our failure to develop new and innovative products or to custom design existing products could result in the loss of existing customers to competitors or the inability to attract new business, either of which may adversely affect our revenues. Our industry is characterized by: •intense competition; •changes in specifications required by our customers, plumbing codes and/or regulatory agencies; •changes in requirements under new legislation; 18 •technically complex products; and •constant improvement to existing products and introductions of new products. We believe our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these factors and to offer, on a timely basis, products that meet customer demands and the requirements of plumbing codes and/or regulatory agencies. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the anticipation of technological and market trends. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties, such as an inability to attract a sufficient number of experienced engineers, that could delay or prevent our development, introduction, approval or marketing of new products or enhancements and result in unexpected expenses. Such difficulties could cause us to lose business from our customers and could adversely affect our competitive position; in addition, added expenses could decrease the profitability associated with those products that do not gain market acceptance. Additionally, we recently developed lead free versions of many of our plumbing products to comply with new lead content standards going into effect in California and Vermont. If our lead free products fail to comply with these new standards or if we encounter difficulties in the manufacturing processes for these products, we could lose a substantial amount of business from customers in California and Vermont and any other states that adopt similar standards in the future. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could increase our expenses or reduce our profitability. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and disposal and workplace safety. Such laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We could be required to halt one or more portions of our operations until a violation is cured. We could also be liable for the costs of property damage or personal injury to others. Although we attempt to operate in compliance with these environmental laws, we may not succeed in this effort at all times. The costs of curing violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by government authorities could be substantial. Under certain environmental laws, the current and past owners or operators of real property may be liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination, even if they did not know of or were not responsible for such contamination. These laws also impose liability on any person who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous waste at any site. We have been named as a potentially responsible party or are otherwise conducting remedial activities with respect to a limited number of identified contaminated sites, including sites we currently own or operate. There can be no assurances that our ownership and operation of real property and our disposal of waste will not lead to other liabilities under these laws. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs relating to environmental matters. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur additional costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could be significant. Environmental litigation, enforcement and compliance are inherently uncertain and we may experience significant costs in connection with environmental matters. For more information, see "Item 1. Business—Product Liability, Environmental and Other Litigation Matters." Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may expend resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We may be required to spend resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. If we fail to 19 successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We have been limited from selling products from time-to-time because of existing patents. The requirements of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (FAS 142) may result in a write-off of all or a portion of our goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets, which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, we recorded goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets of $431.3 million and $62.0 million, respectively. In lieu of amortization, we are required to perform an annual impairment review of both goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets. In 2008, in performing our annual goodwill review, we recognized a non-cash pre-tax charge of approximately $22.0 million as an impairment of all the goodwill value related to one reporting unit. Although we did not experience goodwill impairment in our remaining reporting units, there can be no assurances that future goodwill impairment will not occur. We perform our annual test for indications of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets impairment in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or sooner if indicators of impairment exist. The loss or financial instability of a major customer could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2008, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 20% of our total net sales with no one customer accounting for more than approximately 5% of our total net sales. Our customers generally are not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and are able to terminate their relationships with us at any time. In addition, increases in the prices of our products could result in a reduction in orders for our customers. A significant reduction in orders from, or change in terms of contracts with, any significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Furthermore, some of our major customers are facing financial challenges due to market declines and heavy debt levels; should these challenges become acute, our results could be materially adversely affected due to reduced orders and/or payment delays or defaults. Certain indebtedness may limit our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt and make acquisitions and other investments. Our revolving credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain operational and financial covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders, incur additional debt and make acquisitions and other investments unless we satisfy certain financial tests and comply with various financial ratios. If we do not maintain compliance with these covenants, our creditors could declare a default under our revolving credit facility or senior notes and our indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with the provisions of our indebtedness may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions beyond our control. Further, given the current condition of the credit markets, should we require additional debt financing above our existing credit limit, we cannot be assured such financing would be available to us or available to us on reasonable economic terms. Investments in auction rate securities and rights issued by UBS are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2008, we held $6.0 million in auction rate securities (ARS) at fair value whose underlying investments are AA rated municipal bonds and student loans and $2.3 million in rights issued by UBS, AG (UBS). All of our ARS were sold by UBS. In the fourth quarter of 2008, UBS issued a settlement offer to the holder of certain ARS including all of the securities held by us. Under the terms of the settlement offer, UBS issued non-transferable rights entitling the holder to sell the underlying ARS at par to UBS at any time during the period June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012, after which time the rights expire. UBS could elect at any time from the settlement through the expiration of the settlement agreement to purchase the ARS, in which case UBS would be required to pay par value 20 for the ARS. The value of the ARS and the related rights from UBS are subject to the credit risk of the underlying agencies which originally issued the bonds as well as the credit risk of UBS. If UBS is unable to perform under the terms of the rights agreements, we could incur losses to liquidate the remaining securities or hold the securities to maturity. One of our stockholders can exercise substantial influence over our Company. As of February 1, 2009, Timothy P. Horne, a member of our board of directors, beneficially owned approximately 19.8% of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock (assuming conversion of all shares of Class B Common Stock beneficially owned by Mr. Horne into Class A Common Stock) and approximately 99.0% of our outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, which represents approximately 70.7% of the total outstanding voting power. As long as Mr. Horne controls shares representing at least a majority of the total voting power of our outstanding stock, Mr. Horne will be able to unilaterally determine the outcome of most stockholder votes, and other stockholders will not be able to affect the outcome of any such votes. Conversion and sale of a significant number of shares of our Class B Common Stock could adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. As of February 1, 2009, there were outstanding 29,251,739 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 7,293,880 shares of our Class B Common Stock. Shares of our Class B Common Stock may be converted into Class A Common Stock at any time on a one for one basis. Under the terms of a registration rights agreement with respect to outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock, the holders of our Class B Common Stock have rights with respect to the registration of the underlying Class A Common Stock. Under these registration rights, the holders of Class B Common Stock may require, on up to two occasions, that we register their shares for public resale. If we are eligible to use Form S-3 or a similar short-form registration statement, the holders of Class B Common Stock may require that we register their shares for public resale up to two times per year. If we elect to register any shares of Class A Common Stock for any public offering, the holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to include shares of Class A Common Stock into which such shares of Class B Common Stock may be converted in such registration. However, we may reduce the number of shares proposed to be registered in view of market conditions. We will pay all expenses in connection with any registration, other than underwriting discounts and commissions. If all of the available registered shares are sold into the public market the trading price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. Our Class A Common Stock has insignificant voting power. Our Class B Common Stock entitles its holders to ten votes for each share and our Class A Common Stock entitles its holders to one vote per share. As of February 1, 2009, our Class B Common Stock constituted 20.0% of our total outstanding common stock and 71.4% of the total outstanding voting power and thus is able to exercise a controlling influence over our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 21 