Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in continually changing business environments and new risk factors may emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on our business or to the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statement. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we might currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. We operate multiple businesses. When we refer to “surgical products” or the “surgical products business”, we are referring to the business that produces, markets and sells wound closure products, disposable medical devices used for vascular access, specialty needles, and other surgical related products. When we refer to “brachytherapy” or the “brachytherapy business”, we are referring to the business that produces, markets and sells TheraSeed®, our premier palladium-103 prostate cancer treatment device, I-Seed, our iodine-125 based prostate cancer treatment device, and related products and services. Risks Related to our Business There are risks associated with our acquisitions, potential acquisitions and joint ventures. An important element of our strategy is to seek acquisition prospects and diversification opportunities that we believe will complement or diversify our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage and customer base, enhance our technological capabilities or offer revenue and profit growth opportunities. We acquired CP Medical in May 2005, Galt in August 2006 and NeedleTech in July 2008. Further transactions of this nature could result in potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities, use of cash and/or the incurring of debt and the assumption of contingent liabilities. Acquisitions entail numerous costs, challenges and risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies, personnel and products and the retention of existing customers and strategic partners, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. Other risks include the potential strain on the combined companies’ financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures, greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to integration, and potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired entities. No assurance can be given as to our ability to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel acquired in past acquisitions or those of other entities that may be acquired in the future or to successfully develop any products or technologies that might be contemplated by any future joint venture or similar arrangement. A failure to integrate CP Medical, Galt, NeedleTech or future potential acquisitions could result in our failure to achieve our revenue growth or other objectives associated with acquisitions, or recover costs associated with these acquisitions, which could affect our profitability or cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We may not realize the benefits of acquisitions. The process of integrating our acquisitions may be complex, time consuming and expensive and may disrupt our businesses, and could affect our financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. We will need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize benefits or synergies from the acquisitions. These challenges include the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including: • integrating the operations and technologies of the acquired companies; • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; • retaining existing customers of each company and attracting additional customers; • retaining strategic partners of each company and attracting new strategic partners; and • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems. I-11 The execution of these post-acquisition events will involve considerable risks and may not be successful. These risks include: • the potential disruption of the combined companies’ ongoing businesses and distraction of management; • the potential strain on the combined companies’ financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; and • the potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquisition and the combined operations. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisitions. The inability to successfully integrate the operations, technology and personnel of acquired companies, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on us. The cost of acquisitions could harm our financial results. If the benefits of acquisitions do not exceed the associated costs, including costs related to integrating the companies acquired and dilution to our stockholders resulting from the issuance of shares in connection with the acquisitions, our financial results, including earnings per share, could be materially harmed. We are dependent on key personnel. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and technical personnel. Therefore, our future success is dependent on our key employees. If the services of our chief executive or other key employees cease to be available, the loss could adversely affect our business and financial results. We carry key employee insurance for M. Christine Jacobs, our Chief Executive Officer, in the amount of $1 million. Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, new products or acquisitions by us or our competitors, developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, general conditions in the medical device and surgical products industries, or other events or factors. In addition, the stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which can particularly affect the market prices of technology companies and which can be unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Average daily trading volume in our Common Stock is not significant and can cause significant price fluctuations. Specific factors applicable to broad market fluctuations or us may materially adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our stock price and share trading volume in the past and may continue to do so. We may be unable to maintain the minimum continued listing standards for the New York Stock Exchange. Our common stock is currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The continued listing standards of the NYSE require, among other things, a listed company to maintain shareholders’ equity of at least $75 million if the company’s average market capitalization over a consecutive 30-day trading period is less than $75 million. The impairment charges and resulting net loss reported for 2008 reduced our shareholders’ equity to $74.1 million as of December 31, 2008, and our market capitalization has been below $75 million for 30 trading days as of the date of this report. Accordingly, we anticipate receiving notification from the NYSE that we are not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards. Under applicable NYSE procedures, we will have 45 days from the receipt of such notice to submit a cure plan to the NYSE. This plan must demonstrate our ability to achieve compliance with the continued listing standards within the next 18 months. If the NYSE notifies us that we are not in compliance, we plan to submit a cure plan to return to compliance with the listing standard related to maintaining shareholders’ equity of at least $75 million within the required timeframe. In addition, the NYSE requires listed companies to maintain an average closing price of $1.00 per share and a minimum market capitalization of $25 million. The NYSE has proposed to temporarily suspend the minimum price criteria and to reduce the market capitalization floor to $15 million through June 30, 2009, subject to SEC approval. While SEC approval is anticipated, we cannot assure you that the SEC will approve the temporary suspension or that this relief will be extended beyond June 30, 2009. Upon receipt of a notice that a company’s average per share closing price does not meet the minimum threshold, a company has six months to cure the deficiency before the NYSE will initiate suspension and delisting procedures. The NYSE may initiate suspension and delisting proceedings when a company’s 30-trading day market capitalization is less than $25 million (or $15 million through June 30, 2009) without providing a cure period. I-12 If we are unable to maintain compliance with all of the applicable NYSE continued listing standards, and unable to cure any such defaults within NYSE prescribed cure periods, our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE. A delisting of our common stock on the NYSE will likely reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which would negatively impact our ability to access the public capital markets. A delisting would also increase the costs and burdens associated with issuing securities, including under existing equity incentive plans. If we are delisted from the NYSE, we may be unable to obtain a listing for our common stock on an alternative exchange due to the minimum listing standards of other exchanges, differing corporate governance or other regulatory requirements, prohibitive costs, or other circumstances. Common stocks of publicly held companies that are not listed on a stock exchange will likely be traded in the “over the counter” (OTC) market. Trading of common stock on the OTC market is subject to less regulation than trading on a stock exchange, and may result in greater volatility in stock price. Additionally, securities traded in the OTC market generally have less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, due to factors such as a reduction in the number of investors that may consider investing in the securities, the number of market makers in the securities, reduction in news media coverage, and lower market prices than may otherwise be obtained. As a result, if our common stock is delisted from the NYSE, holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to resell their shares and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We face production risks. We operate four primary production facilities, each of which manufactures unique products. If an event occurred that resulted in damage to one or more of our production facilities, we may be unable to produce the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. Due to the FDA’s and other stringent regulations regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish replacement sources for certain component materials. Any interruption in manufacturing, or in the ability to obtain raw materials and component supplies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our manufacturing process in the brachytherapy business requires, among other things, the use of cyclotrons, which are used to manufacture Pd-103 for our brachytherapy seed products. Cyclotron capacity and performance directly affect our ability to support sales levels. Due to the intricate nature of cyclotrons and our exacting specifications for their performance, planned downtime for maintenance and repair is crucial and unexpected downtime may occur. Unexpected mechanical breakdowns or other production delays could materially adversely affect our production capacity and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing or quality control problems may arise in any of our businesses as we increase production or as additional manufacturing capacity is required in the future. These factors may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Surgical product components are obtained from suppliers located in the United States, as well as in Latin America, Europe, and Asia. While we believe there is adequate access to alternative suppliers, any disruption in supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to stringent government regulation. The manufacture and sale of our medical devices are subject to stringent government regulation in the United States and other countries. Our medical devices have required 510(k) clearances by the FDA for commercial distribution in the United States. FDA and other governmental approvals and clearances are subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems could result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market. The commercial distribution in the United States of new medical devices developed by us often will be dependent on obtaining the prior approval or clearance of the FDA, which can take many years to obtain and entail significant costs. No assurances can be made that any such approvals or clearances will be obtained on a timely basis or at all. In countries in which our medical devices are not approved, the use or sale of such medical devices will require approvals by government agencies comparable to the FDA. The process of obtaining such approvals can be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. There can be no assurance that the necessary approvals for the marketing of our products in other markets will be obtained on a timely basis or at all. We are also required to comply with applicable FDA regulations for Quality System Regulation (“QSR”), including extensive record keeping, reporting and periodic inspections of our manufacturing facilities. Similar requirements are imposed by governmental agencies in other countries. A new 510(k) clearance is required for any modifications to previously approved medical devices or their labeling that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the original products. Under the FDA’s regulatory scheme, the decision whether to seek 510(k) clearance for a modified device is left to the manufacturer in the first instance, and we have thus far determined that no such clearance has been required. The FDA has the right to review and revoke 510(k) clearance at any time. The FDA may determine that a pre-market approval, whereby the FDA conducts a scientific and regulatory review of a Class III scientific device for safety and effectiveness, may be required for future products or for future modifications to our existing medical devices. I-13 Certain of our medical devices have also been approved for marketing throughout the member countries of the European Union by obtaining appropriate CE Marks. As a result of receiving CE Marks, we must also comply with the regulations of the Competent Authorities of the European Union for any such devices sold in the member nations of the European Union. Our brachytherapy manufacturing operations involve the manufacturing and possession of radioactive materials, which are subject to stringent regulation. The users of our brachytherapy seed products are required to possess licenses issued by the states in which they reside or the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”). User licenses are also required by some of the foreign jurisdictions in which we may seek to market our products. There can be no assurance that current licenses held by us for our manufacturing operations will remain in force or that additional licenses required for our operations will be issued. There also can be no assurance that our customers will receive or retain the radioactive materials licenses required to possess and use TheraSeed® or I-Seed or that delays in the granting of such licenses will not hinder our ability to market our products. Furthermore, regulation of our radioactive materials manufacturing processes involves the imposition of financial requirements related to public safety and decommissioning, and there are costs and regulatory uncertainties associated with the disposal of radioactive waste generated by our manufacturing operations. There can be no assurance that the imposition of such requirements and the costs and regulatory restrictions associated with disposal of waste will not, in the future, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required under our radioactive materials license to maintain radiation control and radiation safety personnel, procedures, equipment and processes, and to monitor our facilities and our employees and contractors. We are also required to provide financial assurance that adequate funding will exist for end-of-life radiological decommissioning of our cyclotrons and other radioactive areas of our properties that contain radioactive materials. We have provided this financial assurance through the issuance of letters of credit. We have so far been successful in explaining to the Georgia Department of Natural Resources that we will not have to dispose of our cyclotrons, but instead will be able to sell them for re-use or use for spare parts if we cease to operate them. Thus, we are only required to estimate and provide financial assurance for the end-of-life remediation and disposal costs associated with ancillary structures, such as plumbing, laboratory equipment and chemical processing facilities. However, if the Georgia Department of Natural Resources was to require that we include the cost of decommissioning our cyclotrons in our financial assurance demonstration, the amount of funds required to be set aside by us to cover decommissioning costs could dramatically increase. Failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, licenses and permits could significantly delay our marketing efforts. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations, or interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new restrictive regulations could adversely affect us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions or criminal prosecution and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risk related to lack of diversification. Through April 2005, virtually all of our revenues were generated from the brachytherapy seed market. The growth of our surgical products business has reduced our dependence on the brachytherapy business. However, there is no assurance that we can continue to successfully diversify our business, and a lack of diversification or over reliance on any one of our businesses can be a risk. We are dependent on new technological development. We compete in markets characterized by technological innovation, extensive research efforts and significant competition. New developments in technology may have a material adverse effect on the development or sale of our products and may render such products noncompetitive or obsolete. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater capital resources, marketing experience, research and development staffs and facilities than us, are currently engaged in the development of products and innovative methods for treating cancer, and for competing with our wound closure, vascular access and specialty needle products. Significant developments by any of these companies or advances by medical researchers at universities, government research facilities or private research laboratories could eliminate the entire market for any or all of our products. I-14 We face significant competition. Our surgical products business competes with other suppliers of wound closure, vascular access and specialty needle products. The primary suppliers include Angiodynamics, Angiotech Pharmaceuticals, Covidien Ltd., Boston Scientific, Cook Medical, Inc., C.R. Bard, Inc., Greatbatch, Inc., Hart Enterprises, Cordis and Ethicon, Inc. (subsidiaries of Johnson and Johnson), Merit Medical, Needle Specialty Products, Terumo Medical and Tegra Medical. Our brachytherapy business is also subject to intense competition within the brachytherapy seed market. C.R. Bard, Inc., Best Medical and Best Theratronics, Ltd., Oncura (a part of GE Healthcare), Core Oncology and others all manufacture and/or sell Pd-103 and/or I-125 brachytherapy seeds. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base, than we do. Additionally, many companies located outside of the United States, in particular in Asia, produce and supply similar surgical products. These companies may have access to substantially lower costs of production. Accordingly, such competitors or future competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than us. As a result, we may be at a disadvantage when competing with these larger companies. If we fail to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We face pricing pressures. Our businesses are subject to intense pressure to lower pricing as our customers are leveraging current economic conditions to demand reduced pricing or more favorable payment discounts. Accordingly, we could find it difficult to offset discounts with in-house cost savings measures. Failure to offer satisfactory savings to our customers or to successfully reduce our costs may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We are highly dependent on our marketing and advertising specialists and our direct sales organization in the brachytherapy business. Any failure to build and manage our direct sales organization could negatively affect our revenues. We are highly dependent on our direct sales organization comprised of brachytherapy specialists who promote and support our brachytherapy products. There is intense competition for skilled sales and marketing employees, particularly for people who have experience in the radiation oncology market. Accordingly, we could find it difficult to hire or retain skilled individuals to sell our products. Failure to retain our direct sales force could adversely affect our growth and our ability to meet our revenue goals. There can be no assurance that our direct sales and marketing efforts will be successful. If we are not successful in our direct sales and marketing, our sales revenue and results of operations are likely to be materially adversely affected. We depend partially on our relationships with distributors and other industry participants to market our surgical and brachytherapy products, and if these relationships are discontinued or if we are unable to develop new relationships, our revenues could decline. A significant portion of our surgical products revenue is derived from our relationships with OEMs, dealers and distributors. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or develop these relationships with OEMs, agents and distributors and other industry participants or that these relationships will continue to be successful. If any of these relationships is terminated, not renewed or otherwise unsuccessful, or if we are unable to develop additional relationships, our product sales could decline, and our ability to grow our product lines could be adversely affected. We rely, and will continue to rely, upon collaborative relationships with agents and distributors and other industry participants to maintain market access to potential customers. Some of the entities with which we have relationships to help market and distribute our products also produce or distribute products that directly compete with our products. In particular, C.R. Bard, Inc. (“Bard”), one of our primary competitors, is also a distributor of our TheraSeed® product. Sales to Bard represented 51% of brachytherapy product revenue in 2008. The terms of our distribution agreement with Bard provide for automatic one-year extensions of the term, unless either party gives notice of its intent not to renew at least twelve months prior to the end of the current term. The current term expires on December 31, 2010, and will be automatically extended for one additional year unless either party gives notice of its intent not to extend by December 31, 2009. There is no assurance that this distribution agreement will be extended and if it is not, how much unit volume being sold through Bard will be able to be captured by our direct sales force or other distributors that we may utilize. I-15 Doctors and hospitals may not adopt our products and technologies at levels sufficient to sustain our business or to achieve our desired growth rate. To date, we have attained only limited penetration of the total potential market for most of our products. Our future growth and success depends upon creating broad awareness and acceptance of our products by doctors, hospitals and freestanding clinics, as well as patients. This will require substantial marketing and educational efforts, which will be costly and may not be successful. The target customers for our products may not adopt these technologies or may adopt them at a rate that is slower than desired. In addition, potential customers who decide to utilize any of our devices may later choose to purchase competitors’ products. Important factors that will affect our ability to attain broad market acceptance of our products include: • doctor and/or patient awareness and acceptance of our products; • the real or perceived effectiveness and safety of our products; • the relationship between the cost of our products and the real or perceived medical benefits of our products; • the relationship between the cost of our products and the financial benefits to our customers using our products, which will be greatly affected by the coverage of, and reimbursement for, our products by governmental and private third-party payors; and • market perception of our ability to continue to grow our business and develop enhanced products. Failure of our products to gain broad market acceptance could cause our revenues to decline and our business to suffer. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NYSE rules are creating uncertainty for public companies, and are particularly burdensome for smaller public companies such as ours. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur relating to regulatory developments or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we have invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. There are limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property, and we are dependent on trade secrets. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain, assert and defend patent rights, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We hold rights to issued United States and foreign patents. There can be no assurance that rights under patents held by or licensed to us will provide us with competitive advantages that others will not independently develop similar products or design around or infringe the patents or other proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patent obtained or licensed by us will be held to be valid and enforceable if challenged by another party. I-16 There can be no assurance that patents have not been issued or will not be issued in the future that conflict with our patent rights or prevent us from marketing our products. Such conflicts could result in a rejection of our or our licensors’ patent applications or the invalidation of patents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of such conflicts, or in the event we believe that competitive products infringe patents to which we hold rights, we may pursue patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings against, or may be required to defend against litigation or proceedings involving, holders of such conflicting patents or competing products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in any such litigation or proceeding, and the results and cost of such litigation or proceeding may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if patents that contain dominating or conflicting claims have been or are subsequently issued to others and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of others. No assurance can be given that any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights would be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is foreclosed. We rely to a significant degree on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that are either not patentable or that we choose not to patent. We seek to protect non-patented proprietary information, in part, by confidentiality agreements with suppliers, employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. The disclosure to third parties of proprietary non-patented information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our devices. Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians, which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. For example, in an effort to decrease costs, certain hospitals and other customers sometimes resterilize products otherwise intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for these procedures, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. These outcomes, along with cost containment measures, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, Medicare covers a substantial percentage of the patients treated for prostate cancer in the United States, and consequently, the costs for prostate cancer treatment are subject to Medicare’s prescribed rates of reimbursement. The utilization of TheraSeed®, I-Seed and many of the products in our surgical products business may be influenced by Medicare’s reimbursement levels, and the policies of other third party payors, which can change periodically. Unfavorable reimbursement levels and confusion regarding potential changes in Medicare have adversely affected sales of our brachytherapy products in the past, and could do so in the future. I-17 We believe that the brachytherapy industry continues to be affected by competition from alternate therapies, declining prices for I-125 and Pd-103 seeds, competitors’ selling tactics and the effects of consolidation in the industry. Theragenics’ brachytherapy business also continues to be affected by our non-exclusive distributors. Medicare reimbursement policies have affected the brachytherapy market and can also continue to affect the brachytherapy market. On July 15, 2008, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (the “2008 Act”) was enacted into law. The 2008 Act extends Medicare’s longstanding “pass through” reimbursement policies for brachytherapy seeds administered in the hospital outpatient setting through December 31, 2009, ensuring that the Medicare program does not implement potentially restrictive caps on reimbursement during this period, (see “Medicare Developments” included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” below). The potential for fixed reimbursement rates after the expiration of the 2008 Act on December 31, 2009 and other factors can be expected to lead to continued pricing pressure from hospitals and other health care providers. Accordingly, we and/or our non-exclusive distributors may continue to change our respective pricing policies for the TheraSeed® device and we may change our pricing policy with respect to I-Seed in order to take advantage of market opportunities or respond to competitive situations. Responding to market opportunities and competitive situations could have an adverse effect on average selling prices. Responding to market opportunities and competitive situations could also have a favorable effect or prevent an unfavorable effect on market share and volumes. Conversely, we or our non-exclusive distributors could individually and independently decide to maintain per unit pricing under certain competitive situations that could adversely affect current or potential market share and volumes. There can be no assurance (i) that current or future limitations or requirements for reimbursement by Medicare or other third party payors for prostate cancer treatment will not materially adversely affect the market for our brachytherapy or other products, (ii) that health administration authorities outside of the United States will provide reimbursement at acceptable levels, if at all or (iii) that any such reimbursement will be continued at rates that will enable us to maintain prices at levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on brachytherapy revenue. We may be unable to maintain sufficient liability insurance. Our business is subject to product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. We maintain liability policies with limits of $25 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. Our product liability and general liability policies are provided on a claims-made basis and are subject to annual renewal. There can be no assurance that liability claims will not exceed the scope of coverage or limits of such policies or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we do not or cannot maintain sufficient liability insurance, our ability to market our products may be significantly impaired. In addition, product liability claims, as well as negative publicity arising out of such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not comply with laws and regulations relating to our use of hazardous materials, we may incur substantial liabilities. We use hazardous materials and chemicals in our manufacturing operations. We are required to comply with increasingly rigorous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety, including requirements governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and the discharge of materials into the environment generally. Although, we believe that we handle, store and dispose of these materials in a manner that complies with state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury exists. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for decontamination costs, other clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities. To help minimize these risks, we employ a full-time Environmental Health and Safety Officer and, when appropriate, we utilize outside professional services organizations to help us evaluate environmental regulations and monitor our compliance with such regulations. In addition, we procure insurance specifically designed to mitigate environmental liability exposures. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management, and could result in significant monetary or equitable judgments against us. For example, lawsuits by employees, patients, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, business partners, distributors, stockholders, or competitors could be very costly and could substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. I-18 Defects in, or misuse of, our products, or any detrimental side effects that result from the use of our products, could result in serious injury or death and could require costly recalls or subject us to costly and time-consuming product liability claims. This could harm future sales and require us to pay substantial damages. TheraSeed® and I-Seed deliver a highly concentrated and confined dose of radiation directly to the prostate from within the patient’s body. Surrounding tissues and organs are typically spared excessive radiation exposure. Our wound closure, vascular access and specialty needle products are also utilized directly on patients. It is an inherent risk of the industries in which we operate that we might be sued in a situation where one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, a personal injury to a patient, health care provider, or other user. Although we believe that as of the current date we have adequate insurance to address anticipated potential liabilities associated with product liability, any unforeseen product liability exposure in excess of, or outside the scope of, such insurance coverage could adversely affect our operating results. Any such claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in significant damage to our business. The FDA’s medical device reporting regulations require us to report any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our products malfunctioned in a way that would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction reoccurred. Any required filing could result in an investigation of our products and possibly subsequent regulatory action against us if it is found that one of our products caused the death or serious injury of a patient. Because of the nature of our products, the tolerance for error in the design, manufacture or use of our products may be small or nonexistent. If a product designed or manufactured by us is defective, whether due to design or manufacturing defects, or improper assembly, use or servicing of the product or other reasons, the product may need to be recalled, possibly at our expense. Furthermore, the adverse effect of a product recall might not be limited to the cost of the recall. For example, a product recall could cause applicable regulatory authorities to investigate us as well as cause our customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. Recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts, could cause us to suffer substantial costs, lost revenues and a loss of reputation, each of which could harm our business. Products as complex as our planning and dose calculation software systems may also contain undetected software errors or defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects even after they have been tested, which could result in the rejection of our products by our customers and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased support costs. We may also be subject to claims for damages related to any errors in our products. Although a number of the surgical products are Class II devices subject to certain special controls by the FDA, many of the products are Class I devices, meaning that the FDA considers these products to present minimal potential for harm to the user. Nonetheless, if there is an error in the design, manufacture or use of any of these products, there remains a risk of recall, rejection of our product by our customers, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development of resources and increased support costs. We may also be subject to claims for damages related to any error in such products. We may require additional capital in the future and we may be unable to obtain capital on favorable terms or at all. Although we expect our existing capital resources and future operating cash flows to be sufficient for the foreseeable future, certain events, such as operating losses or unavailability of credit could significantly reduce our remaining cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Furthermore, we may require additional capital for research and development, the purchase of other businesses, technologies or products. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the time and cost involved in expanding production capacity, the cost involved in protecting our proprietary rights and the time and expense involved in completing product development programs. We have a Credit Agreement with a financial institution that expires October 31, 2009 and provides for revolving borrowings of up to $40.0 million, including a $5.0 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is subject to early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default. In addition, the lender may decide to not extend this Credit Agreement at the expiration of the term. Finally, the Credit Agreement is unsecured and includes a springing lien on substantially all of the assets of the Company and our subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions) in the event certain events of default occur under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains representations and warranties, as well as affirmative, reporting and negative covenants, customary for financings of this type. In the event the Credit Agreement terminates early or is not extended, we will not have access to future borrowings in order to fund our capital requirements unless we can find new financing. In addition, the terms of our Credit Agreement require us to maintain a minimum of $20 million of liquid assets, as defined in the Credit Agreement. No assurances are made regarding whether such refinancing can be arranged. Any new or replacement facility will likely be under terms that are not as favorable as the current credit facility. The negative impact of recent and continuing adverse changes in the economy and credit markets generally or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. I-19 If we are unable to develop new enhancements and new generations, we may be unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. Rapid and significant technological change in products offered as well as enhancements to existing products and surgical techniques coupled with evolving industry standards and new product introductions characterize the market for our brachytherapy, wound closure, vascular access, and specialty needle products. Many of our brachytherapy and surgical products are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing. These activities require significant capital commitments and investment. If we are unable to raise needed capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to maintain our competitive advantage in the marketplace. New product developments in the healthcare industry are inherently risky and unpredictable. These risks include: • failure to prove feasibility; • time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; • timing and cost of product development and regulatory approvals and clearances; • competitors’ response to new product developments; • development, launch, manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance cost overruns; • failure to obtain customer acceptance and payment; • customer demands for retrofits of both old and new products; and • excess inventory caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products. The high cost of technological innovation is coupled with rapid and significant change in the regulations governing the products that compete in both our surgical products and brachytherapy markets. We may also be affected by industry standards that could change on short notice, and by the introduction of new products and technologies that could render existing products and technologies uncompetitive. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhancements to our existing brachytherapy products and innovative surgical products. Without new product introductions, our revenues will likely suffer. Even if customers accept new enhanced products, the costs associated with making these products available to customers, as well as our ability to obtain capital to finance such costs, could reduce or prevent us from increasing our operating margins. Our cash balances and marketable securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2008, we had $39.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1.5 million of investments in marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents represent cash deposits and money market funds, and are invested with five financial institutions. Our marketable securities primarily represent investments in high-credit quality corporate and municipal obligations, in accordance with our investment policies. All of these cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, interest rate and counterparty risks, which may be exacerbated by the disruptions and volatility in the current economic climate, lack of liquidity in the credit and investment markets, severe economic difficulties being encountered by many financial institutions and other economic uncertainties that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We face unknown and unpredictable risks related to the current economic instability. Financial markets and the economies in the United States and internationally have experienced extreme disruption and volatility and conditions could worsen. This has resulted in severely diminished liquidity and credit availability in the market, which could impair our ability to access capital or adversely affect our operations. The economic downturn may also, among other things: · create downward pressure on the pricing of our products; · affect the collection of accounts receivable; · increase the sales cycle for certain of our products; · slow the adoption of new products and technologies; · adversely affect our customers, causing them to reduce spending; · adversely affect our suppliers, which could adversely affect our ability to produce our products. Any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. I-20 Item 