Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in continually changing business environments and new risk factors may emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on our business or to the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statement. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we might currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. We operate multiple businesses. When we refer to “surgical products” or the “surgical products business”, we are referring to the business that produces, markets and sells wound closure products, disposable medical devices used for vascular access, specialty needles, and other surgical related products. When we refer to “brachytherapy” or the “brachytherapy business”, we are referring to the business that produces, markets and sells medical devices used primarily in the treatment of early stage prostate cancer and related products and services. Risks Related to our Business There are risks associated with our acquisitions, potential acquisitions and joint ventures. An important element of our strategy is to seek acquisition prospects and diversification opportunities (including companies, product lines and intellectual property) that we believe will complement or diversify our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage and customer base, enhance our technological capabilities or offer revenue and profit growth opportunities. We acquired CP Medical Corp. in May 2005, Galt Medical Corporation in August 2006 and NeedleTech Products, Inc. in July 2008. We acquired Core Oncology’s prostate brachytherapy customers in February 2012. Further transactions of this nature could result in potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities, use of cash and/or the incurrence of debt and the assumption of contingent liabilities. Acquisitions entail numerous costs, challenges and risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies, personnel and products and the retention of existing customers and strategic partners, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. Other risks include the potential strain on the combined companies’ financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures, greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to integration, and potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired entities. No assurance can be given as to our ability to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel acquired in past acquisitions or those of other entities that may be acquired in the future or to successfully develop any products or technologies that might be contemplated by any future joint venture or similar arrangement. A failure to integrate potential acquisitions could result in our failure to achieve our revenue growth or other objectives associated with acquisitions, or recover costs associated with these acquisitions, which could affect our profitability or cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We may not realize the benefits of acquisitions. The process of integrating our acquisitions may be complex, time consuming and expensive and may disrupt our businesses, and could affect our financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. We will need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize benefits or synergies from the acquisitions. These challenges include the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including: ● integrating the operations and technologies of the acquired companies; ● retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; ● retaining existing customers of each company and attracting additional customers; ● retaining strategic partners of each company and attracting new strategic partners; and ● creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems. The execution of these post-acquisition events will involve considerable risks and may not be successful. These risks include: ● the potential disruption of the combined companies’ ongoing businesses and distraction of management; ● the potential strain on the combined companies’ financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; and ● the potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquisition and the combined operations. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisitions. The inability to successfully integrate the operations, technology and personnel of acquired companies, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on us. I-12 The cost of acquisitions could harm our financial results. If the benefits of acquisitions do not exceed the associated costs, including costs related to integrating the companies acquired and dilution to our stockholders resulting from the issuance of shares in connection with the acquisitions, our financial results, including earnings per share, could be materially harmed. We are dependent on key personnel. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and technical personnel. Therefore, our future success is dependent on our key employees. If the services of our chief executive or other key employees cease to be available, the loss could adversely affect our business and financial results. We carry key employee insurance for M. Christine Jacobs, our Chief Executive Officer. Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, new products or acquisitions by us or our competitors, developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, changes in our customer base, general conditions in the medical device and surgical products industries, or other events or factors. In addition, the stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which can particularly affect the market prices of smaller companies and which can be unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Average daily trading volume in our Common Stock is not significant and can cause significant price fluctuations. Specific factors applicable to broad market fluctuations or to us may materially adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our stock price and share trading volume in the past and may continue to do so. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. Comparisons of our quarterly operating results are an unreliable indication of our future performance because they are likely to vary significantly based on many factors, including: ■ the size and timing of orders from our customers; ■ the demand for and acceptance of our products; ■ the success of our competition; ■ our ability to command favorable pricing for our products; ■ the growth of the market for our devices; ■ the expansion and rate of success of our sales channels; ■ actions relating to ongoing FDA compliance; ■ the effect of intellectual property disputes; ■ the attraction and retention of key personnel; ■ an inability to control costs; and ■ general economic conditions as well as those specific to our customers and markets. We face production risks. We operate four primary production facilities, each of which manufactures unique products. Each facility also utilizes unique equipment that can be expensive and time consuming to replace. If an event occurred that resulted in damage to one or more of our production facilities or certain equipment, we may be unable to produce the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. Due to the FDA’s and other stringent regulations regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish replacement sources for certain component materials. Any interruption in manufacturing, or in the ability to obtain raw materials and component supplies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Manufacturing or quality control problems may arise in any of our businesses as we increase production or as additional manufacturing capacity is required in the future. These factors may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Surgical product components are obtained from suppliers located in the United States, as well as in Latin America, Europe, and Asia. While we believe there is adequate access to alternative suppliers, any disruption in supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. I-13 We are subject to a comprehensive system of federal, state and international laws and regulations, and we could be the subject of an enforcement action or face lawsuits and monetary or equitable judgments. Our operations are affected by various state, federal and international healthcare, environmental, antitrust, anti-corruption and employment laws, including for example various FDA regulations, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, False Claims Acts, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). We are subject to periodic inspections to determine compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation requirements, current medical device adverse event reporting regulations and foreign rules and regulations. Product approvals by the FDA and other foreign regulators can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. The failure to comply with regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in FDA Form-483 notices and/or Warning Letters, fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, detainment, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund the cost of any device previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the healthcare industry is under scrutiny from state governments and the federal government with respect to industry practices in the area of sales and marketing. If our marketing or sales activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, or other applicable laws, we may be subject to warnings from the FDA or enforcement actions from the FDA or other enforcement bodies. In the recent past, medical device manufacturers have been the subject of investigations from state and federal prosecutors related to their relationships with doctors, among other activities or practices. If an enforcement action involving us were to occur, it could result in penalties, fines, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federally-funded programs and/or prohibitions on our ability to sell our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our brachytherapy manufacturing operations involve the manufacturing and possession of radioactive materials, which are subject to stringent regulation. The users of our brachytherapy seed products are required to possess licenses issued by the states in which they reside or the NRC. User licenses are also required by some of the foreign jurisdictions in which we may seek to market our products. There can be no assurance that current licenses held by us for our manufacturing operations will remain in force or that additional licenses required for our operations will be issued. There also can be no assurance that our customers will receive or retain the radioactive materials licenses required to possess and use our brachytherapy products or that delays in the granting of such licenses will not hinder our ability to market our products. Furthermore, regulation of our radioactive materials manufacturing processes involves the imposition of financial requirements related to public safety and decommissioning, and there are costs and regulatory uncertainties associated with the disposal of radioactive waste generated by our manufacturing operations. There can be no assurance that the imposition of such requirements and the costs and regulatory restrictions associated with disposal of waste will not, in the future, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required under our radioactive materials license to maintain radiation control and radiation safety personnel, procedures, equipment and processes, and to monitor our facilities and our employees and contractors. We are also required to provide financial assurance that adequate funding will exist for end-of-life radiological decommissioning of our cyclotrons and other areas of our properties that contain radioactive materials. We have provided this financial assurance through the issuance of letters of credit. We have so far been successful in explaining to the Georgia Department of Natural Resources that we will not have to dispose of our cyclotrons, but instead will be able to sell them for re-use or use for spare parts if we cease to operate them. Thus, we are only required to estimate and provide financial assurance for the end-of-life remediation and disposal costs associated with ancillary structures, such as plumbing, laboratory equipment and chemical processing facilities. However, if the Georgia Department of Natural Resources was to require that we include the cost of decommissioning our cyclotrons in our financial assurance demonstration, the amount of funds required to be set aside by us to cover decommissioning costs could dramatically increase. Failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, licenses and permits could significantly delay our manufacturing and/or marketing efforts. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations, or interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new restrictive regulations could adversely affect us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to our dependence on the medical device business, and specifically the brachytherapy and surgical products markets. All of our revenues are generated from the medical device business, specifically the surgical products and brachytherapy seed markets. Through April 2005, virtually all of our revenues were generated from the brachytherapy seed market. The growth of our surgical products business has reduced our dependence on the brachytherapy business. However, there is no assurance that we can continue to successfully diversify our business, and a lack of diversification or over reliance on any one of our businesses can be a risk. I-14 We are dependent on new technological development. We compete in markets characterized by technological innovation, extensive research efforts and significant competition. New developments in technology may have a material adverse effect on the development or sale of our products and may render such products noncompetitive or obsolete. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater capital resources, marketing experience, research and development staffs and facilities than us, are currently engaged in the development of products and innovative methods for treating cancer, and for competing with our wound closure, vascular access and specialty needle products. Significant developments by any of these companies or advances by medical researchers at universities, government research facilities or private research laboratories could reduce or eliminate the entire market for any or all of our products. We face significant competition. Our surgical products business competes with other suppliers of wound closure, vascular access and specialty needle products. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base, than we do. In our brachytherapy seed business, competing treatments such as IMRT and robotic surgery have been gaining market share, which we believe is due primarily to favorable reimbursement rates set by Medicare. Additionally, many companies located outside of the United States, in particular in Asia, produce and supply similar surgical products. These companies may have access to substantially lower costs of production. Accordingly, such competitors or future competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than us. As a result, we may be at a disadvantage when competing with these larger companies. If we fail to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We face pricing pressures. Our businesses are subject to intense pressure to lower pricing as our customers are leveraging current economic conditions to demand reduced pricing or more favorable payment discounts or to resist price increases. Accordingly, we could find it difficult to offset discounts with in-house cost savings measures. Failure to offer satisfactory savings to our customers or to successfully reduce our costs may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We are highly dependent on our marketing and advertising specialists and our direct sales organization in the brachytherapy business. Any failure to build and manage our direct sales organization could negatively affect our revenues. We are highly dependent on our direct sales organization comprised of brachytherapy specialists who promote and support our brachytherapy products. There is intense competition for skilled sales and marketing employees, particularly for people who have experience in the radiation oncology market. Accordingly, we could find it difficult to hire or retain skilled individuals to sell our products. Failure to retain our direct sales force could adversely affect our growth and our ability to meet our revenue goals. There can be no assurance that our direct sales and marketing efforts will be successful. If we are not successful in our direct sales and marketing, our sales revenue and results of operations are likely to be materially adversely affected. We depend partially on our relationships with distributors and other industry participants to market our surgical and brachytherapy products, and if these relationships are discontinued or if we are unable to develop new relationships, our revenues could decline. A significant portion of our surgical products revenue is derived from our relationships with OEMs, dealers and distributors. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or develop these relationships with OEMs, agents and distributors and other industry participants or that these relationships will continue to be successful. If any of these relationships is terminated, not renewed or otherwise unsuccessful, and we do not retain the ultimate customers or develop additional relationships, our product sales could decline, and our ability to grow our product lines could be adversely affected. We rely, and will continue to rely, upon collaborative relationships with agents and distributors and other industry participants to maintain market access to potential customers. Some of the entities, with which we have relationships to help market and distribute our products, also produce or distribute products that directly compete with our products. In particular, Bard is one of our competitors in the brachytherapy seed market, and also a competitor for certain of our surgical products segment applications. Yet Bard is also a non-exclusive distributor of our TheraSeed® product and a customer of our surgical products business. Sales to Bard under the Bard Agreement represented 28% of our brachytherapy seed segment revenue in 2011. Our surgical products segment also sells to Bard. Total sales to Bard, including sales in our brachytherapy seed segment and our surgical products segment, represented approximately 10% of consolidated revenue in 2011. I-15 We also had a supply and reseller agreement in our brachytherapy seed business with Core Oncology under which Core became a non-exclusive distributor of our TheraSeed® device in 2010. Sales to Core were approximately 8% of our brachytherapy segment revenue in 2011. The terms of our brachytherapy related distribution agreement with Bard is currently less than two years. In February 2011, we terminated our distribution agreement with Core. In February 2012 we acquired Core’s prostate brachytherapy customers. There is no assurance that any of our distribution agreements will be extended and if they are not extended, or they are otherwise terminated (such as the Core agreement), how much unit volume being sold through them will be able to be captured by our direct sales force or other distributors that we may utilize. Doctors and hospitals may not adopt our products and technologies at levels sufficient to sustain our business or to achieve our desired growth rate. To date, we have attained only limited penetration of the total potential market for most of our products. Our future growth and success depends upon creating broad awareness and acceptance of our products by doctors, hospitals and freestanding clinics, as well as patients. This will require substantial marketing and educational efforts, which will be costly and may not be successful. The target customers for our products may not adopt these technologies or may adopt them at a rate that is slower than desired. In addition, potential customers who decide to utilize any of our devices may later choose to purchase competitors’ products. Important factors that will affect our ability to attain broad market acceptance of our products include: • doctor and/or patient awareness and acceptance of our products; • the real or perceived effectiveness and safety of our products; • the relationship between the cost of our products and the real or perceived medical benefits of our products; • the relationship between the cost of our products and the financial benefits to our customers using our products, which will be greatly affected by the coverage of, and reimbursement for, our products by governmental and private third-party payors; and • market perception of our ability to continue to grow our business and develop enhanced products. Failure of our products to gain broad market acceptance could cause our revenues to decline and our business to suffer. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, new SEC regulations and NYSE rules are creating uncertainty for public companies, and are particularly burdensome for smaller public companies such as ours. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur relating to regulatory developments or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we have invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. There are limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property, and we are dependent on trade secrets. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain, assert and defend patent rights, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We hold rights to issued United States and foreign patents. There can be no assurance that rights under patents held by or licensed to us will provide us with competitive advantages or that others will not independently develop similar products or design around or infringe the patents or other proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patent obtained or licensed by us will be held to be valid and enforceable if challenged by another party. I-16 There can be no assurance that patents have not been issued or will not be issued in the future that conflict with our patent rights or prevent us from marketing our products. Such conflicts could result in a rejection of our or our licensors’ patent applications or the invalidation of patents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of such conflicts, or in the event we believe that competitive products infringe patents to which we hold rights, we may pursue patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings against, or may be required to defend against litigation or proceedings involving, holders of such conflicting patents or competing products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in any such litigation or proceeding, and the results and cost of such litigation or proceeding may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if patents that contain dominating or conflicting claims have been or are subsequently issued to others and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of others. No assurance can be given that any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights would be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is foreclosed. We rely to a significant degree on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that are either not patentable or that we choose not to patent. We seek to protect non-patented proprietary information, in part, by confidentiality agreements with suppliers, employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. The disclosure to third parties of proprietary non-patented information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our devices. Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians, which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. For example, in an effort to decrease costs, certain hospitals and other customers sometimes re-sterilize products otherwise intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for these procedures, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. These outcomes, along with cost containment measures, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, Medicare covers a substantial percentage of the patients treated for prostate cancer in the United States, and consequently, the costs for prostate cancer treatment are subject to Medicare’s prescribed rates of reimbursement. The utilization of our brachytherapy products and many of the products in our surgical products business may be influenced by Medicare’s reimbursement levels, and the policies of other third party payors, which can change periodically. Unfavorable reimbursement levels and confusion regarding potential changes in Medicare have adversely affected sales of our brachytherapy products in the past and could do so in the future. I-17 We believe that Medicare reimbursement policies have affected the brachytherapy market and will continue to affect the brachytherapy market. Prior to 2010, Medicare provided reimbursement for brachytherapy seeds under the “charges adjusted to costs” methodology, which is based on the actual invoiced cost of the seeds and which we sometimes refer to as a “pass-through” methodology. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) published a final hospital outpatient prospective payment system (“OPPS”) on November 20, 2009 with fixed prospective payment rates for brachytherapy seeds. This fixed OPPS, which we sometimes refer to as “fixed reimbursement”, went in effect on January 1, 2010. The fixed per seed rate at which Medicare reimburses hospitals for the purchase of seeds is established annually by CMS. We expect to continue to support efforts to urge Congress and CMS to replace this “fixed reimbursement” rule by returning to the “pass-through” reimbursement policies which existed prior to 2010. Fixed reimbursement policies at CMS can be expected to lead to pricing pressure from hospitals and other healthcare providers, and to have an adverse effect on our brachytherapy revenue. The extent of the effect is impossible for us to predict, especially when fixed reimbursement policies coincide with 1) competition from competing technologies for the treatment of early stage prostate cancer, which enjoy favorable CMS reimbursement rates even though these technologies are less proven than brachytherapy and 2) uncertainties regarding the implementation and impact of healthcare reform generally. These factors could have an adverse effect on brachytherapy revenue. See “Medicare Developments” included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” below for additional information regarding CMS reimbursement policies for brachytherapy seeds. Responding to market opportunities and competitive situations could have an adverse effect on average selling prices. Responding to market opportunities and competitive situations could also have a favorable effect or prevent an unfavorable effect on market share and volumes. Conversely, we or our non-exclusive distributors could individually and independently decide to maintain per unit pricing under certain competitive situations that could adversely affect current or potential market share and volumes. There can be no assurance (i) that current or future limitations or requirements for reimbursement by Medicare or other third party payors for prostate cancer treatment will not materially adversely affect the market for our brachytherapy or other products, (ii) that health administration authorities outside of the United States will provide reimbursement at acceptable levels, if at all or (iii) that any such reimbursement will be continued at rates that will enable us to maintain prices at levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on brachytherapy revenue. We may be unable to maintain sufficient liability insurance. Our business is subject to product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. We maintain product liability and general liability coverage. These coverages are subject to annual renewal. There can be no assurance that liability claims will not exceed the scope of coverage or limits of such policies or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we do not or cannot maintain sufficient liability insurance, our ability to market our products may be significantly impaired. In addition, product liability claims, as well as negative publicity arising out of such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not comply with laws and regulations relating to our use of hazardous materials, we may incur substantial liabilities. We use hazardous materials and chemicals in our manufacturing operations. We are required to comply with increasingly rigorous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety, including requirements governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and the discharge of materials into the environment generally. Although, we believe that we handle, store and dispose of these materials in a manner that complies with state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury exists. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for decontamination costs, other clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities. To help minimize these risks, we employ a full-time Environmental Health and Safety Officer and, when appropriate, we utilize outside professional services organizations to help us evaluate environmental regulations and monitor our compliance with such regulations. In addition, we procure insurance specifically designed to mitigate environmental liability exposures. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management, and could result in significant monetary or equitable judgments against us. For example, lawsuits by employees, patients, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, business partners, distributors, stockholders, or competitors could be very costly and could substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. I-18 Defects in, or misuse of, our products, or any detrimental side effects that result from the use of our products, could result in serious injury or death and could require costly recalls or subject us to costly and time-consuming product liability claims. This could harm future sales and require us to pay substantial damages. Our brachytherapy seed products deliver a highly concentrated and confined dose of radiation directly to the prostate from within the patient’s body. Surrounding tissues and organs are typically spared excessive radiation exposure. Our wound closure, vascular access and specialty needle products are also utilized directly on patients. It is an inherent risk of the industries in which we operate that we might be sued in a situation where one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, a personal injury to a patient, health care provider, or other user. Although we believe that as of the current date we have adequate insurance to address anticipated potential liabilities associated with product liability, any unforeseen product liability exposure in excess of, or outside the scope of, such insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Any such claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in significant damage to our business. The FDA’s medical device reporting regulations require us to report any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our products malfunctioned in a way that would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction reoccurred. Any required filing could result in an investigation of our products and possibly subsequent regulatory action against us if it is found that one of our products caused the death or serious injury of a patient. Because of the nature of our products, the tolerance for error in the design, manufacture or use of our products may be small or nonexistent. If a product designed or manufactured by us is defective, whether due to design or manufacturing defects, or improper assembly, use or servicing of the product or other reasons, the product may need to be recalled, possibly at our expense. Furthermore, the adverse effect of a product recall might not be limited to the cost of the recall. For example, a product recall could cause applicable regulatory authorities to investigate us as well as cause our customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. Recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts, could cause us to suffer substantial costs, lost revenues and a loss of reputation, each of which could harm our business. Products as complex as the planning and dose calculation software systems that we use internally may also contain undetected software errors or defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects even after they have been tested, which could result in the rejection of our products by our customers and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased support costs. We may also be subject to claims for damages related to any errors in our products. Although a number of our surgical products are Class II devices subject to certain special controls by the FDA, many of our products are Class I devices, meaning that the FDA considers these products to present minimal potential for harm to the user. Nonetheless, if there is an error in the design, manufacture or use of any of these products, there remains a risk of recall, rejection of our product by our customers, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development of resources and increased support costs. We may also be subject to claims for damages related to any error in such products. We may require additional capital in the future, and we may be unable to obtain capital on favorable terms or at all. Although we expect our existing capital resources and future operating cash flows to be sufficient for the foreseeable future, certain events, such as operating losses or unavailability of credit could significantly reduce our remaining cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Furthermore, we may require additional capital for research and development, the purchase of other businesses, technologies or products. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the time and cost involved in expanding production capacity, the cost involved in protecting our proprietary rights and the time and expense involved in completing product development programs. If we are unable to develop new enhancements and new generations, we may be unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. Rapid and significant technological change in products offered as well as enhancements to existing products and surgical techniques coupled with evolving industry standards and new product introductions characterize the market for our brachytherapy, wound closure, vascular access, and specialty needle products. Many of our brachytherapy and surgical products are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing. These activities require significant capital commitments and investment. If we are unable to raise needed capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to maintain our competitive advantage in the marketplace. I-19 New product developments in the healthcare industry are inherently risky and unpredictable. These risks include: ● failure to prove feasibility; ● time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; ● timing and cost of product development and regulatory approvals and clearances; ● competitors’ response to new product developments; ● development, launch, manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance cost overruns; ● failure to obtain customer acceptance and payment; ● customer demands for retrofits of both old and new products; and ● excess inventory caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products. The high cost of technological innovation is coupled with rapid and significant change in the regulations governing the products that compete in both our surgical products and brachytherapy markets. We may also be affected by industry standards that could change on short notice and by the introduction of new products and technologies that could render existing products and technologies uncompetitive. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhancements to our existing brachytherapy products and innovative surgical products. Without new product introductions, our revenues will likely suffer. Even if customers accept new enhanced products, the costs associated with making these products available to customers, as well as our ability to obtain capital to finance such costs, could reduce or prevent us from increasing our operating margins. Our cash balances and marketable securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. Our cash and cash equivalents represent cash deposits, money market funds, and commercial paper and are invested with a limited number of financial institutions. Investments in marketable securities are made in accordance with our investment policies, which generally allow investments in high-credit quality corporate and municipal obligations. All of these cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, interest rate and counterparty risks. These risks may be exacerbated by the disruptions and volatility in the economic climate, lack of liquidity in the credit and investment markets, economic difficulties encountered by many financial institutions and other economic uncertainties that have in the past and may in the future affect various sectors of the financial markets causing credit and liquidity issues. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We face unknown and unpredictable risks related to the economic climate. Financial markets and the economies in the United States and internationally have experienced extreme disruption in recent periods and volatility and conditions could recur. This can result in severely diminished liquidity and credit availability in the market, which could impair our ability to access capital or adversely affect our operations. An economic downturn may also, among other things: ● create downward pressure on the pricing of our products; ● affect the collection of accounts receivable; ● increase the sales cycle for certain of our products; ● slow the adoption of new products and technologies; ● adversely affect our customers, causing them to reduce spending; or ● adversely affect our suppliers, which could adversely affect our ability to produce our products. Any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Changes in FDA requirements for obtaining 510(k) approval to market and sell medical device products in the U.S. may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA has been considering legislative, regulatory and/or administrative changes to the FDA’s 510(k) program. Various committees of the U.S. Congress have also indicated that they may consider investigating the FDA’s 510(k) process. Under the current 510(k) rules, certain types of medical devices can obtain FDA approval without lengthy and expensive clinical trials. Among our product offerings, those products that require FDA approval have received such approval under the 510(k) rules. Our R&D programs and new product programs contemplate obtaining any required FDA approvals under the current 510(k) rules. Any changes to the current 510(k) or related FDA rules that make such rules more stringent or require more clinical data can significantly increase the time and costs associated with bringing new products to market. This may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. I-20 We face risks in connection with our current project to install a new ERP system. We are currently replacing our multiple legacy business systems with a corporate-wide ERP system to handle various business, operating and financial processes. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that can involve substantial expenditures for system hardware, software, and implementation activities. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and may require transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Problems or delays in our ERP implementation could result in operational issues including delayed shipments or production, missed sales, inefficiencies in our business operations, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system and the associated process changes do not function as expected or do not give rise to the expected benefits. System delays or malfunctions could also disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report the results of our consolidated operations, financial position, and cash flows. This may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In March 2010, significant reforms to the healthcare system were adopted in the form of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”). The PPACA includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement to certain providers, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. Regulations implementing the tax have been proposed, but not finalized. In addition, some members of Congress are working to repeal the tax. While we continue to evaluate the impact of this tax on our overall business, if this tax was applicable to all of our product sales this would have equated to an excise tax of approximately $2 million in 2011. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The PPACA and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. In addition, the excise tax will increase our cost of doing business. The impact of the PPACA and these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations. There have been a number of lawsuits filed that challenge all or part of the healthcare reform law. A number of the lawsuits have been ruled on by federal appeals courts, and those rulings were not consistent. The U,S, Supreme Court has agreed to hear these cases, but we cannot predict how it will rule. Further, we cannot predict whether Congress may revisit some or all of the healthcare reform law during 2012. Because of these uncertainties, we cannot predict whether any or all of the legislation will be overturned, repealed, or modified and what the impact on our business may be resulting from any such changes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 