Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company cautions the reader that the risk factors discussed below may not be exhaustive. The Company operates in a continually changing business environment and new risk factors may emerge from time to time. The Company can not predict such new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Risks Related to our Business There are risks associated with our acquisitions, potential acquisitions and joint ventures. An important element of our strategy is to seek acquisition prospects and diversification opportunities that we believe will complement or diversify our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage and customer base, enhance our technological capabilities or offer revenue and profit growth opportunities. We acquired CP Medical in May 2005. Further transactions of this nature could result in potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities, use of cash and/or the incurring of debt and the assumption of contingent liabilities. Acquisitions entail numerous costs, challenges and risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies, personnel and products and the retention of existing customers and strategic partners, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. Other risks include the potential strain on the combined companies’ financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures, greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to integration, and potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired entities. No assurance can be given as to our ability to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel acquired in past acquisitions or those of other entities that may be acquired in the future or to successfully develop any products or technologies that might be contemplated by any future joint venture or similar arrangement. A failure to integrate CP Medical or to integrate future potential acquisitions could result in our failure to achieve our revenue growth or other objectives associated with acquisitions, or recover costs associated with these acquisitions, which could affect our profitability or cause the market price of our common stock to fall. 17 We may not realize the benefits of the CP Medical acquisition. The process of continued integration of CP Medical may be complex, time consuming and expensive and may disrupt our businesses, and could affect our financial condition, results of operations or future prospects.. The combined company will need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize benefits or synergies from the acquisition. These challenges include the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including: • integrating the operations and technologies of the two companies; • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; • retaining existing customers of both companies and attracting additional customers; • retaining strategic partners of each company and attracting new strategic partners; and • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems. The execution of these post-acquisition events will involve considerable risks and may not be successful. These risks include: • the potential disruption of the combined companies ongoing businesses and distraction of management; • the potential strain on the combined companies financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; and • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquisition and the combined operations. The Company may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition. The inability to successfully integrate the operations, technology and personnel of the two companies, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The cost of the CP Medical acquisition could harm our financial results. Theragenics invested approximately $26.7 million for the acquisition of CP Medical. If the benefits of the acquisition do not exceed the associated costs, including costs related to integrating the two companies and dilution to our stockholders resulting from the issuance of shares in connection with the acquisition, our financial results, including earnings per share, could be materially harmed. We are dependent on key personnel. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and technical personnel. Therefore, our future success is dependent on our key employees. While our former chief financial officer and treasurer and our former general counsel and corporate secretary resigned in 2005, management believes that our business and financial results have not been adversely affected. However, if the services of our chief executive or other key employees cease to be available, the loss could adversely affect our business and financial results. We carry key employee insurance for Ms. Jacobs in the amount of $1 million. In addition, we are a party to agreements with our executive officers to help ensure each officer’s continual service in the event of a change-in-control. Our stock price has and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, general conditions in the medical device and wound closure industries, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, or other events or factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many technology companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Specific factors applicable to us or broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our stock price and share trading volume in the past and may continue to do so. 18 We face production risks. Theragenics’ manufacturing process in the brachytherapy business requires, among other things, the use of cyclotrons, which are used to manufacture Pd-103 for our brachytherapy seed products. Cyclotron capacity and performance directly affect the Company’s ability to achieve and increase sales levels. Due to the intricate nature of cyclotrons and the Company’s exacting specifications for their performance, planned downtime for maintenance and repair is crucial and unexpected downtime may occur. Unexpected mechanical breakdowns or other production delays could materially adversely affect the Company’s production capacity and its business, financial condition and results of operations. Subsequent to the restructuring announced on August 11, 2005 (see “Restructuring” above), the Company operates eight cyclotrons. Management has no plans to purchase additional cyclotrons. Cyclotron operation constitutes only one component of our brachytherapy device manufacturing process. Manufacturing or quality control problems may arise as the Company increases production or as additional manufacturing capacity is required in the future. These factors may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. CP Medical procures components from suppliers located locally in the United States, as well as in Latin America, Europe, and Asia. While we believe there is adequate access to alternative suppliers, any disruption in supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to stringent government regulation. The manufacture and sale of the Company’s products are subject to stringent government regulation in the United States and other countries. As of December 31, 2005, TheraSeed®, I-Seed, and certain CP Medical products have 510(k) clearance from the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) for commercial distribution in the United States. FDA and other governmental approvals and clearances are subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems could result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market. The commercial distribution in the United States of new products developed by the Company often will be dependent on obtaining the prior approval or clearance of the FDA, which can take many years to obtain and entail significant costs. No assurances can be made that any such approvals or clearances will be obtained on a timely basis or at all. In countries in which the Company’s products are not approved as of December 31, 2005, the use or sale of the Company’s products will require approvals by government agencies comparable to the FDA. The process of obtaining such approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. There can be no assurance that the necessary approvals for the marketing of the Company’s products in other markets will be obtained on a timely basis or at all. The Company is also required to comply with applicable FDA regulations for Quality System Regulation (“QSR”), including extensive record keeping, reporting and periodic inspections of its manufacturing facilities. Similar requirements are imposed by governmental agencies in other countries. A new 510(k) clearance is required for any modifications in the TheraSeed®, I-Seed, or certain CP Medical devices or their labeling that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the original products. Under the FDA’s regulatory scheme, the decision whether to seek 510(k) clearance for a modified device is left to the manufacturer in the first instance, and management has thus far determined that no such clearance has been required. The FDA has the right to review and revoke 510(k) clearance at any time. The FDA may determine that a pre-market approval, whereby the FDA conducts a scientific and regulatory review of a Class III medical device for safety and effectiveness, may be required for future products or for future modifications to the TheraSeed® or I-Seed devices or certain CP Medical products. 19 The TheraSeed® and I-Seed devices and certain CP Medical products have also been approved for marketing throughout the member countries of the European Union by obtaining appropriate CE Marks. As a result of receiving CE Marks, the Company must also comply with the regulations of the Competent Authorities of the European Union for any such devices sold in the member nations of the European Union. The Company’s manufacturing operations involve the manufacturing and possession of radioactive materials, which are subject to stringent regulation. The users of the Company’s brachytherapy seed products are required to possess licenses issued by the states in which they reside or the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”). User licenses are also required by some of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company may seek to market its products. There can be no assurance that current licenses held by the Company for its manufacturing operations will remain in force or that additional licenses required for the Company’s operations will be issued. There also can be no assurance that the Company’s customers will receive or retain the radioactive materials licenses required to possess and use TheraSeed® or I-Seed or that delays in the granting of such licenses will not hinder the Company’s ability to market its products. Furthermore, regulation of the Company’s radioactive materials manufacturing processes involves the imposition of financial requirements related to public safety and decommissioning, and there are costs and regulatory uncertainties associated with the disposal of radioactive waste generated by the Company’s manufacturing operations. There can be no assurance that the imposition of such requirements and the costs and regulatory restrictions associated with disposal of waste will not, in the future, adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is required under its radioactive materials license to maintain radiation control and radiation safety personnel, procedures, equipment and processes, and to monitor its facilities and its employees and contractors. The Company is also required to provide financial assurance that adequate funding will exist for end-of-life radiological decommissioning of its cyclotrons and other radioactive areas of its properties that contain radioactive materials. The Company has provided this financial assurance through the issuance of letters of credit. The Company has so far been successful in explaining to the Georgia Department of Natural Resources that it will not have to dispose of its cyclotrons, but instead will be able to sell them for re-use or use for spare parts if it ceases to operate them. Thus, the Company is only required to estimate and provide financial assurance for the end-of-life remediation and disposal costs associated with ancillary structures, such as plumbing, laboratory equipment and chemical processing facilities. However, if the Georgia Department of Natural Resources was to require that the Company include the cost of decommissioning its cyclotrons in its financial assurance demonstration, the amount of money required to be set aside by the Company to cover decommissioning costs could dramatically increase. Failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, licenses and permits could significantly delay the Company’s marketing efforts. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations, or interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new restrictive regulations could adversely affect the Company in obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions or criminal prosecution and materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 We face risk related to lack of diversification. Prior to the acquisition of CP Medical, virtually all of the Company’s revenues were generated from the brachytherapy seed market, and the Company may continue to be substantially dependent on the brachytherapy market. As of December 31, 2005, the Company is divided into two business segments: the brachytherapy seed segment and the CP Medical segment. However, the majority of our revenues may continue to be generated from the brachytherapy seed market, and our lack of diversification should be considered a risk as the Company is not able to offset losses from one product line with another. We are dependent on new technological development. The Company competes in a market characterized by technological innovation, extensive research efforts and significant competition. New developments in technology may have a material adverse effect on the development or sale of the Company’s products and may render such products noncompetitive or obsolete. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater capital resources, marketing experience, research and development staffs and facilities than the Company, are currently engaged in the development of products and innovative methods for treating cancer that are similar to, or compete with, certain of the Company’s products and technologies. Significant developments by any of these companies or advances by medical researchers at universities, government research facilities or private research laboratories could eliminate the entire market for any or all of the Company’s products. We face significant competition. All of our products are subject to intense competition. Our brachytherapy seeds compete with prostate cancer treatment methods that are well established in the medical community, including radical prostatectomy (see “Treatment Options - Brachytherapy Seed Business”, and “Competition - Brachytherapy Seed Business” in Item 1 above). Although favorable clinical results for seeding have been released, more extensive outcome data is available for radical prostatectomy (RP), and urologists continue to perform RP with considerable frequency. Our brachytherapy business is also subject to intense competition within the brachytherapy seed market. C.R. Bard, Inc. distributes Palladium-103 (“Pd-103”) seeds manufactured by Theragenics, and also manufactures and distributes its own Iodine-125 (“I-125”) seeds; Nycomed Amersham PLC, a subsidiary of General Electric (through its control of Oncura) and Mentor Corporation manufacture and sell I-125 brachytherapy seeds and distribute Pd-103 seeds produced by other manufacturers; and North American Scientific, Inc. manufactures and sells I-125 and Pd-103 brachytherapy seeds. Several additional companies currently manufacture and sell brachytherapy seeds as well. Mentor has announced that its urology division, which includes its brachytherapy business, is for sale, though no purchaser has been publicly identified as of the current date. Management believes that Theragenics has competitive advantages over these companies including, but not limited to: (i) its proprietary production processes that have been developed and patented; (ii) its 16 year history of manufacturing radioactive medical devices and its record of reliability and safety in its manufacturing operations; (iii) vertical integration of production and related services, (iv) the time and resources required for competitors’ production capabilities to ramp up to commercial production on a scale comparable to Theragenics; (v) outsourcing of the Company’s cancer information center to healthcare specialist, Telerx, a subsidiary of Merck Pharmaceutical (vi) its direct sales force, and the non-exclusive distribution agreement that the Company currently has in place. Through CP Medical, we also compete with other suppliers of sutures, cardiac pacing cables, brachytherapy needles, sleeves and spacers, and other related medical products. Many of these competitors, including Ethicon, Inc., a Johnson & Johnson company, and U.S. Surgical, a division of Tyco Healthcare Group LP, have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base, than CP Medical. Accordingly, such competitors or future competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than us. As a result, we may be at a disadvantage when competing with these larger companies. If CP Medical fails to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 21 We are highly dependent on our marketing and advertising specialists and our direct sales organization. Any failure to build and manage our direct sales organization could negatively affect our revenues. Beginning in 2002, the Company engaged marketing and advertising specialists with experience in healthcare and direct-to-consumer marketing, and expects direct-to-consumer activity to continue during 2006. The Company also expects to continue other activities in an attempt to support its brand name and increase demand for the brachytherapy seed devices, including direct-to-consumer television and print advertising, clinical studies aimed at showing the advantages of the TheraSeed® and I-Seed devices in the treatment of prostate cancer, technical field support to TheraSeed® and I-Seed customers, and other customer service and patient information activities. We are highly dependent on our direct sales organization comprised of brachytherapy specialists who promote and support our brachytherapy products. There is intense competition for skilled sales and marketing employees, particularly for people who have experience in the radiation oncology market. Accordingly, we could find it difficult to hire or retain skilled individuals to sell our products. Any failure to build our direct sales force could adversely affect our growth and our ability to meet our revenue goals. There can be no assurance that our direct sales and marketing efforts will be successful. If we are not successful in our direct sales and marketing, our sales revenue and results of operations are likely to be materially adversely affected. We depend partially on our relationships with distributors and other industry participants to market TheraSeed® and I-Seed and certain of our CP Medical products, and if these relationships are discontinued or if we are unable to develop new relationships, our revenues could decline. We rely, and will continue to rely, upon collaborative relationships with agents and distributors and other industry participants to maintain TheraSeed®, I-Seed and certain CP Medical products market access to potential customers. Some of the entities with whom we have relationships to help market and distribute our products also produce or distribute products that directly compete with TheraSeed®, I-Seed and certain CP Medical products. In particular, C.R. Bard, one of our primary competitors in the brachytherapy seed business, is also a distributor of our TheraSeed® product. Sales to Bard represented 61% of brachytherapy product revenue in 2005. The terms of our distribution agreement with Bard provides for automatic one year extensions of the term, unless either party gives notice of its intent not to renew at least twelve months prior to the end of the current term. The current term expires on December 31, 2007, and will be automatically extended for one additional year unless either party gives notice of its intent not to extend by December 31, 2006. We cannot assure you that this distribution agreement will be extended and if it is not, how much unit volume being sold through Bard will be able to be retained. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or develop these relationships with agents and distributors and other industry participants or that these relationships will continue to be successful. If any of these relationships is terminated, not renewed or otherwise unsuccessful, or if we are unable to develop additional relationships, our product sales could decline, and our ability to grow our product lines could be adversely affected. 22 Doctors and hospitals may not adopt our products and technologies at levels sufficient to sustain our business or to achieve our desired growth rate. To date, we have attained only limited penetration of the total potential worldwide market for prostate cancer treatment, innovative sutures, cardiac pacing cables and brachytherapy needles/sleeves/spacers. Our future growth and success depends upon creating broad awareness and acceptance of our products by doctors, hospitals and freestanding clinics, as well as patients. This will require substantial marketing and educational efforts, which will be costly and may not be successful. The target customers for our products may not adopt these technologies or may adopt them at a rate that is slower than desired. In addition, potential customers who decide to utilize any of our devices, may later choose to purchase competitors’ products. Important factors that will affect our ability to attain broad market acceptance of our products include: • doctor and patient awareness and acceptance of our products; • the real or perceived effectiveness and safety of our products; • the relationship between the cost of our products and the real or perceived medical benefits of our products; • the relationship between the cost of our products and the financial benefits to our customers using our products, which will be greatly affected by the coverage of, and reimbursement for, our products by governmental and private third-party payors; and • market perception of our ability to continue to grow our business and develop enhanced products. Failure of our products to gain broad market acceptance could cause our revenues to decline and our business to suffer. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NYSE rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we have invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. 23 There are limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property and we are dependent on trade secrets. The Company’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to obtain, assert and defend patent rights, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. The Company holds rights to issued United States and foreign patents. The Company also holds a worldwide exclusive license for the use of technology required for producing the TheraSphere device. Theragenics® holds the rights to all improvements developed on this technology. The Company, in turn, sublicenses exclusive worldwide rights to this technology and all improvements. The Company holds an exclusive license to patents for technology concerning methods for delivery of the TheraSphere device in several countries, and has an exclusive license to some additional patent applications on file in other countries. There can be no assurance that rights under patents held by or licensed to the Company will provide it with competitive advantages or that others will not independently develop similar products or design around or infringe the patents or other proprietary rights owned by or licensed to the Company. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patent obtained or licensed by the Company will be held to be valid and enforceable if challenged by another party. There can be no assurance that patents have not been issued or will not be issued in the future that conflict with the Company’s patent rights or prevent the Company from marketing its products. Such conflicts could result in a rejection of the Company’s or its licensors’ patent applications or the invalidation of patents, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of such conflicts, or in the event the Company believes that competitive products infringe patents to which the Company holds rights, the Company may pursue patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings against, or may be required to defend against litigation or proceedings involving, holders of such conflicting patents or competing products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in any such litigation or proceeding, and the results and cost of such litigation or proceeding may materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if patents that contain dominating or conflicting claims have been or are subsequently issued to others and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, the Company may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of others. No assurance can be given that any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights would be made available on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. If the Company does not obtain such licenses, it could encounter delays or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is foreclosed. The Company relies to a significant degree on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that are either not patentable or that the Company chooses not to patent. The Company seeks to protect non-patented proprietary information, in part, by confidentiality agreements with suppliers, employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the Company would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that the Company’s trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. The disclosure to third parties of proprietary non-patented information could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on Medicare reimbursement policies. A substantial percentage of the patients treated for prostate cancer in the United States are covered by Medicare, and consequently, the costs for prostate cancer treatment are subject to Medicare’s prescribed rates of reimbursement. The utilization of TheraSeed®, I-Seed and many of the CP Medical products may be influenced by Medicare’s reimbursement levels, which can change periodically. 24 On December 8, 2003, the President signed the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) into law that provides for improved reimbursement and coding policies in 2004 and beyond for brachytherapy seeds/sources under Medicare’s hospital outpatient prospective payment system (“OPPS”). The brachytherapy provisions in the MMA, which went into effect on January 1, 2004, require Medicare to unbundle the cost of the brachytherapy seeds/sources from the costs of the brachytherapy procedure, catheters and needles under the OPPS. More specifically, the MMA requires Medicare to reimburse hospitals for each brachytherapy seed/source furnished between January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2006 based on the hospital’s costs for each patient (calculated from the hospital’s charges adjusted by the hospital’s specific cost-to-charge ratio). This means that hospital reimbursement is no longer limited to or dictated by the bundled reimbursement amounts assigned to the brachytherapy codes that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) used in 2003. The MMA also directs the U.S. Government Accountability Office (“GAO”, formerly the General Accounting Office) to conduct a study examining future payment policies for brachytherapy seeds. The GAO study is still pending. On November 10, 2005, CMS published its final rule on the OPPS for calendar year 2006. There are no changes in the reimbursement policy for brachytherapy seeds/sources for 2006, although there are some reductions for hospital payments for procedures required to implant brachytherapy seeds. Additionally, the GAO study referred to above may have an effect on the reimbursement level for seeds beginning January 1, 2007. Any new reimbursement policies may have an adverse effect on utilization of the Company's brachytherapy products. The Company believes its previous efforts in assisting policymakers in formulating and revising Medicare policies to recognize the unique aspects of classification and reimbursement that apply to brachytherapy devices such as TheraSeedâ were pivotal to the enactment of the improved 2003 Medicare legislation for brachytherapy seeds/sources. The Company plans to continue working to assist policymakers regarding these important issues in the future. Due to the fact that the Medicare rules governing coding of brachytherapy seeds/sources and the procedures required to implant seeds have undergone significant change during the past few years, and are likely to continue to undergo additional changes, the Company believes that Medicare reimbursement may continue to create confusion for hospitals and doctors going forward. Medicare’s OPPS reimbursement levels for the procedures performed during prostate brachytherapy could influence the utilization of brachytherapy seeds, including the Company’s brachytherapy products. There can be no assurance that (i) current or future limitations or requirements for reimbursement by Medicare or other third party payors for prostate cancer treatment will not materially adversely affect the market for TheraSeed®, or any of our other products, (ii) that health administration authorities outside of the United States will provide reimbursement at acceptable levels, if at all or (iii) that any such reimbursement will be continued at rates that will enable the Company to maintain prices at levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return. We may be unable to maintain sufficient liability insurance. The Company’s business is subject to product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. The Company maintains a product liability insurance policy and a general liability insurance policy, each with coverage of an annual aggregate maximum amount of $5 million. The Company also maintains umbrella liability policies with limits of $20 million per occurrence in the aggregate. The Company’s product liability and general liability policies are provided on a claims made basis and are subject to annual renewal. There can be no assurance that liability claims will not exceed the scope of coverage or limits of such policies or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If the Company does not or cannot maintain sufficient liability insurance, its ability to market its products may be significantly impaired. In addition, product liability claims, as well as negative publicity arising out of such claims, could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 25 If we do not comply with laws and regulations relating to our use of hazardous materials, we may incur substantial liabilities. We use hazardous materials and chemicals in our manufacturing operations. We are required to comply with increasingly rigorous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety, including requirements governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and the discharge of materials into the environment generally. During 2003, the Company became aware of the need for an Industrial Process Water Permit from the City of Buford, Georgia. The Company has taken all the required steps to obtain this permit and expects to obtain this permit, but has also requested a determination of non-applicability. In addition, the Company has been authorized by the City to discharge industrial process water to the municipal sewage system while the City considers its final decision. Although, we believe that we handle, store and dispose of these materials in a manner that complies with state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury exists. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for decontamination costs, other clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities. To help minimize these risks, we employ a full-time Environmental Health and Safety Officer and, when appropriate, we utilize outside professional services organizations to help us evaluate environmental regulations and monitor our compliance with such regulations. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management, and could result in significant monetary or equitable judgments against us. For example, lawsuits by employees, patients, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, business partners, distributors, stockholders, or competitors could be very costly and could substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. Defects in, or misuse of, our products, or any detrimental side effects that result from the use of our products, could result in serious injury or death and could require costly recalls or subject us to costly and time-consuming product liability claims. This could harm future sales and require us to pay substantial damages. Because both TheraSeed® and I-Seed deliver a highly concentrated and confined dose of radiation directly to the prostate, healthy surrounding tissues and organs are typically spared excessive radiation exposure. This typically results in fewer and less severe side effects and complications than may be incurred with other conventional prostate cancer therapies. It is an inherent risk of this industry that we might be sued in a situation where one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, a personal injury. Although we believe that as of December 31, 2005 we have adequate insurance to address anticipated potential liabilities associated with product liability, any unforeseen product liability, exposure in excess of, or outside the scope of, such insurance coverage could adversely affect our operating results. Any such claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in significant damage to our business. 26 The FDA’s medical device reporting regulations and the European Union Viligence reporting regulations require us to report any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our products malfunctioned in a way that would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction occurred. Any required filing could result in an investigation of our products and possibly subsequent regulatory action against us if it is found that one of our products caused the death or serious injury of a patient. Because of the nature of our products, the tolerance for error in the design, manufacture or use of our products may be small or nonexistent. If a product designed or manufactured by us is defective, whether due to design or manufacturing defects, or improper assembly, use or servicing of the product or other reasons, the product may need to be recalled, possibly at our expense. Furthermore, the adverse effect of a product recall might not be limited to the cost of the recall. For example, a product recall could cause applicable regulatory authorities to investigate us as well as cause our customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. Recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts, could cause us to suffer substantial costs, lost revenues and a loss of reputation, each of which could harm our business. Products as complex as our planning and dose calculation software systems may also contain undetected software errors or defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects even after they have been tested, which could result in the rejection of our products by our customers and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased support costs. We may also be subject to claims for damages related to any errors in our products. Although a number of the CP Medical products are Class II devices subject to certain special controls by the FDA, many of the CP Medical products are Class I devices, meaning that the FDA considers these products to present minimal potential for harm to the user. Nonetheless, if there is an error in the design, manufacture or use of any of these products, there remains a risk of recall, rejection of our product by our customers, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development of resources and increased support costs. We may also be subject to claims for damages related to any error in such products. As of December 31, 2005, we maintain product liability insurance, which has deductible amounts and per claim and aggregate limits. However, we cannot assure you that this insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or in sufficient amounts if at all, or that it will provide adequate coverage in the event that any product liability is actually incurred. We may require additional capital in the future and we may be unable to obtain capital on favorable terms or at all. Although we expect our existing capital resources and future operating cash flows to be sufficient for the foreseeable future, operating losses could significantly reduce our remaining cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Furthermore, we may require additional capital for the purchase of complementary businesses, technologies or products. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the time and cost involved in expanding production capacity, the cost involved in protecting our proprietary rights and the time and expense involved in completing product development programs. 27 We have a Credit Agreement with a financial institution which expires October 29, 2006 and provides for revolving borrowings of up to $40.0 million at any time outstanding, including a $5.0 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is subject to early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default. In addition, the lender may decide to not extend this Credit Agreement at the expiration of the term. Finally, the Credit Agreement is unsecured and includes a springing lien on substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiary (subject to certain limited exceptions) in the event certain events of default occur under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains representations and warranties, as well as affirmative, reporting and negative covenants, customary for financings of this type. In the event the Credit Agreement terminates early or is not extended, we will not have access to future borrowings in order to fund our capital requirements unless we can find new financing. No assurances are made regarding whether such refinancing can be arranged. If we are unable to develop new enhancements and new generations of brachytherapy products and innovative sutures, we may be unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. Rapid and significant technological change in products offered as well as enhancements to existing products and surgical techniques coupled with evolving industry standards and new product introductions characterize the market for our brachytherapy products and innovative sutures. Many of our brachytherapy products and sutures are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing. These activities require significant capital commitments and investment. If we are unable to raise needed capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to maintain our competitive advantage in the marketplace. New product developments in the healthcare industry are inherently risky and unpredictable. These risks include: • failure to prove feasibility; • time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; • timing and cost of regulatory approvals and clearances; • competitors’ response to new product developments; • manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance cost overruns; • failure to obtain customer acceptance and payment; • customer demands for retrofits of both old and new products; and • excess inventory caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products. The high cost of technological innovation is coupled with rapid and significant change in the regulations governing the products that compete in both the brachytherapy and innovative suture markets, by industry standards that could change on short notice, and by the introduction of new products and technologies that could render existing products and technologies uncompetitive. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhancements to our existing brachytherapy products and innovative sutures. Without new product introductions, our revenues will likely suffer. Even if customers accept new or enhanced products, the costs associated with making these products available to customers, as well as our ability to obtain capital to finance such costs, could reduce or prevent us from increasing our operating margins. We may not be successful in implementing our restructuring initiatives. In August 2005, we began implementing certain restructuring initiatives in connection with our decision to begin focusing on our two main business sectors: brachytherapy and the wound closure and other product lines for the surgical markets through our newly acquired subsidiary, CP Medical. The restructuring, including the closure of our PSP facility in Oak Ridge, Tennessee and the Newton Terrace facility in Buford Georgia, has resulted in (i) the elimination of 23 positions within the Company; (ii) the discontinuation of the Company’s radiochemical activities; and (iii) the discontinuation of research and development activities relating to our plasma separation process technology and the vascular, macular degeneration and breast cancer areas, among other things. The expected benefits from these initiatives are subject to many estimates and assumptions. If these assumptions are not realized, or if other unforeseen events occur, the initiatives may not be successful and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 28 Our restructuring of operations may not achieve the results we intend and may harm our business. As a result of the restructuring, we have incurred significant restructuring charges and expenses and realized significant pre-tax savings associated with the restructuring. We anticipate that the expected net effect of both restructuring charges and savings on pre-tax cash flow in 2006 will be a net increase in pre-tax cash flow. However, the implementation of our restructuring initiatives may place a strain on our managerial, operational, financial, employee and other resources. If we experience difficulties in carrying out the restructuring initiatives we may not achieve the cost savings anticipated and may incur greater expenses than expected. Item 