Item 1A. Risk Factors We require substantial financing to meet our working capital requirements and we have no access to such financing. Although we completed a debt restructuring during 2008, which reduced our debt, the restructuring did not affect the factors that impacted our business prior to the debt restructuring. Our senior lender has no obligation to provide us with financing and, because the senior lender has a lien on all of our assets as well as our continuing losses and negative cash flow from operations, we are unable to obtain financing from other sources. We incurred losses from operations and negative cash flow from operations prior to the worldwide economic downturn, and the downturn can accentuate our business and financial problems. As a result, our only source for funding is cash flow from operations and we cannot be certain that we will generate the necessary cash from our operations to enable us to pay our obligations, including our obligations under existing debt agreements. To the extent that either our operations do not generate sufficient funds to cover our expenses or make the required payments on our debt, it may be necessary for us to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We may not be able to replace the significant decline in sales to British Telecommunications which resulted in our losses for 2008 and 2007. Our sales to British Telecommunications and its systems integrators have declined significantly, from $20,313,000 in 2006 to $12,504,000 in 2007 to $10,296,000 in 2008, a decline of approximately 38.4% from 2006 to 2007 and a further 17.7% from 2007 to 2008. We were not able to generate sufficient other business to offset this decline in sales, with the result that we sustained net losses from continuing operations before extraordinary gain and discontinued operations of approximately $2,352,000 in 2008 and $2,223,000 in 2007. We are still selling products to British Telecommunications at the reduced level, and we cannot assure you that sales to British Telecommunications will not continue to decline. Because of both the product mix and the currency fluctuations described below, our gross margin on sales to British Telecommunications and its systems integrators declined in both 2008 and 2007. Our overall gross margin declined from 33% in 2006 to 29% in 2007 to 21% in 2008. Unless we are able to increase our sales and gross margin to British Telecommunications or sell products to new customers, we will not be able to operate at a profit. We cannot assure you that we will be able to improve either our sales to British Telecommunications or our margins on those sales or find other customers for our products. If British Telecommunications and its systems integrators do not increase their purchases from us or if we are not able to increase our margins on sales to these customers, it may be necessary for us to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. Because a significant percentage of our sales are made in currencies other than the United States dollars, our sales and the results of our operations are affected by currency fluctuations. Because our financial statements are denominated in United States dollars and our sales in the international market, particularly the United Kingdom and Mexico, are paid in the local currency, our sales are affected by fluctuations in the currency rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the British pound and the Mexican peso. The recent strengthening of the United States dollar verses the pound and the peso has translated into a lower sales prices where the purchase price of goods is paid in a foreign currency. This decline in revenue also results in a lower gross margin and an increase in our net loss. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph relating to our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our financial statements. Because of our stockholders’ deficit of $16,044,000, our net loss from continuing operations before extraordinary gain and discontinued operations of $2,352,000 for 2008, our limited working capital and the absence of any source of financing, our accounting firm included in its report an explanatory paragraph about our ability to continue as a going concern. Page 6 of 29 Our copper connection/protection equipment is designed to meet specific market factors and the requirements of British Telecommunications, which may not continue. All products sold to British Telecommunications and to its systems integrators are connection/protection products. These sales to British Telecommunications and its system integrators were $10,296,000, representing 47% of our connection/protection products and 39% of total sales for 2008, $12,504,000, representing 55% of connection/protection sales and 45% of total sales for 2007, and $20,313,000, representing 75% of connection/protection sales and 62% of total sales, for 2006. To the extent that British Telecommunications no longer requires products from us or reduces the level of products it and its systems integrators purchase from us, we may be unable to operate profitably, and it may be necessary for us to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. Our sales are dependent upon the requirements of the telecommunications industry. Our ability to operate profitably will be impaired by factors which affect the telecommunications industry generally or to the extent that our customers’ needs, particularly British Telecommunications, change either as a result of regulatory conditions or changes in technology or the completion of projects or the worldwide economic downturn. In the past, we have suffered losses following the overbuilding by the telecommunications industry and the subsequent reduced demand for telecommunications products generally and our products in particular. We cannot assure you that we will not be affected by similar or other industry-related factors in the future. Our business may be affected by the general economic slowdown and decreased availability of credit, which may result in our inability to develop new business and decisions of our customers to cancel or defer purchases of our equipment. We are heavily dependent on foreign sales. Approximately 64%, 67%, and 64% of our sales in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, were made to foreign telephone operating companies, particularly British Telecommunications and its systems integrators and Telmex. In selling to customers in foreign countries, we are exposed to inherent risks not normally present in the case of our sales to United States customers, including the fluctuation in the value of the dollar against local currencies and risks relating to political and economic changes. Because of our small size and our historical financial problems, we may have difficulty competing for business. We compete directly with a number of large and small domestic and foreign telephone equipment manufacturers, with Emerson, which acquired the business in 2004 from Marconi Corporation, continuing to be our principal United States competitor. Our competitors have used our historical financial difficulties in successfully competing against us. We anticipate that our current and historical losses, combined with the absence of additional financing, may continue to place us in a competitive disadvantage. We require access to current technological developments. We rely primarily on the performance and design characteristics of our products in marketing our products, which requires access to state-of-the-art technology in order to be competitive. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot develop or obtain licenses for state-of-the-art technology. Because of our historical financial problems, we were not able to devote a significant effort to research and development, which could increase our difficulties in making sales of our current products and introducing any significant new products. We rely on certain key employees. We are dependent upon the continued employment of certain key employees, including our chief executive officer and our operations and technical personnel. Our failure to retain such employees may have a material adverse effect upon our business. If we are unable to provide our customers with necessary service, our ability to operate profitably could be impaired. Page 7 of 29 Because our stock is not actively traded, you may have difficulty in selling our stock. Our stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, our stock price is very low and there is no active market for our common stock. On many days there is no reported trading, and on those days where there is reported trading, the reported trading volume is often less than 1,000 shares. As a result, you may have difficulty in selling your stock. We do not pay dividends on common stock. The holder of our senior debt has prohibited us from paying any dividends on our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 