Risk Factors Set forth below are risks that we believe are material to our business operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The metals recycling industry is highly cyclical and demand from export markets, which is important to us, are volatile. The operating results of the scrap metals recycling industry in general, and our operations specifically, are highly cyclical in nature. They tend to reflect and be amplified by changes to general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Historically, in periods of national recession or periods of slowing economic growth in domestic or global economies, the results from operations of scrap metals recycling companies have been materially and adversely affected. For example, during recessions or periods of slowing economic growth, the automobile and the construction industries typically experience major cutbacks in production, resulting in decreased demand for steel, copper and aluminum. This leads to significant fluctuations in demand and pricing for our products. Economic downturns in the U.S. or internationally could likely materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to withstand significant economic downturns or recessions in the future will depend in part on our level of capital and liquidity at the time. Our business may also be adversely affected by increases in steel imports into the U.S. which will have an adverse impact on domestic steel production and a corresponding adverse impact on the demand for scrap metals from many of our inland facilities. Additionally, our business could be negatively affected by strengthening in the U.S. dollar or increased freight costs which could negatively impact export sales and a stronger U.S. dollar could also attract imports of scrap or scrap substitutes, reducing demand for our scrap metals. While volatile metals markets have generally been robust for the last four years, we have met surging demand by expanding infrastructure, hiring employees, and generally adding to fixed costs. When metals markets weaken, if we are unable to reduce fixed costs commensurately, we could experience declines in earnings. Declines in earnings could negatively affect cash flows and capitalization and, potentially, the market price for our common stock. Prices of commodities we own are volatile and markets are competitive. Although our goal is to turn over our inventory of raw or processed scrap metals as rapidly as possible, we are exposed to commodity price risk during the period that we have title to products that are held in inventory for processing and/or resale. Prices of commodities, including scrap metals, can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including: • general economic conditions; • labor costs; • competition; • financial condition of our major customers; • access to and costs associated with transportation systems; • the availability of imports; • the availability and relative pricing of scrap metal substitutes (e.g., pig iron) and coke and iron ore; and • import duties, ocean freight costs, tariffs and currency exchange rates. In an increasing price environment for raw materials, competitive conditions may limit our ability to pass on price increases to our consumers. In a decreasing price environment for processed scrap, we may not have the ability to fully recoup the cost of raw scrap metal we process and sell to our customers. New entrants into our markets could result in higher purchase prices for raw materials and lower margins from our scrap metals. 9 Table of Contents The profitability of our scrap recycling operations depends, in part, on the availability of an adequate source of supply. We procure our scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metals to us. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold scrap to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their scrap collection activities. If a substantial number of scrap suppliers cease selling scrap metals to us, we would be unable to recycle metals at desired levels and our results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, a slowdown of industrial production in the U.S. would reduce the supply of industrial grades of scrap metal to our industry, resulting in us having less scrap to process and market. Our indebtedness contains covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our $300 million secured five-year revolving credit and letter of credit facility (“Credit Agreement”) contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions under certain conditions; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into certain asset sales; • engage in certain acquisitions, investments, mergers and consolidations; • prepay certain other indebtedness; • create liens and encumbrances on our assets; and • engage in other matters customarily restricted in such agreements. The Credit Agreement limits capital expenditures to $85 million in the year ending March 31, 2008 (“fiscal 2008”) and $65 million in each of the following three fiscal years after fiscal 2008. The Credit Agreement only permits us to spend up to $100 million for stock repurchases and $50 million per each trailing twelve month period for dividends. Through March 31, 2007, we had spent $50.5 million for stock repurchases. Although we expect to be able to comply with these financial covenants, our ability to do so may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control. Our breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement. In the event of a default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. Our operations present significant risk of injury or death. Because of the heavy industrial activities conducted at our facilities, there exists a risk of serious injury or death to our employees or other visitors of our operations, notwithstanding the safety precautions we take. Our operations are subject to regulation by federal, state and local agencies responsible for employee health and safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”). We have been fined in regard to some of these incidents. While we have in place policies to minimize such risks, we may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for any death or injury that may occur in the future and these types of incidents may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. During fiscal 2007, an accident occurred at our Port Newark facility that resulted in the death of an outside contractor. The incident is currently under investigation by OSHA and may result in a citation, a fine or other claims. During fiscal 2006, an accident occurred at our facility in Newark, New Jersey that resulted in the death of one of our employees. OSHA completed an investigation of the incident in April 2006 and we settled two citations and paid a penalty of $10 thousand. The case was closed in May 2006. We may not be able to negotiate future labor contracts on favorable terms. Approximately 48% of our active employees are represented by various labor unions. As our agreements with those unions expire, we may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements on terms favorable to 10 Table of Contents us, or at all, or avoid strikes, lockouts or other labor actions from time to time. We cannot assure you that new labor agreements will be reached with our unions as those labor contracts expire or on terms that we find desirable. Any labor action resulting from the failure to reach an agreement with one of our unions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The loss of any member of our senior management team or a significant number of our managers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operations depend heavily on the skills and efforts of our senior management team, including Daniel W. Dienst, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Robert C. Larry, our Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer, and certain other key employees. In addition, we rely substantially on the experience of the management of our subsidiaries with regard to day-to-day operations. While we have employment agreements with Messrs. Dienst and Larry and certain other members of our management team, we may nevertheless be unable to retain the services of any of those individuals. The loss of any member of our senior management team or a significant number of managers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The concentration of our customers and our exposure to credit risk could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Sales to our ten largest customers represented approximately 49% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2007. Accounts receivable balances from these customers comprised approximately 37% of consolidated accounts receivable at March 31, 2007. The David J. Joseph Company represented approximately 15% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2007 and 12% of consolidated accounts receivable at March 31, 2007. The loss of any of our significant customers or our inability to collect accounts receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Potential credit losses from our significant customers could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In connection with the sale of our products, we generally do not require collateral as security for customer receivables nor do we purchase credit insurance. Some of our subsidiaries have significant balances owing from customers that operate in cyclical industries and under leveraged conditions that may impair the collectibility of our receivables. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The loss of export sales could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Export sales accounted for approximately 37% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2007, sales to customers in Turkey and China represented approximately 17% and 12%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. Risks associated with our export business include, among other factors, political and economic factors, economic conditions in the world’s economies, changes in legal and regulatory requirements, the value of the U.S. dollar (variations to which will impact the amount and volume of export sales), freight costs and collection risks in some cases (such as Mexican steel mills, where we extend open credit for deliveries other than vessel shipments). Any of these factors could result in lower export sales which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. A significant increase in the use of scrap metals alternatives by consumers of processed scrap metals could reduce demand for our products. During periods of high demand for scrap metals, tightness can develop in the supply and demand for ferrous scrap. The relative scarcity of ferrous scrap, particularly prime or industrial grades, and its high price during such periods have created opportunities for producers of alternatives to scrap metals, such as pig iron and direct reduced iron pellets and others. Although these alternatives have not been a major factor in the industry to date, we cannot assure you that the use of alternatives to scrap metals may not proliferate in the 11 Table of Contents future if the prices for scrap metals rise, if the supplies of available unprepared ferrous scrap tighten, or if costs to import scrap decline precipitously. Our defined benefit pension plans are underfunded. We currently maintain three defined benefit pension plans which cover various categories of employees and retirees. Our obligations to make contributions to fund benefit obligations under these pension plans are based on actuarial valuations which are based on certain assumptions, including the long-term return on plan assets and discount rate. Our defined benefit pension plans are underfunded by approximately $2.2 million at March 31, 2007. We will have to make additional contributions in the foreseeable future to our benefit pension plans. Contributions will negatively impact our cash flow and results of operations. In addition, we contribute to various multi-employer pension plans which cover employees under collective bargaining agreements. Our contributions to these plans were approximately $0.5 million in both fiscal 2007 and 2006. Our required contributions are specified in our collective bargaining agreements. However, we may be required to fund additional amounts in the future if one or more of these multi-employer plans does not meet Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) funding guidelines. Additional contributions will negatively impact our cash flow and results of operations. Our operations are subject to stringent regulations, particularly under applicable environmental laws. We are subject to comprehensive local, state, federal and international statutory and regulatory environmental requirements relating to, among others: • the acceptance, storage, treatment, handling and disposal of solid, hazardous, and Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) waste; • the discharge of materials into air; • the management and treatment of wastewater and storm water; • the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination; • the restoration of natural resource damages; and • the protection of our employees’ health and safety. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable statutes and regulations governing the protection of human health and the environment, including employee health and safety. We can give you no assurance, however, that we will continue to be in material compliance or avoid material fines, penalties and expenses associated with compliance issues in the future. The nature of our business and previous operations by others at facilities currently or formerly owned or operated or otherwise used by us expose us to risks of claims under environmental laws and regulations, especially for the remediation of soil or groundwater contamination. We can give you no assurance, however, that we can avoid making material expenditures for remedial activities or capital improvements with regard to sites currently or formerly owned or operated or otherwise used by us. Environmental statutes and regulations have changed rapidly in recent years by requiring greater and more expensive protective measures, and it is possible that we will be subject to even more stringent environmental standards in the future. For example, in many states there is the potential for regulation and or legislation relating to mercury contaminants. Automobile hulks that are purchased and processed by our industry, including us, may contain mercury switches. We cannot estimate what legislation and or regulation will evolve, or the effects, if any, on our business relating to mercury switches. For these reasons and others, we cannot predict future capital expenditures for pollution control equipment, remediation, or other initiatives that may be required with accuracy. However, we expect that environmental standards will become increasingly more stringent and that the expenditures necessary to comply with those heightened standards will correspondingly increase. We are required to obtain, and must comply with, various permits and licenses to conduct our operations. Failure to obtain or violations of any permit or license, if not remedied, could result in our incurring substantial fines, suspension of operations or closure of a site. Further, our operations are conducted primarily 12 Table of Contents outdoors and as such, depending on the nature of the ground cover, involve the risk of releases of wastes and other regulated materials to the soil and, possibly, to groundwater. From time to time, as part of our continuous improvement programs, we incur costs to improve environmental control systems. By way of example, we may decide to install water pollution control equipment or provide for concreting and paving at our North Haven, Connecticut facility to address certain concerns raised by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection in the lawsuit filed by that agency. See “Note 11 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Because the scrap metals recycling industry has the potential for discharging wastes or other regulated materials into the environment, we believe that in any given year, a significant portion of our capital expenditures could be related, directly or indirectly, to pollution control or environmental remediation. Nevertheless, expenditures for environmentally-related capital improvements were neither material in fiscal 2007 nor prior years nor are they currently expected to be significant in fiscal 2008. However, for the reasons explained above, there can be no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. We do not have environmental impairment insurance. In general, we do not carry environmental impairment liability insurance because we believe the cost of the premiums outweighs the benefit of coverage. If we were to incur significant liability for environmental damage, such as a claim for soil or groundwater remediation, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. There are risks associated with certain by-products of our operations. Our scrap metals recycling operations produce significant amounts of wastes that we pay to have treated or discarded. For example, we operate shredders for which the primary feedstock is automobile hulks and obsolete household appliances. Approximately 20% of the weight of an automobile hulk consists of material, referred to as shredder fluff or automobile shredder residue (“ASR”) which remains after the segregation of ferrous and saleable non-ferrous metals. State and federal environmental regulations require that we test ASR to determine if it is classified as hazardous/TSCA waste before disposing of it off-site in permitted landfills. Our other waste streams are subject to similar requirements. Additionally, we employ significant source control programs to ensure to the fullest extent possible that contaminants do not enter our source stream. We can give no assurance, however, that such contaminants will be successfully removed from our source streams and resultant recycling by-products. As a result, our waste streams may, from time to time, be classified as a hazardous/TSCA waste in which case we may incur higher costs for disposal. Pre-transaction reviews of sites that we have acquired from others and environmental assessments of our operating sites conducted by independent environmental consulting firms have revealed that some soil, surface water and/or groundwater contamination, including various metals, arsenic, petrochemical byproducts, waste oils, polychlorinated biphenyls and volatile organic compounds, is present at certain of our operating sites. Based on our review of these reports, we believe that it is likely that contamination at varying levels may exist at some of our sites, and we anticipate that some of our sites could require investigation, monitoring and remediation in the future. Moreover, the costs of such remediation could be material. The existence of contamination at some of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to sell our properties, and of sites that we have acquired from others, will generally require us to incur significant costs to take advantage of selling opportunities. We may have potential Superfund liability. Certain of our subsidiaries have received notices from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”), state agencies or third parties that the subsidiary has been identified as potentially responsible for the cost of investigation and cleanup of landfills or other sites where the subsidiary’s material was shipped. In most cases, many other parties are also named as potentially responsible parties. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”) enables USEPA and state agencies to recover from owners, operators, generators and transporters the cost of investigation and cleanup of sites which pose serious threats to the environment or public health. In certain circumstances, a potentially responsible party can be held jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup. In other cases, a party who is liable may only be liable for a divisible share. Liability can be imposed even if the party shipped materials in a lawful manner at the time of shipment and the liability 13 Table of Contents for investigation and cleanup costs can be significant, particularly in cases where joint and several liability may be imposed. CERCLA, including the Superfund Recycling Equity Act of 1999, limits the exposure of scrap metal recyclers for sales of certain recyclable material under certain circumstances. However, the recycling defense is subject to conducting reasonable care evaluations of current and potential consumers. Because CERCLA can be imposed retroactively on shipments that occurred many years ago, and because USEPA and state agencies are still discovering sites that present problems to public heath or the environment, we can provide no assurance that we will not become liable in the future for significant costs associated with investigation and remediation of CERCLA waste sites. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 