Item 1A. Risk Factors We require substantial financing to meet our working capital requirements and we have no access to such financing. We had a working capital deficit at December 31, 2007 of $34,513,000. As of December 31, 2007, our current liabilities included $24,373,000 due to the holder of our senior debt. We do not have sufficient resources to pay the senior debt, to pay principal and interest of $13,044,000 which was due at December 31, 2007 on the outstanding subordinated notes that became due on July 3, 2001, or to pay the outstanding subordinated debentures (including accrued interest) of approximately $568,000 which became due on July 1, 2002. The Company has not paid interest on these debt instruments since July 2000, and the holder of the senior debt prohibits us from making any payments of principal and interest (see Note 7). We do not expect to generate the necessary cash from our operations to enable us to make those payments. As of December 31, 2007 we had no other source of outside financing. The holder of our senior debt provided an additional $1 million in October 2007, however there is no agreement for any further funding; and, at present our only source of funds is from operations. To the extent that either our operations do not generate sufficient funds to cover our expenses or the holders of our debt demand payments which we are unable to make, it may be necessary for us to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We may enter into an agreement to restructure our debt which would significantly dilute the interest of the holder’s of our common stock. On February 7, 2007, Cheyne Special Situations Fund L.P.(“Cheyne”) purchased our senior debt of approximately $23,373,000 from SHF IX, LLC. In October 2007 we borrowed an additional $1,000,000 from Cheyne to meet our current working capital needs. This loan along with the existing senior debt matures on May 1, 2008. If the senior debt holder does not extend the maturity of our senior debt beyond May 1, 2008, or if the senior debt holder demands payment of all or a significant portion of the senior debt when due, we will not be able to continue in business, and it is likely that we will seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. We are engaged in negotiations with the senior debt holder with respect to a restructure of our senior and subordinated debt and we anticipate that any such restructure will result in a very significant dilution in the interests of the holders of our common stock and will require the approval of the holders of our common stock and subordinated debt. If we are unable to obtain the necessary consent, we may be unable to effect a restructure of our debt. We may not be able to replace the significant volume of sales to British Telecommunications which resulted in our loss for 2007 Our sales to British Telecommunications, including sales to systems integrators for British Telecommunication, have declined significantly, from $20,313,000 in 2006 to $12,504,000 in 2007, a decline of approximately 38.4%. We were not able to offset this decline in sales, and, principally because of this decline in sales, we sustained a net loss from continuing operations of approximately $2,223,000 in 2007, as compared with net income from continuing operations of approximately $2,511,000 in 2006. We are continuing to operate at a loss. We are still selling products to British Telecommunications at the reduced level. Further, the sales that we are making to British Telecommunication generate a lower gross margin than sales to this customer in 2006. Unless we are able to increase our sales to British Telecommunications or sell products to new customers, we will not be able to operate at a profit. We cannot assure you that we will be able to improve either our sales to British Telecommunications or our margins on those sales or find other customers for our products. If British Telecommunications and its systems integrators do not increase their purchases from us or if we are not able to increase our margins on sales to these customers, it may be necessary for us to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. Page 6 of 29 Our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph relating to our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our financial statements. Because of our stockholders’ deficit of $30,527,000, our working capital deficit of $34,513,000 as of December 31, 2007, our net loss for 2007, and our dependence upon the continued agreement of our senior debt holder to defer the maturity date of our senior debt, our accounting firm included in its report an explanatory paragraph about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our sales in our copper connection/protection segment are based on specific market factors and the requirements of British Telecommunications, which may not continue. Total sales to British Telecommunications, consisting of direct sales and sales to systems integrators for British Telecommunications (including Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe LTD), were $12,504,000 (45% of sales) for 2007, $20,313,000 (62% of sales) for 2006, and $14,046,000 (50% of sales) for 2005. These were sales of copper connection and protection products . To the extent that British Telecommunications no longer requires products from us, we may be unable to operate profitably, and it may be necessary for us to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. Our sales are dependent upon the requirements of the telecommunications industry. Our ability to operate profitably will be impaired by any factors which affect the telecommunications industry generally or to the extent that our customers’ needs, particularly British Telecommunications, change either as a result of regulatory conditions or changes in technology or the completion of projects which require our products. In the past, we have suffered losses following the overbuilding by the telecommunications industry and the subsequent reduced demand for telecommunications products generally and our products in particular. We cannot assure you that we will not be affected by similar or other industry-related factors in the future. We are heavily dependent on foreign sales. Approximately 48% of our sales in 2007, 63% of our sales in 2006, and 52% of our sales in 2005, were made to foreign telephone operating companies, particularly British Telecommunications and its systems integrators. In selling to customers in foreign countries, we are exposed to inherent risks not normally present in the case of our sales to United States customers, including risks relating to political and economic changes, including the decline in the value of the dollar against other major currencies. Furthermore, our historical financial condition has impaired and may continue to impair our ability to generate new business in the international market as potential customers express concern about our ability to perform. Because of our small size and our historical financial problems, we may have difficulty competing for business. We compete directly with a number of large and small domestic and foreign telephone equipment manufacturers, with Emerson, which acquired the business in 2004 from Marconi Corporation, continuing to be our principal United States competitor. Our competitors have used our historical financial difficulties in successfully competing against us. We anticipate that our working capital deficit and our current and historical losses, combined with the absence of financing, may continue to place us in a competitive disadvantage. We require access to current technological developments. We rely primarily on the performance and design characteristics of our products in marketing our products, which requires access to state-of-the-art technology in order to be competitive. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot develop or obtain licenses for state-of-the-art technology. Because of our historical financial problems, we were not able to devote a significant effort to research and development, which could increase our difficulties in making sales of our current products and introducing any significant new products. We rely on certain key employees. We are dependent upon the continued employment of certain key employees, including our chief executive officer and our operations and technical personnel. Our failure to retain such employees may have a material adverse effect upon our business. If we are unable to provide our customers with necessary service, our ability to operate profitably could be impaired. Page 7 of 29 Because our stock is subject to the penny stock rules, our stockholders may have difficulty in selling our stock. Because our stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and our stock price is very low, our stock is subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell our stock to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. These rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell any common stock they may own. We do not pay dividends on common stock. The holder of our senior debt has prohibited us from paying any dividends on our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 