Item 1A. Risk Factors There are risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We Are Subject to Interest Rate Risk Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic and credit market conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could not only influence the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates earned on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates earned on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our management of interest rate risk. We Are Subject to Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic or credit market conditions in the markets where we operate as well as the State of New York and the entire United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic or credit market conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. We are also subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against us. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 32.5% of our loan and lease portfolio consisted of commercial loans and leases net of unearned income. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than conventional residential real estate loans or most consumer loans. Commercial loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for credit losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loans and Leases” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to commercial loans and leases. Our Allowance for Credit Losses May Be Insufficient We maintain an allowance for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses incurred within the existing portfolio of loans and leases. The allowance is necessary to provide for estimated credit losses and risks inherent in the loan and lease portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan and lease portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan and lease portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a significant degree of subjectivity and requires us to make estimates of current credit risks, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for credit losses. These increases in the allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Asset Quality and the Allowance for Credit Losses” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses. Our Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic Conditions in Central New York Our profitability depends significantly on the general economic conditions of Central New York and the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Central New York counties of Cortland, Erie, Madison, Oneida, Onondaga and Oswego. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities or credit markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets where we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe and sound practices. • The ability to maintain high asset quality. • The ability to expand our market position. • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors. • Customer satisfaction with our level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. • Our ability to upgrade and acquire technology and information systems to support the sales and service of deposit and loan products. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision We are subject to extensive federal regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for areas warranting changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, private lawsuits, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Business, which is located elsewhere in this report, for further discussion. Compliance with the Recently Enacted Dodd-Frank Act Will Increase Our Regulatory Compliance Burdens, and May Increase Our Operating Costs and/or Adversely Impact Our Earnings and/or Capital Ratios On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial-services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new federal CFPB, tightens capital standards, imposes clearing and margining requirements on many derivatives activities, and generally increases oversight and regulation of financial institutions and financial activities. The CFPB will begin operations on July 21, 2011. It will have broad authority to write regulations regarding consumer financial products and services. These regulations will apply to numerous types of entities, including insured depository institutions such as the Bank. Such regulations will not be proposed until the CFPB begins operations. It is impossible to predict at this time the content or number of such regulations. 8 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act also requires depository institution holding companies with assets greater than $500 million to be subject to the same capital requirements as insured depository institutions, meaning, for instance, that such holding companies will no longer be able to count trust preferred securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 as Tier 1 capital. Holding companies with total consolidated assets of less than $15 billion will be allowed to continue to count securities, including trust preferred securities, issued before May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 capital if the securities qualified as Tier 1 capital on that date. Holding companies with total consolidated assets of $15 billion or greater will be required to phase out existing trust preferred and other non-qualifying securities from Tier 1 capital over a 3-year period beginning on January 1, 2013. In addition to the self-implementing provisions of the statute, the Dodd-Frank Act calls for over 200 administrative rulemakings by various federal agencies to implement various parts of the legislation. While some rules have been finalized and/or issued in proposed form, many have yet to be proposed. It is impossible to predict when all such additional rules will be issued or finalized, and what the content of such rules will be. We will have to apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and/or our ability to conduct business. We Cannot Predict the Effect On Our Operations of Any Future Legislative or Regulatory Initiatives We cannot predict what, if any, additional legislative or regulatory initiatives any governmental entity may undertake in the future, and what, if any, effects such initiatives may have on our operations. The U.S. federal and state governments and many foreign governments have taken or are considering extraordinary actions in response to the worldwide financial crisis and the severe decline in the global economy. Recently, for example, the U.S. Congress and President Obama have expressed an intent to pass legislation to reform the system of government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. At this time, there is no certainty that such legislation will be introduced or passed. There can be no assurance that the enactment or adoption of any such initiative will be effective at dealing with the ongoing economic crisis or will have the effect of improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that any such initiative will not have adverse consequences to us. A Change to the Conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and Related Actions, Along with Any Changes in Laws and Regulations Affecting the Relationship Between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Federal Government, Could Adversely Affect Our Business There continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the future of GSEs Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including whether they both will continue to exist in their current form. We sell the majority of our residential mortgages to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Federal Home Loan Bank. Our ability to sell our residential mortgages into the secondary market is an important part of our overall interest rate risk, liquidity risk and capital management strategies. Due to increased market concerns about the ability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to withstand future credit losses associated with securities on which they provide guarantees and loans held in their investment portfolios without the direct support of the U.S. federal government, in September 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the “FHFA”) placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship and, together with the U.S. Treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac by supporting the availability of mortgage financing and protecting taxpayers. The U.S. government program includes contracts between the U.S. Treasury and each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that seek to ensure that each GSE maintains a positive net worth by providing for the provision of cash by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac if FHFA determines that its liabilities exceed its assets. Although the U.S. government has described some specific steps that it intends to take as part of the conservatorship process, efforts to stabilize these entities may not be successful and the outcome and impact of these events remain highly uncertain. It is widely anticipated that the U.S. Congress will address GSEs as part of its next major legislative undertaking, although it is not known when, or if, that will occur. In Section 1491 of the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress stated that the “hybrid public-private status of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is untenable and must be resolved” and, further, “[i]t is the sense of the Congress that efforts to enhance by [sic] the protection, limitation, and regulation of the terms of residential mortgage credit and the practices related to such credit would be incomplete without enactment of meaningful structural reforms of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.” Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government, could change their business charters or structure, or could nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. We cannot predict whether, or when, any such legislation may be enacted. 9 Table of Contents The Soundness of Other Financial Services Institutions May Adversely Affect Our Credit Risk We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums and Assessments Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009 and we expect to continue to pay high FDIC premiums in the future. FDIC insured bank failures have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. In December 2009, the FDIC enacted a proposal that required most FDIC-insured banks to prepay their projected insurance assessments for the years 2010 through 2012. In December 2009, we advanced approximately $5.7 million of such prepaid assessments. The prepaid assessments were capitalized as an asset and are being amortized based on the expected period in which the assessment would have been incurred. The actual FDIC insurance expense could be higher if the balance in the deposit insurance fund reaches levels that cause the FDIC to implement additional special assessments or take other actions that result in an increase to the amounts paid by banks under the FDIC insurance program. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. Certain of Our Intangible Assets May Become Impaired in the Future Intangible assets are tested for impairment on a periodic basis. Impairment testing incorporates the current market price of our common stock, the estimated fair value of our assets and liabilities, and certain information of similar companies. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a decline in value of our intangibles which may be less than the carrying value, which may adversely affect our financial condition. If we determine that an impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangibles will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the results of impairment testing on our intangible assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels. Our Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May Subject Us to Additional Risks From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents We Rely on Dividends from Our Subsidiary for Most of Our Revenue We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Business and Note 16 – Dividends and Restrictions in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are located elsewhere in this report. We May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Skilled People Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key human resource talent. Competition for the best people in most activities we are engaged in can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach In Security We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and/or enforcement actions, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Continually Encounter Technological Changes The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological enhancements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Our Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and Shareholder Rights Plan As Well As Certain Banking Laws May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and our stock purchase rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 11 Table of Contents 