ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. These and many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our operations, performance and financial condition. Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. Uncertainty about future economic and political conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. For example, the direction and relative strength of the global economy has recently been increasingly uncertain due to softness in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. If economic growth in the United States and other countries’ economies is slowed, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases or marketing spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. The current global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of certain of our key distributors, resellers, OEMs, retailers and systems integrators, ISVs and VARs (collectively referred to as “distributors”), which could impair our distribution channels, inability of customers, including our distributors, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions, which could negatively impact our treasury operations. Other income and expense could also vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments, impairment charges related to investment securities as well as equity and other investments, interest rates, cash balances, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Political instability in any of the major countries we do business in would also likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot continue to develop, market and distribute new products or upgrades to existing products that meet customer requirements, our operating results could suffer. The process of developing new high technology products and enhancing existing products is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products. Our inability to extend our core technologies into new applications and new platforms and to anticipate or respond to technological changes could affect continued market acceptance of our products and our ability to develop new products. Additionally, any delay in the development, production, marketing or distribution of a new product or upgrade to an existing product could cause a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price and could harm our competitive position. We offer our desktop application-based products primarily on Windows and Macintosh platforms. We generally offer our server-based products on the Linux platform as well as the Windows and UNIX platforms. To the extent that there is a slowdown of customer purchases of personal computers on either the Windows or Macintosh platform or in general, or to the extent that significant demand arises for our products or competitive products on the Linux desktop or other platforms before we choose and are able to offer our products on these platforms our business could be harmed. Additionally, to the extent that 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS we have difficulty transitioning product or version releases to new Windows and Macintosh operating systems, or to the extent new releases of operating systems or other third party products make it more difficult for our products to perform, our business could be harmed. Introduction of new products and business models by existing and new competitors could harm our competitive position and results of operations. The markets for our products are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards and business models, disruptive software and hardware technology developments, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles, price cutting, with resulting downward pressure on gross margins, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products, introduce new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, meet changing customer needs, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate and respond to emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological changes. For example, Microsoft Windows Vista operating system which contains a fixed document format, XPS, competes with Adobe PDF. Additionally, Microsoft Office 2007, which offers a feature to save Microsoft Office documents as PDF files through a freely distributed plug-in, competes with Adobe PDF creation (Microsoft has announced that it will add support for PDF directly in its Office products beginning in 2009 via SP2 for Office 2007). Microsoft Expression Studio competes with our Adobe Creative Suite family of products and Microsoft Silverlight and Visual Studio, Web development tools for RIAs, compete with Adobe Flash and Adobe Flex. Google Gears and Sun’s JavaFX, alternative approaches to building RIAs compete with Adobe Flash and Adobe AIR. Companies, such as Google, Sun, Apple and Microsoft, may introduce competing software offerings for free or open source vendors may introduce competitive products. In addition, recent advances in computing and communications technologies have made the software as a service (“SaaS”) business model viable. SaaS allows companies to provide applications, data and related services over the Internet. Providers use primarily advertising or subscription-based revenue models. We are exploring the deployment of our own SaaS strategies, but may not be able to develop the infrastructure and business models as quickly as our competitors. If any of these competing products or services achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results could suffer. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in our markets. Any further consolidations among our competitors may result in stronger competitors and may therefore harm our results of operations. For additional information regarding our competition and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 of this report. If we fail to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We plan to release numerous new product offerings and employ new software delivery methods in connection with our transition to new business models. It is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful or that we will be able to develop the infrastructure and business models as quickly as our competitors. Market acceptance of these new product and service offerings will be dependent on our ability to include functionality and usability in such releases that address certain customer requirements with which we have limited prior experience and operating history. Additionally, customer requirements for open standards or open source products could impact adoption or use with respect to some of our products. To the extent we incorrectly estimate customer requirements for such products or services or if there is a delay in market acceptance of such products or services, our business could be harmed. From time to time we open source certain of our technology initiatives, provide broader open access to certain of our technology, such as our Open Screen Project, and release selected technology for industry standardization. These changes may have negative revenue implications and make it easier for our competitors to produce products similar to ours. If we are unable to respond to these competitive threats, our business could be harmed. We are also devoting significant resources to the development of technologies and service offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history, including the enterprise, government and mobile and device markets. In the enterprise and government markets, we intend to increase our focus on vertical markets such as education, financial services, manufacturing, and the architecture, engineering and construction markets and horizontal markets such as training and marketing. These new offerings and markets require a considerable investment of technical, financial and sales resources, and 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS a scalable organization. Many of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their larger presence, larger developer network, deeper experience in the enterprise, government and mobile and device markets, and greater sales and marketing resources. In the mobile and device markets, our intent is to partner with device makers, manufacturers and telecommunications carriers to embed our technology on their platforms, and in the enterprise and government market our intent is to form strategic alliances with leading enterprise and government solutions and service providers to provide additional resources to further enable penetration of such markets. If we are unable to successfully enter into strategic alliances with device makers, manufacturers, telecommunication carriers and leading enterprise and government solutions and service providers, or if they are not as productive as we anticipate, our market penetration may not proceed as rapidly as we anticipate and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Revenue from our new businesses may be difficult to predict. As previously discussed, we are devoting significant resources to the development of product and service offerings where we have a limited operating history. This makes it difficult to predict revenue and revenue may decline quicker than anticipated. Additionally, we have a limited history of licensing products in certain markets such as the government and enterprise market and may experience a number of factors that will make our revenue less predictable, including longer than expected sales and implementation cycles, decision to open source certain of our technology initiatives, potential deferral of revenue due to multiple-element revenue arrangements and alternate licensing arrangements. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our new businesses prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights, or disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Third party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Any of these could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, including our source code, from third-party infringers, or unauthorized copying, use, disclosure or malicious attack. Although we defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. We actively pursue software pirates as part of our enforcement of our intellectual property rights, but we nonetheless lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software. If piracy activities increase, it may further harm our business. Additionally, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of our confidential information and trade secrets, including our source code. If unauthorized disclosure of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements with our customers, contractors, vendors, and partners. However there is a risk that our confidential information and trade secrets may be 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations it may be difficult and or costly for us to enforce our rights. We also devote significant resources to maintaining the security of our products from malicious hackers who develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. Nevertheless, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and lead some customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, to use competitive products or to make claims against us. Also, with the introduction of hosted services with some of our product offerings, our customers may use such services to share confidential and sensitive information. If a breach of security occurs on these hosted systems, we could be held liable to our customers. Additionally, such breaches could lead to interruptions, delays and data loss and protection concerns as well as harm to our reputation. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We have in the past and may in the future acquire additional companies, products or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include: · difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; · difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; · difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; · disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; · difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; · inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; · inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; · inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; · inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our integration activities; · incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; · potential impairment of our relationships with employees, customers, partners, distributors or third-party providers of technology or products; · potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company or technology, including but not limited to, issues with the acquired company’s intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or partner issues or legal and financial contingencies; · exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; · incurring significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; · potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS · potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and · potential delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings. Mergers and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition transaction or integrate an acquired business successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition to the extent anticipated. Failure to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively could result in a loss of revenue and harm to our business. A significant amount of our revenue for application products is from two distributors, Ingram Micro, Inc. and Tech Data Corporation, which represented 18% and 9% of our net revenue for fiscal 2008, respectively. We have multiple non-exclusive, independently negotiated distribution agreements with Ingram Micro and Tech Data and their subsidiaries covering our arrangements in specified countries and regions. Each of these contracts has an independent duration, is independent of any other agreement (such as a master distribution agreement) and any termination of one agreement does not affect the status of any of the other agreements. In fiscal 2008, no single agreement with these distributors was responsible for over 10% of our total net revenue. If any one of our agreements with these distributors were terminated, we believe we could make arrangements with new or existing distributors to distribute our products without a substantial disruption to our business; however, any prolonged delay in securing a replacement distributor could have a negative short-term impact on our results of operations. Our distributors also sell our competitors’ products, and if they favor our competitors’ products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. We also distribute some products through our OEM channel, and if our OEM partners decide not to bundle our applications on their devices, our results could suffer. In addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors may be unable to withstand adverse changes in current economic conditions, which could result in insolvency of certain of our distributors and/or the inability of our distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could further negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us, which would increase our credit risk exposure. Our business could be harmed if the financial condition of some of these distributors substantially weakens and we were unable to timely secure replacement distributors. We also sell certain of our products through our direct sales force. Risks associated with this sales channel include a longer sales cycle associated with direct sales efforts, difficulty in hiring, retaining and motivating our direct sales force, and substantial amounts of training for sales representatives, including regular updates to cover new and upgraded products. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. We are a highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our Web site for our development, marketing, operational, support, hosted services and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development, breaches of data security and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in San Jose, California, which is near major earthquake faults. We have developed certain disaster recovery plans and certain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, but a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS Net revenue, margin or earnings shortfalls or the volatility of the market generally may cause the market price of our stock to decline. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including shortfalls in our net revenue, margins, earnings or key performance metrics, changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations, developments in our industry; unusual events such as significant acquisitions, divestitures and litigation, general socio-economic, political or market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. We are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. We generate over 50% of our total revenue from sales to customers outside of the Americas. Sales to these customers subject us to a number of risks, including: · foreign currency fluctuations; · changes in government preferences for software procurement; · international economic, political and labor conditions; · tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries); · unexpected changes in, or impositions of, international legislative or regulatory requirements; · failure of foreign laws to protect our intellectual property rights adequately; · inadequate local infrastructure; · delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; · transportation delays; · the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including consumer and data protection laws; and · other factors beyond our control, including terrorism, war, natural disasters and diseases. If sales to any of our customers outside of the Americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. In addition, approximately 43% of our employees are located outside the United States. This means we have exposure to changes in foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll and other taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. We also intend to expand our international operations and international sales and marketing activities. Expansion in international markets has required, and will continue to require, significant management attention and resources. We may be unable to scale our infrastructure effectively, or as quickly as our competitors, in these markets, which would cause our results to suffer. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the United States. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS where practices which violate such United States laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business. We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. We have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily for the Japanese Yen and the Euro. We regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary based on the judgment factors discussed above. Our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting principles that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting principles are as follows: · software revenue recognition; · accounting for stock-based compensation; · accounting for income taxes; and · accounting for business combinations and related goodwill. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS 123R”), “Share-Based Payment” which requires the measurement of all stock-based compensation to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of income. The adoption of SFAS 123R has had, and will continue to have, a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results. We also adopted FIN 48 in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in an increase to both assets and liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of the beginning of fiscal 2008 and may create increased volatility in our future operating results. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), (“SFAS 141R”), “Business Combinations,” which changes the accounting for business combinations including the measurement of acquirer shares issued in consideration for a business combination, the recognition of contingent consideration, the accounting for pre-acquisition gain and loss contingencies, the recognition of capitalized in-process research and development, the accounting for acquisition related restructuring liabilities, the treatment of acquisition related transaction costs and the recognition of changes in the acquirer’s income tax valuation allowance. SFAS 141R is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of Statement 141R. We currently believe that the adoption of Statement 141R will result in the recognition of certain types of expenses in our results of operations that we currently capitalize pursuant to existing accounting standards and may also impact our financial statements in other ways. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations. For example, our Mobile and Device Solutions business, which will be reported as part of our Platform segment in fiscal 2009, is in an emerging market with high growth potential. We recently announced the Open Screen Project. As part of the project, we will be removing the license fees on the next major releases of Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR for devices. Accordingly, we would expect revenue from this segment to decrease beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Although we would expect this decrease to be offset in time by an increased demand for tooling products, server technologies, hosted services and applications, if future revenue or revenue forecasts for our Platform segment do not meet our expectations, we may be required to record a charge to earnings reflecting an impairment of recorded goodwill or intangible assets. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, by lapses of the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credit, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other domestic and foreign tax authorities, including a current examination by the IRS for our fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax returns. These examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices as well as other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examination. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel our business may be harmed. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of our senior management. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Adobe. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. Our business is also dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented, highly skilled personnel. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Bay Area, where many of our employees are located. We have relied on our ability to grant equity compensation as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining such highly skilled personnel. Recently enacted accounting regulations requiring the expensing of equity compensation may impair our ability to provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. Additionally, the recent significant adverse volatility in our stock price has resulted in many employees’ stock option exercise prices exceeding the underlying stock’s market value as well as deterioration in the value of employees’ restricted stock units granted, thus lessening the effectiveness of retaining employees through stock-based awards. If we are unable to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed. 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the capital markets. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of November 28, 2008 consisted of US treasury securities, bonds of government agencies, obligations of foreign governments, corporate bonds and taxable money market mutual funds. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments, such as structured investment vehicles, sub-prime mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, may pose risks arising from recent market liquidity and credit concerns. As of November 28, 2008, we had no direct holdings in these categories of investments and our indirect exposure to these financial instruments through our holdings in money market mutual funds was immaterial. As of November 28, 2008, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio relating to such adverse financial market conditions. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. We may suffer losses from our equity investments which could harm our business. We have investments and plan to continue to make future investments in privately-held companies, many of which are considered in the start-up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky, as the market for the technologies or products these companies have under development is typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our investment activities can impact our net income. Future price fluctuations in these securities and any significant long-term declines in value of any of our investments could reduce our net income in future periods. We rely on turnkey assemblers and any adverse change in our relationship with our turnkey assemblers could result in a loss of revenue and harm our business. We currently rely on six turnkey assemblers of our products, with at least two turnkeys located in each major region we serve. If any significant turnkey assembler terminates its relationship with us, or if our supply from any significant turnkey assembler is interrupted or terminated for any other reason, we may not have enough time or be able to replace the supply of products replicated by that turnkey assembler to avoid serious harm to our business. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 