ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to the Sale Transaction If the conditions to closing the Sale Transaction are not satisfied, the Sale Transaction may be terminated, which would have a significant adverse impact on us and our bankruptcy proceedings. The Sale Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of various conditions, many of which are subject to uncertainty. The conditions to the Sale Transaction include, among others: Closing Condition Primary Associated Risk • (a) the Bankruptcy Court must enter a confirmation order, which order must (i) be a Final Order (as defined in the applicable Purchase Agreement) in full force and effect and (ii) subject to certain exceptions, include a finding that each of TW NY and Comcast is a good faith purchaser, (b) the Plan must be effective in accordance with its terms, and (c) the confirmation order and the Plan must, to the extent related to certain matters, be satisfactory to each of TW NY and Comcast, as applicable, in its reasonable discretion; The confirmation hearing with respect to the Plan is scheduled to commence on April 24, 2006. There can be no assurances that the Bankruptcy Court will enter the confirmation order or that, prior to the time either purchaser has the right to terminate the applicable Purchase Agreement, (a) the confirmation order will (i) be a Final Order that is in full force and effect and (ii) subject to certain exceptions, include a finding that each of TW NY and Comcast is a good faith purchaser, (b) the Plan will become effective in accordance with its terms, and/or (c) the confirmation order and the Plan, to the extent related to certain matters, will be satisfactory to each of TW NY and Comcast, in its reasonable discretion. • Receipt of certain regulatory approvals, including the consent of the FCC; On May 18, 2005, Adelphia, Comcast and TWC applied to the FCC for the necessary approvals in connection with the Sale Transaction. Various parties have argued that the Sale Transaction should be blocked or approved only with conditions. For example, in various proceedings pending before the FCC, parties have argued for ownership caps and restrictions relating to vertical programming distribution relationships. There can be no assurance that the FCC will grant the necessary approvals or do so without conditions. • Expiration or termination of the On January 31, 2006, the FTC closed its antitrust investigation under 36 Closing Condition Primary Associated Risk applicable waiting period under the HSR Act; the HSR Act of the Sale Transaction without considering or being asked to consider the Expanded Transaction. In the event that the Comcast Purchase Agreement is terminated for failure to receive FCC approval, a notice and filing under the HSR Act will be required with respect to the Expanded Transaction and the applicable governmental agencies may object to the Expanded Transaction. • A registration statement covering the offer and sale of the shares of TWC Class A Common Stock to be issued in the Sale Transaction being declared effective, or the offer and sale of such shares having been exempted from registration pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court confirming the Plan or a no-action letter from the staff of the SEC; We and TWC intend for the confirmation order to provide that TWC is our successor for purposes of section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code and to rely on the exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), provided thereby. If an exemption from registration is unavailable either pursuant to such an order or a no-action letter from the staff of the SEC, however, then TWC will have to file a registration statement under the Securities Act and have such registration statement declared effective. Such a registration statement may not be declared effective on a timely basis, if at all. • Approval of the shares of TWC Class A Common Stock to be issued in the Sale Transaction for listing on the NYSE; In order to list TWC Class A Common Stock on the NYSE, TWC will have to submit a listing application to the NYSE and file a registration statement under the Exchange Act with the SEC. The parties intend that the TWC Class A Common Stock qualify as the successor to our Class A Common Stock’s registration under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 12g-3 promulgated thereunder, and, accordingly, TWC would file a Form 8-A to register the stock for trading on an exchange. Review of the NYSE listing application by the NYSE may not be completed on a timely basis, if at all. • The absence of any material adverse effect with respect to TWC’s business (in the case of the TW Purchase Agreement) and with respect to certain significant components of our business; We expect the closing to occur by July 31, 2006, the date under the Purchase Agreements after which either party may terminate, subject to certain exceptions, the applicable Purchase Agreement if the closing has not already occurred. Prior to the closing of the Sale Transaction, our businesses and the businesses of TWC will be subject to a large number of factors, many of them outside the control of their respective managements that could result in a material adverse effect. These factors include competition, regulatory change, technological innovation, changes in the business and economic climate in the jurisdictions in which such businesses operate, acts of man and God and other risks. 37 Closing Condition Primary Associated Risk • In the case of the TW Purchase Agreement, the absence of an actual change in law or proposed change in law that has a reasonable possibility of being enacted that would adversely affect the tax treatment accorded to the Sale Transaction with respect to TW NY, which adverse effects cannot be avoided by accelerating or delaying the closing of the Sale Transaction or by restructuring the Sale Transaction, in each case in a manner reasonably satisfactory to TW NY and Adelphia (and that such acceleration, deferral or restructuring is in fact implemented); We expect the closing to occur by July 31, 2006, the date under the Purchase Agreements after which either party may terminate, subject to certain exceptions, the applicable Purchase Agreement if the closing has not already occurred. During the period of time between the signing of the Purchase Agreements and the closing of the Sale Transaction, a change or proposed change in tax law may occur that would adversely affect the tax treatment accorded to the Sale Transaction with respect to TW NY. • Subject to certain limited exceptions, the filing of certain tax elections with respect to the Century-TCI/Parnassos Partnerships and delivery, in the case of the Comcast Purchase Agreement, to Comcast, or, in the case of the Expanded Transaction pursuant to the TW Purchase Agreement and the Expanded Transaction Letter Agreement, to TW NY, of a related opinion of counsel regarding such tax elections; and Subject to certain limited exceptions, Comcast and TW NY do not have to consummate the Comcast Purchase Agreement or the Expanded Transaction, respectively, if there has not been a filing under section 754 of the Tax Code by each of the Century-TCI/Parnassos Partnerships and a delivery, in the case of the Comcast Purchase Agreement, to Comcast or, in the case of the Expanded Transaction, to TW NY of a related opinion of counsel regarding such tax elections. In order to make these elections, the 2005 income tax returns for these partnerships must be filed. Before these returns may be filed, however, the tax records for these partnerships will have to be substantially reviewed. We may not be able to complete these reviews and file these tax returns before the date on which the parties would otherwise close the Sale Transaction, and we may not be able to procure the delivery of such an opinion of counsel. • The provision of certain audited and unaudited historical financial information by Adelphia to TW NY and Comcast. Our ability to provide such financial information is limited, and we may not be able to satisfy this condition. See Item 1, “Certain Business and other Developments Relating to the Chapter 11 Cases — Events Occurring During the Pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases under Interim Management and Current Management — The Plan of Reorganization and the Sale Transaction” for a list of certain additional conditions to closing of the Sale Transaction. There can be no assurance that all of the various conditions will be satisfied or waived. Failure to complete the Sale Transaction could negatively impact our business. If the Sale Transaction is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: • having to negotiate a stand-alone plan of reorganization or an alternative sale transaction, which may not create as much value as the Sale Transaction; 38 • having the focus of senior management directed toward the proposed Sale Transaction instead of on our stand-alone operations; and • being required, under certain circumstances, to pay TW NY a termination fee of approximately $353 million and Comcast a termination fee of $87.5 million (or being required, if the Expanded Transaction is terminated under certain specified circumstances, to pay TW NY the termination fee of $87.5 million that would otherwise have been payable to Comcast). If the Sale Transaction is not completed, these risks may materialize and have a material adverse effect on our operations, business, financial results, financial condition and recoveries under an alternate plan of reorganization. Uncertainty related to the Sale Transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainty about whether and when the Sale Transaction will be completed and expectations as to how the business of Comcast and TWC will be operated after the consummation of the Sale Transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business, including through employee attrition (as discussed further in the risk factor below) and increased attempts by competitors to persuade our subscribers to change service providers. This could increase our rate of subscriber churn and the rate of loss of subscribers. It also could have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. The pursuit of the Sale Transaction, the Chapter 11 Cases and pending litigation consume a substantial portion of the time and attention of management and certain aspects of the Sale Transaction will impact how our business is conducted, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Since April 2004, we have been proceeding with a potential sale of the Company and until April 2005, the potential emergence from bankruptcy as a stand-alone company. The requirements of this process, the Chapter 11 Cases and pending litigation consume a substantial portion of management’s time and attention and leave them with less time to devote to the operations of our business. This diversion of management’s attention continued in 2005 and continues in 2006 and may have a material adverse effect on the conduct of our business, and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain aspects of the Sale Transaction will impact how our business is conducted, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are experiencing increased levels of employee attrition and our employees are facing considerable distractions and uncertainty due to the impending Sale Transaction. Because of the Sale Transaction, we are experiencing increased levels of employee attrition and our employees are facing considerable distractions and uncertainty. A loss of key personnel or a substantial reduction in our workforce or material erosion of employee morale could have a material adverse effect on our business, including, but not limited to, our sales, marketing, customer care, product development and management. We have experienced difficulty in recruiting replacement employees with appropriate qualifications in light of the Sale Transaction, and such difficulties are likely to continue. If we are unable to replace employees quickly, we may be forced to hire contractors or consultants at higher rates than the salaried employees whom they replace. The failure to replace our departing workforce quickly or the loss of the services of any members of our senior management could impair our ability to execute our business operational strategy and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 39 If the Sale Transaction is not consummated and we instead seek to emerge from the Chapter 11 Cases as a stand-alone company, we may not be able to arrange for financing to permit us to fund our operations and to satisfy our obligations upon emergence from bankruptcy. In light of the Sale Transaction, we terminated our $8.8 billion exit financing commitment effective May 9, 2005. If the Sale Transaction is not consummated, we may seek to emerge from bankruptcy as a stand-alone company. To enable us to do so, we must arrange for a committed exit financing facility that will permit us to fund our operations and to satisfy our obligations upon emergence from bankruptcy. We may not be able to obtain adequate exit financing upon acceptable terms, if at all. Our income and franchise tax liabilities in connection with the Sale Transaction could be materially more than estimated. The Debtors will be liable for federal, state and local income and franchise taxes as a result of the Sale Transaction. The current estimated likely range of this tax liability is from $430 million to $790 million. This estimated range of the liability, however, is based on incomplete information as a result of deficiencies in the Debtors’ tax records. Accordingly, these estimates are subject to change, and by the time the Plan is consummated, the Debtors’ estimate of their income and franchise tax liabilities, and their estimate of the potential range of such liabilities, resulting from the Sale Transaction may be materially in excess of the current estimates. In addition, it is assumed for purposes of these estimates that all elements of the Sale Transaction will occur during a single taxable year. To the extent elements of the Sale Transaction were to occur in more than one taxable year, the Debtors could have material additional income and franchise tax liability resulting from the Sale Transaction because the tax basis in the property held by the Debtors at the end of the taxable year which includes the Effective Date (as defined in the Plan) would be subject to reduction as a result of the cancellation of debt income recognized by the Debtors. Furthermore, although the Debtors do not expect to hold material non-cash assets at such time and therefore do not expect to be subject to the attribute reduction, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not seek to require basis reduction with respect to the assets then held by the Debtors or assert that the Debtors actually or constructively hold additional assets subject to basis reduction. If the IRS were successful in requiring such basis reduction, the Debtors could be subject to additional income and franchise tax liability potentially in a material amount. Any such increase in the Debtors’ estimated tax liabilities would reduce the amount available for distribution to stakeholders. Risk Factors Relating to the Chapter 11 Cases If the Plan is not confirmed on a timely basis, the value to the Debtors from the Sale Transaction may be lost or materially reduced. The Debtors believe that the value to the Debtors from the Sale Transaction materially exceeds the value of the reorganized Debtors on a stand-alone basis. If the Plan is not confirmed by July 24, 2006 or, in the event of the Expanded Transaction, January 24, 2007, as applicable, so long as TW NY and Comcast have not breached in any material respect any of their representations, warranties or covenants in the Purchase Agreements that have proximately contributed to such delay, TW NY and Comcast have the right to terminate the applicable Purchase Agreement. In such event, the Debtors will not realize such excess value and, under certain circumstances, will be required to pay TW NY a termination fee of approximately $353 million and Comcast a termination fee of $87.5 million. In addition, the Sale Transaction is subject to numerous closing conditions. If the closing of the Sale Transaction is delayed, there is an increased risk of an unforeseen event resulting in the failure of a condition to the closing of the Sale Transaction. Further, there can be no assurance that the Plan litigation process will be concluded within the time frame set forth above. In addition, the purchase price payable by TW NY and Comcast (or only TW NY in the event of the Expanded Transaction) at the closing of the Sale Transaction is subject to customary adjustments to reflect, with respect to each Specified Business (as the term is used in the Purchase Agreements), the net liabilities as of and after giving effect to the closing of the Sale Transaction, any surplus or shortfall generally as of the closing of the Sale Transaction in eligible basic subscribers (as the term is used in the 40 Purchase Agreements) as measured against the projections specified in the Purchase Agreements and any shortfall or, subject to TW NY’s or Comcast’s consent, as applicable, any surplus in capital expenditure spending relative to budget during the period between December 31, 2004 and the closing of the Sale Transaction. As a result of the uncertainties and challenges to the business arising out of the Chapter 11 Cases and the pending Sale Transaction, the Debtors believe that the probability and magnitude of any such adjustments to the purchase price payable in the Sale Transaction increase the later the closing of the Sale Transaction occurs. Adverse publicity and the stigma of the Chapter 11 Cases generally may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse publicity and news coverage relating to the wrongful conduct of the Rigas Family, the criminal indictment of certain members of the Rigas Family, the guilty verdicts against John J. and Timothy J. Rigas and the other circumstances surrounding the Debtors’ Chapter 11 filing as well as the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases has negatively impacted our efforts to maintain our existing customer base, obtain new customers, maintain our relationships with vendors and retain employees, as well as reestablish and promote name recognition and a positive image. In addition, the effect, if any, that reorganization proceedings under Chapter 11 may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. If confirmation and consummation of a plan of reorganization do not occur expeditiously, the Chapter 11 Cases could further adversely affect our relationships with our customers, employees and vendors. Allowance of claims may substantially dilute the recovery to holders of claims and equity interests under the Plan. As of the Bar Date, approximately 17,000 proofs of claim asserting approximately $3.20 trillion in claims were filed, and as of December 31, 2005, approximately 18,000 proofs of claim asserting approximately $3.78 trillion in claims were filed, in each case including duplicative claims but excluding any estimated amounts for unliquidated claims. The Debtors currently are in the process of reviewing, analyzing and reconciling the scheduled and filed claims and have filed several omnibus objections that address approximately of $3.68 trillion of such claims. Additional omnibus objections may be filed as the claims resolution process continues. Although certain claims addressed in such omnibus objections have been disallowed and expunged, reduced and allowed or subordinated by orders of the Bankruptcy Court, the ultimate number and allowed amounts of such claims are not determinable at present, and the Debtors expect that the claims resolution process will take significant time to complete and will continue following consummation of the Plan. The failure to obtain disallowance of a substantial majority of these proofs of claims would substantially dilute the recoveries to the Debtors’ stakeholders. Risk Factors Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters If court approval of the Government Settlement Agreements is overturned or vacated, we may not be able to consummate the Sale Transaction, may not obtain title to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities and may face other material adverse consequences. The Government Settlement Agreements were subject to the approval of, and have been approved by, the Bankruptcy Court. Our consent to the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action was subject to the approval of, and has been approved by, both the Bankruptcy Court and the District Court. Various parties have challenged and sought appellate review or reconsideration of the orders of the Bankruptcy Court approving the Government Settlement Agreements. The District Court affirmed the Bankruptcy Court’s approval of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, Adelphia’s consent to the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action and the Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement. On March 24, 2006, various parties appealed the District Court's order affirming the Bankruptcy Court's approval to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the “Second Circuit”). The order of the District Court approving our consent to the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action has not been appealed. The appeals of the District Court’s approval of the Government-Rigas Settlement Agreement and the creation of the Restitution Fund have been denied by the Second Circuit. If the Bankruptcy Court order is overturned or vacated, then the Government Settlement Agreements may not remain effective and we may face the risk of 41 indictment by the U.S. Attorney, and the SEC’s claim against us may be fixed by the District Court and allowed by the Bankruptcy Court, which could materially dilute the recoveries of other creditors. Moreover, in the absence of the Government Settlement Agreements, we may not be able to obtain title to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities forfeited by the Rigas Family to the United States and the closing of the Sale Transaction may not occur because satisfactory settlement of the claims and causes of actions brought by the SEC and the investigation by the DoJ is a condition to the closing of the Sale Transaction. Even if the Government Settlement Agreements are effective, we may not be able to obtain title to the Managed Cable Entities. For us to obtain title to the Managed Cable Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail) pursuant to the Non-Prosecution Agreement, the United States must first obtain title to such Managed Cable Entities free and clear of liens, claims, encumbrances or adverse interests of third parties and then transfer title to such Managed Cable Entities to us. Pursuant to the Government-Rigas Settlement Agreement and the Non-Prosecution Agreement, we expect to obtain ownership of all of the Managed Cable Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail, two small cable systems with approximately 5,000 subscribers as of the date of the Forfeiture Order). Upon obtaining ownership of such Managed Cable Entities, we expect to file voluntary petitions to reorganize such entities in proceedings jointly administered with the Debtors’ Chapter 11 Cases. Once these entities emerge from bankruptcy, we expect to be able to transfer to TW NY and Comcast the assets of such Managed Cable Entities as part of the Sale Transaction. Although we believe that title to such Managed Cable Entities will be transferred to us, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Attorney will be able to obtain and to transfer title to such Managed Cable Entities to us free and clear of liens, claims, encumbrances or adverse interests of third parties. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreements, if we are unable to transfer all of the assets of the Managed Cable Entities to Comcast and TW NY at the closing of the Sale Transaction, the initial purchase price payable by Comcast and TW NY would be reduced by an aggregate amount of up to $600 million and $390 million, respectively, but would become payable to the extent such assets are transferred to TW NY and Comcast within 15 months of the closing. Adelphia believes that the failure to transfer the assets of Coudersport and Bucktail to TW NY and Comcast will result in an aggregate purchase price reduction of approximately $23 million, reflecting a reduction to the purchase price payable by TW NY of approximately $15 million and by Comcast of approximately $8 million. We may not be able to make the payments required under the Non-Prosecution Agreement if the Plan is not effective by October 15, 2006. Unless extended on consent of the U.S. Government, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, we are required to contribute $715 million in value to a fund to be established and administered by the United States Attorney General and the SEC for the benefit of investors harmed by the activities of Rigas Management (the “Restitution Fund”) called for by the Non-Prosecution Agreement by October 15, 2006. If the Plan is not consummated by October 15, 2006, we may not be able to make the payments to the Restitution Fund required under the Non-Prosecution Agreement. If title to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail) is transferred to us, our failure to make the payments required under the Non-Prosecution Agreement in a timely fashion may constitute a material breach of the Non-Prosecution Agreement and the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action. Under such circumstances, among other things, we may still face the risk of indictment by the U.S. Attorney, the SEC’s claim against us may be fixed by the District Court and allowed by the Bankruptcy Court, which could materially dilute the recoveries of other creditors, and we may not be able to retain title to such Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities that we expect to be transferred to us (subject to completion of forfeiture proceedings before a federal judge to determine if there are any superior claims). There is uncertainty regarding the amount of our tax attributes and our potential tax liabilities. As a result of the fraud and other alleged improper acts committed by Rigas Management (as explained in greater detail herein in Item 1, “Business — Certain Business and Other Developments 42 Relating to the Chapter 11 Cases — Certain Events Leading to the Installation of Interim Management and Commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases in 2002”), we corrected our books and records for the years 1999-2004. We currently intend to file certain amended federal, state and local income and franchise tax returns for 1999 through 2004 to conform to our corrected books and records. This may entail the preparation and filing of over 3,600 federal, state and local income and franchise tax returns. Although we have begun the process of preparing these amended returns, this undertaking will take a substantial amount of time to complete. We expect that the amendment of these income tax and franchise tax returns will result in substantial changes to the amount and location of our tax attributes (such as asset tax basis and net operating loss carryovers) for federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes. It is possible that the amended tax returns will reflect additional federal, state and local income tax and franchise tax liabilities for these periods that were not reflected on the original returns and that will become payable. In addition, there is currently uncertainty related to our tax attributes and historical tax liability. We recorded reserves to reflect this uncertainty; however, our ultimate tax liability for these periods may exceed such reserves by a material amount. In light of this uncertainty, we expect to reserve a portion of proceeds from the Sale Transaction to fund these and other contingent liabilities. The tax consequences of our settlements with the U.S. Attorney and the SEC, and our acquisition of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail) and subsequent sale of the assets of those entities, are uncertain. The proper characterization for federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes of our settlements with the U.S. Attorney and the SEC, and our acquisition of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail) and subsequent sale of the assets of those entities, is uncertain. Accordingly, the amount of income, gain, loss or deduction resulting from these various transactions is not known with certainty. It is possible that the acquisition of such Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities or their assets, and the subsequent sale of the assets of those entities, may result in income and franchise tax liability to us, which could be material. We expect to reserve a portion of the proceeds from the Sale Transaction to fund this potential liability. Adelphia and several of its subsidiaries failed to file periodic reports for prior periods during which they had reporting obligations, which may create civil and criminal liability under federal securities law and have a material adverse impact on the recovery contemplated by the Plan. Because of record keeping and financial reporting practices employed during the tenure of Rigas Management, Adelphia failed to file periodic reports with the SEC for certain prior periods and thus was not current in its periodic reporting obligations under the Exchange Act during such periods. Similarly, we cannot obtain the data required to produce reliable financial statements for certain of our subsidiaries that also are reporting companies under the Exchange Act. As a result, certain of our subsidiaries failed to file and are unable to file periodic reports with the SEC for prior periods during which they had reporting obligations. The failure to file periodic reports with the SEC may create civil and criminal liability under federal securities law, the result of which could have a material adverse impact on the recovery to our creditors and to the creditors of certain of our subsidiaries. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business The continued decline of our basic cable subscribers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We lost approximately 133,000 basic cable subscribers in 2005, and we expect subscriber losses to continue in 2006. This decline was driven primarily by competitive pressures from DBS providers, brand impairment as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases and the actions of Rigas Management and ordinary course rate increases taken throughout the year. In addition, seasonality issues (college communities, warm/cold weather community migrations) can increase churn and subscriber loss. Also, a significant portion of our subscribers on promotions disconnect their service when the promotion expires. Increases in churn result 43 in higher operating costs through increased service calls, higher customer call volume and added marketing expense. If our subscriber losses are significantly greater than our projections, the loss of such subscribers may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, subscriber loss above specified projected levels would result in a reduction in the purchase price payable in the Sale Transaction by Comcast and/or TW NY and subscriber loss above a specified level greater than our projected levels could result in the termination of the Sale Transaction at their option. Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business by increasing our expenses or limiting our operational flexibility. Various laws and regulations affect our business. Increased regulation or changes in existing regulation may require us to change our business practices and may increase the costs of providing services to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1, “Business — Regulation and Legislation.” The key regulatory risks currently facing us are set forth below: • Pricing. The Communications Act and the FCC’s regulations and policies limit the prices that cable systems may charge for basic service and equipment in communities that are not subject to effective competition, as defined by federal law. Some parties have proposed imposing new regulations on the pricing and packaging of cable services. The FCC has certain cable pricing matters under review. We cannot now predict the outcome of these pricing-related initiatives. • Must-Carry. Cable companies are currently subject to a requirement that they carry, without compensation, the programming transmitted by most commercial and non-commercial local television stations that have not elected retransmission consent. In February 2005, the FCC decided not to expand these must-carry obligations as broadcasters transition from analog to digital transmission technologies. Specifically, the FCC decided not to require cable operators to carry both broadcasters’ analog and digital signals during the transition or broadcasters’ digital multicast services during or after the transition. Various parties are seeking to reverse the FCC’s decision at the FCC, in federal court, and in Congress. We cannot predict at this time whether these challenges to the FCC’s decision will succeed and, if they do succeed, how they might affect our operations. We also cannot predict whether any party will take any additional actions regarding the FCC’s decision or, if parties do take additional actions, how such actions might affect our operations. • HSI. The FCC has classified high-speed cable Internet service as an “interstate information service,” which has historically meant that fewer regulations apply to the provision of this service. The FCC’s classification was recently upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court. The FCC is currently considering whether to impose any federal regulations on high-speed cable Internet service, such as rules relating to customer service, and whether to permit LFAs to impose fees or other requirements on such service. It has also imposed obligations to assist in law enforcement monitoring. We cannot predict the outcome of these FCC deliberations or how such outcome might affect our operations. Cable operators are also subject to other requirements covering a variety of operational areas, such as technical standards and customer service requirements. In addition, many aspects of these regulations currently are the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. There also are ongoing efforts to amend or expand the state and local regulation of some cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks we already face. We cannot predict whether in response to these efforts any of the states or localities in which we now operate will expand the regulation of our cable systems in the future or how they will do so. 44 In addition, we are required to obtain federal, state and local licenses and other authorizations in connection with our offering of communications services. We may not be able to obtain these licenses and authorizations in a timely manner, or at all, and conditions that are unfavorable to us could be imposed upon these licenses or authorizations. To the extent that we decide to offer telephone services, we will be subject to risks associated with the regulation of such communications services by the FCC and state and/or local authorities, as well as the likelihood of higher fees for pole attachments, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to pass increases in our programming costs on to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Programming costs have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, our largest single expense item. In recent years, the cable and satellite video industries have experienced a rapid escalation in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. This escalation may continue, and we may not be able to pass programming cost increases on to our customers due to competitive constraints. In addition, as we upgrade our systems and continue to rollout advanced services such as HD and VOD, we may face increased programming costs. This, in conjunction with the additional market constraints on our ability to pass programming costs on to our customers, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also party to retransmission consent agreements with broadcasters under which we are required to obtain the consent of the broadcasters prior to retransmitting broadcast programming to our subscribers. Broadcasters are increasingly making demands for financial and other concessions in order to obtain their consent, and we may not be able to continue to reach agreements with these broadcasters to obtain retransmission consents on acceptable terms, if at all. We cannot predict the magnitude of the financial effect should we fail to obtain retransmission consents on reasonable terms and be unable to provide certain broadcast programming to our subscribers. Competition from programming distributors and other communications providers could adversely affect the future results of our operations. The broadband communications industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Our cable systems’ video services compete with a number of different sources, principally DBS providers that provide information, news and entertainment programming. In addition, several of the RBOCs have recently announced plans to upgrade their networks and provide video services to consumers, and some have began to offer video service. We also are facing increased competition from larger telephone company competitors as telephone companies, such as Verizon and MCI, SBC and AT&T and potentially AT&T and BellSouth Corporation, continue to consolidate. Our HSI services compete with DSL services and dial-up services provided by telephone companies and other providers. To the extent our competitors are able to bundle the services they offer to consumers with other services, such as bundling video, HSI and/or wireless telephony services, it will be more difficult for us to sell our services to consumers who are purchasing these bundled services from our competitors, as well as retain current customers to whom such competing bundles are available. Many of the companies with which we compete have better financial resources, greater access to financing, more operational experience, better brand name recognition and less extensive regulatory obligations. This competition may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain subscribers, generate incremental revenue through upgrades and selling of advanced services and increase or maintain prices for our services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our cable systems are operated under franchises that are subject to non-renewal or termination. Our cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises that are typically granted by a municipality or other state or local government that controls the public rights-of-way. Many franchises establish comprehensive requirements, including as to documentation, facilities and services, and specific customer service standards, and impose monetary penalties for non-compliance. At any given time, some of our franchises may be out of compliance with such requirements. In many cases, franchises are 45 terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions set forth in the franchise agreement. Franchises generally are granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed. LFAs may resist granting or deny a renewal or transfer of a franchise if either past performance or compliance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate. LFAs often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal or transfer, which concessions or other commitments have been and may continue to be costly. We have a number of franchises that are nearing expiration or have already expired. Although the majority of such franchises are entitled to the 1984 Cable Act formal renewal procedures and protections and we will pursue such renewal procedures, a number of such franchises are not entitled to 1984 Cable Act formal renewal procedures. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 173 franchises (representing approximately 625,000 basic cable subscribers) that have expired, but for which notice of renewal was timely provided to the franchising authority and for which we intend to pursue the renewal protections and procedures of the 1984 Cable Act. However, notice of renewal under the 1984 Cable Act was not timely provided for approximately 27 franchises (representing approximately 44,000 subscribers) that had expired and approximately 28 franchises (representing approximately 61,000 subscribers) that had less than 30 months until expiration and, therefore, were deemed not timely filed under the 1984 Cable Act. If a franchise is terminated or is not renewed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business in the affected market, and if multiple franchises are terminated or not renewed, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate cable systems under franchises that are nonexclusive, which could lead to additional franchised competitors operating in areas where we hold franchises, reducing the potential profitability of those markets. Our cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises granted by LFAs. Consequently, these LFAs can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area. As a result, competitors, including the local telephone company, may build systems in areas in which we may hold franchises. In some cases municipal utilities may legally compete with us without obtaining a franchise from the relevant LFA. Some states, including Indiana, Texas and Virginia, have already passed legislation allowing state-wide franchises for new video service providers on terms less burdensome than existing local cable franchises, although the Texas law is currently subject to court challenge. Other states are considering similar legislation. These overbuilds could have a material adverse effect on our business in the affected market. LFAs have the ability to impose additional regulatory constraints on our business, which can further increase our expenses. In addition to the relevant franchise agreements, cable authorities in some jurisdictions have adopted cable regulatory ordinances that further regulate the operation of cable systems. These additional regulations have the effect of increasing our expenses in operating our business. LFAs may impose new and more restrictive requirements on us. In addition, certain of our LFAs have certified with the FCC to regulate our basic service and equipment rates and have the ability to reduce certain rates and order refunds of basic service and associated equipment rates based on a review of our rate filings and application of applicable FCC rules and guidelines. We rely on the Third Extended DIP Facility to provide funding for our working capital needs, and the failure to maintain access to these funds or the failure to extend the Third Extended DIP Facility, if necessary, could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on the Third Extended DIP Facility to provide funding for our working capital needs, and, therefore, we must continue to comply with the covenants specified in the Third Extended DIP Facility to maintain access to such funds. Any failure to comply with such covenants would constitute a default under the Third Extended DIP Facility and could have a material adverse effect on the Debtors. In addition, the obligation of the lenders to make loans under the Third Extended DIP Facility currently expires on August 7, 2006. If the consummation of the Sale Transaction and the effective date of the Plan do not 46 occur prior to August 7, 2006, we will need to seek an extension of the Third Extended DIP Facility. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such an extension, if necessary, on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are defendants in significant pending litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are defendants in certain significant litigation, described in more detail in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” If any of these proceedings is decided against us, we could be subject to substantial damages, other penalties or non-monetary remedies. These penalties and other effects of litigation, including the significant legal fees and expenses we are incurring and will continue to incur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our participation in such proceedings require the use of a significant amount of management resources, which is likely to continue as we seek to resolve these matters. The continued failure to resolve such litigation could have a significant adverse impact on the availability of our management resources. If the Sale Transaction is not consummated and we continue doing business as a stand-alone entity, we would expect to resume our efforts to launch VoIP in an increasingly competitive and highly regulated market. Our failure to successfully launch VoIP as a stand-alone entity could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In 2005, we completed the technical and operational trials validating our network and operational ability to provide residential phone services using VoIP technology over the hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC) network. We have determined that it is not a good use of our resources to launch VoIP service at this time, particularly in light of the impending Sale Transaction. If the Sale Transaction is not consummated and we continue doing business as a stand-alone entity, we would expect to recommence our efforts to launch our VoIP service. The regulatory status of VoIP, however, is uncertain due to continuing controversy among various parties, especially telephone companies, cable companies and federal and state regulators as to whether numerous telephone service regulations and obligations should apply to VoIP service. This regulatory uncertainty could pose several obstacles to any future launch of our VoIP service. For example, incumbent telephone companies might deny us interconnection rights or make it difficult for us to obtain telephone numbers for our customers. The extent to which these or other obstacles could delay or complicate any future launch of our VoIP service cannot be predicted at this time. In the event, however, the Sale Transaction is not consummated and we continue doing business as a stand-alone entity, failure to launch VoIP could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments or customers’ demand for advanced services, which would impair our ability to compete and adversely affect our performance and future prospects. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments and may not be able to successfully anticipate the demand of customers for services requiring new technology. This type of rapid technological change could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, our cable business may be adversely affected by competition from alternate technologies for delivering video, data and voice services, such as new and emerging wireless and IP-based distribution platforms. Our inability to upgrade, maintain and expand our systems and provide advanced services in a timely manner or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete effectively. Likewise, our business may be adversely affected if new equipment, such as digital set-top boxes or DVRs, or new services, such as digital cable, HSI service or VOD, fail to appeal to enough consumers, are unavailable at prices consumers are willing to pay, do not function as expected or are not delivered in a timely fashion. In addition, if the Sale Transaction is not consummated and we continue doing business as a stand-alone entity, our business may be adversely affected by our delay in launching VoIP service. Further, the introduction of VoIP or other new services would require substantial expansion in customer care service and billing, which we may not be able to provide or which may prove more costly than anticipated. Finally, while we believe that providing bundled service offerings will be increasingly important as new services are provided, we currently have limited ability to provide unified customer care 47 and billing. Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to physical and economic events outside of our control that affect the regions which we serve. We have significant operations in regions that are vulnerable to hurricanes and other natural disasters. Our financial condition and results of operations can be adversely affected by physical and economic events outside of our control that affect operations in these regions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 