Item 1A. Risk Factors If recovery from the economic downturn is delayed, our credit risk will increase and there could be greater loan losses. A slow economic recovery is likely to result in a higher rate of business closures and increased job losses in the region in which we do business. In addition, reduced State funding for the public colleges and universities that are large employers in our market area could have an adverse effect on employment levels and on the area’s economy. These factors would increase the likelihood that more of our customers would become delinquent or default on their loans. A higher level of loan defaults could result in higher loan losses, which could adversely affect our performance. An extended economic recovery could increase the risk of losses in our investment portfolio. We hold both corporate and municipal bonds in our investment portfolio. A slow recovery could increase the actual or perceived risk of default by both corporate and government issuers and, in either case, could adversely affect the value of these investments. If the real estate market remains depressed for an extended period, our business could be negatively affected. A depressed real estate market can impact us in several ways. First, the demand for new real estate loans will decline, and existing loans may become delinquent. In addition, if there is a general devaluation in real estate, loan collateral values will decline. Market interest rates are currently low. If market interest rates rise, our net interest income can be negatively affected in the short term. The direction and speed of interest rate changes affect our net interest margin and net interest income. In the short term, rising interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income, because our interest-bearing liabilities (generally deposits) reprice sooner than our interest-earning assets (generally loans). A large number of bank failures nationwide could significantly increase the cost of FDIC insurance. Since insured depositary institutions, including our bank, bear the full cost of deposit insurance provided by FDIC, a high number of bank failures could put additional pressure on a stressed Deposit Insurance Fund. This possibility could in turn lead to higher assessments that could negatively impact our earnings. If more competitors come into our market area, our business could suffer. The financial services industry in our market area is highly competitive, with a number of commercial banks, credit unions, insurance companies and stockbrokers seeking to do business with our customers. If there is additional competition from new business or if our existing competitors focus more attention on our market, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. Additional laws and regulations could lead to a significant increase in our regulatory burden. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations will result in greater compliance costs and may reduce the profitability of some of our products and services. Both federal and state governments could enact new laws affecting financial institutions that would increase our regulatory burden and could negatively affect our profits. New laws and regulations could limit our sources of noninterest income. New laws and regulations could limit our ability to offer certain profitable products and services or require that we offer unprofitable products and services. This could have a negative effect on the level of noninterest income. Intense oversight by regulators could result in stricter requirements and higher overhead costs. The regulatory environment could cause financial industry regulators to impose additional requirements, such as higher capital limits, which would impact the Company’s earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are none. 8 