Item 1A. Risk Factors If recovery from the economic downturn slows further or recession returns, our credit risk will increase and there could be greater loan losses. A further slowing in economic recovery or return to recession is likely to result in a higher rate of business closures and increased job losses in the region in which we do business. In addition, reduced State funding for the public colleges and universities that are large employers in our market area could have an adverse effect on employment levels and on the area’s economy. These factors would increase the likelihood that more of our customers would become delinquent or default on their loans. A higher level of loan defaults could result in higher loan losses, which could adversely affect our performance. An extended economic recovery or return to recession could increase the risk of losses in our investment portfolio. We hold both corporate and municipal bonds in our investment portfolio. A slow recovery or return to recession could increase the actual or perceived risk of default by both corporate and government issuers and, in either case, could adversely affect the value of these investments. If the real estate market remains depressed for an extended period, our business could be negatively affected. A depressed real estate market can impact us in several ways. First, the demand for new real estate loans will decline, and existing loans may become delinquent. In addition, if there is a general devaluation in real estate, loan collateral values will decline. Market interest rates are currently low. If market interest rates rise, our net interest income can be negatively affected in the short term. The direction and speed of interest rate changes affect our net interest margin and net interest income. In the short term, rising interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income, because our interest-bearing liabilities (generally deposits) reprice sooner than our interest-earning assets (generally loans). The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, an allowance for loan losses is maintained to provide for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect operating results. The allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other outside forces and conditions, including changes in interest rates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control; and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, it cannot make assurances that it will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect earnings. The allowance for loan losses requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Due to the inherent nature of this estimate, management cannot provide assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses, which could materially and adversely affect earnings. An increase in bank failures nationwide could significantly increase the cost of FDIC insurance. Since insured depositary institutions, including our bank, bear the full cost of deposit insurance provided by FDIC, a high number of bank failures could put additional pressure on a stressed Deposit Insurance Fund. This possibility could in turn lead to higher assessments that could negatively impact our earnings. The expiration of the Transaction Guarantee Program may affect customer account retention and deposit levels. The expiration on December 31, 2012 of the Dodd-Frank Act’s modification and extension of the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAG”), which provided unlimited coverage for noninterest bearing deposit accounts held at NBB, may have an impact on NBB’s ability to attract and retain customer accounts and deposits as those customers may consider placing their funds in other institutions and financial vehicles in order to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. The Company and its subsidiaries may be required to place aside additional collateral to ensure the security and safety of customer accounts, including municipal accounts. While the effects of the TAG program expiration are uncertain, the potential loss of accounts and deposits may impact NBB’s ability to make loans to small businesses and individuals. 8 If more competitors come into our market area, our business could suffer. The financial services industry in our market area is highly competitive, with a number of commercial banks, credit unions, insurance companies and stockbrokers seeking to do business with our customers. If there is additional competition from new business or if our existing competitors focus more attention on our market, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. Additional laws and regulations could lead to a significant increase in our regulatory burden. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations will result in greater compliance costs and may reduce the profitability of some of our products and services. Implementation of the proposed BASEL III rules for capital could increase our compliance costs because of the complexity in the risk assessment rules among other things. Both federal and state governments could enact new laws affecting financial institutions that would increase our regulatory burden and could negatively affect our profits. New laws and regulations could limit our sources of noninterest income. New laws and regulations could limit our ability to offer certain profitable products and services or require that we offer unprofitable products and services. This could have a negative effect on the level of noninterest income. Intense oversight by regulators could result in stricter requirements and higher overhead costs. The regulatory environment could cause financial industry regulators to impose additional requirements, such as higher capital limits, which would impact the Company’s earnings. Political stalemates in the U.S. and world governments could negatively affect the financial markets. Political stalemates in the U.S. and world governments could affect financial markets and affect fiscal policy which could negatively affect our investment portfolio and earnings. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our internet banking, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our communications and information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Changes in funding for higher education could materially affect our business. Federal and state support for public colleges and universities in the Company’s market area has been adversely affected by the recession and budgetary considerations. As a result, our business may be adversely affected from declines in university programs, capital projects, employment and other related factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are none. 