Item 1A. Risk Factors If market interest rates rise, our net interest income can be negatively affected in the short term. The direction and speed of interest rate changes affect our net interest margin and net interest income. In the short term, rising interest rates can negatively affect our net interest income, because our interest-bearing liabilities (generally deposits) reprice sooner than our interest-earning assets (generally loans). If there is a significant economic downturn in our region, our credit risk could be adversely affected and result in loss. We do business in a small geographic area, and a large percentage of our loans are made in our market area. If the region suffers a significant or prolonged period of economic downturn, there is a greater likelihood that more of our customers could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to us. This could result in higher levels of credit-related losses, which could adversely affect our performance. If the subprime mortgage crisis spreads further and is not resolved, our business could be negatively affected. Although we have never engaged in subprime lending, the subprime crisis could impact us in several ways. If consumers are afraid to purchase real estate for an extended period, demand for loans for real estate development purposes will shrink and existing loans may become delinquent. In addition, the Company would see a drop in fees earned from the sale of mortgage loans in the secondary market. If there is a general devaluation in real estate, loan collateral values would decline. Finally, since the Company holds many municipal bonds in its investment portfolio, the failure of bond insurers resulting from their investment in subprime lending could negatively impact the value of those investments. If there is little economic growth in our market area, loan demand could suffer. There are some portions of our market area with slow economic growth and limited loan demand. If the number and size of these areas increase, loan demand could suffer. Since loans are the Company’s most profitable investment, this could lead to lower earnings. If the State of Virginia alters its philosophy with regard to providing on-campus housing for students at state-supported universities, the Company’s loan portfolio could be negatively affected. A number of the Company’s large commercial real estate loans are secured with property used for off-campus student housing at two state universities. If the State of Virginia determines that it will provide on-campus housing for all students, the ability of customers to repay their loans could be adversely affected, which could in turn impact the Company. If more competitors come into our market area, our business could suffer. The financial services industry in our market area is highly competitive, with a number of commercial banks, credit unions, insurance companies and stockbrokers seeking to do business with our customers. If there is additional competition from new business or if our existing competitors focus more attention on our market, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are none. 