Item 1A. Risk Factors If market interest rates rise, our net interest income can be negatively affected in the short term. The direction and speed of interest rate changes affect our net interest margin and net interest income. In the short term, rising interest rates can negatively affect our net interest income, because our interest-bearing liabilities (generally deposits) reprice sooner than our interest-earning assets (generally loans). If we do not maintain our capital requirements and our status as a "well-capitalized" financial holding company, there could be an adverse effect on the way in which we do business and on the confidence of our customers. National Bankshares, Inc. and its bank subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If the banks fail to meet capital adequacy guidelines, it could have a material effect on our financial condition and could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, as well as impose restrictions on our business. If National Bankshares, Inc. fails to maintain the status of "well-capitalized", it could affect our status as a financial holding company and negatively impact our eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals. In addition, it could lead to a decline in the confidence that our customers have in us and a reduction in the demand for our products and services. If we are not in compliance with governmental regulation, we can be subject to fines, penalties or restrictions of our business. Our businesses our subject to stringent regulation by federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including Nasdaq). In addition, our customers have a number of complex confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. We have established policies, procedures and systems that are designed to comply with these regulatory and operational risk requirements. However, as a financial services institution, we face complexity and costs related to our compliance efforts. We also face the potential for loss resulting from failed or inadequate internal processes and from external events, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or capital requirements could affect our ability to comply with legal, regulatory or capital requirements could affect our ability to attract or maintain customers or maintain access to capital markets, or could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and lawsuits. If there is a significant economic downturn in our region, our credit risk could be adversely affected and result in loss. We do business in a small geographic area, and a large percentage of our loans are made in our market area. If the region suffers a significant or prolonged period of economic downturn, there is a greater likelihood that more of our customers could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to us. This could result in higher levels of credit-related losses, which could adversely affect our performance. If more competitors come into our market area, our business could suffer. Financial services in our market area is highly competitive, with a number of commercial banks, credit unions, insurance companies and stockbrokers seeking to do business with our customers. If there is additional competition from new business or if our existing competitors focus more attention on our market, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. If the disaster recovery plans that we have in place are not adequate to continue our operations in the event of a disaster, the business disruption can adversely impact our operations. Natural or man-made disasters, such as fires, storms, terrorist or military actions could cause damage to our physical facilities, or could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing or check settlements. In addition, our vendors could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us or the vendors with whom we do business, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are none. 