ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry could negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other foreign governments and tighter availability of credit. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they could have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money to finance operations or obtain credit from trade creditors were to be impaired. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our customers’ ability to purchase or pay for products from us or our suppliers’ ability to provide us with product, either of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. During economic downturns or a rising interest rate environment, the cyclical nature of our business could result in lower demand for our products and reduced revenue. Overall economic conditions and the purchasing practices of telecommunications buyers have a significant effect upon our businesses. As a result, during downturns, we could operate with a lower level of backlog and may temporarily slow down or halt production for a period of time at our facility. Economic conditions that result in higher interest rates increase the cost of new leasing arrangements, which could cause some of our customers to reduce plans or demand extended terms. An economic downturn or increase in interest rates may reduce demand, resulting in lower sales volumes, lower prices, and decreased profits or losses. Our financial performance and market value could cause future write-downs of goodwill in future periods. With the adoption of Statement of Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangibles, goodwill is no longer amortized; however, we are required to perform an annual impairment review which could result in impairment write-downs to goodwill. If the carrying value is in excess of the fair value, the carrying value will be adjusted to fair value through an impairment charge. As of September 30, 2008, we had $2,570,511 of goodwill. Our stock price can impact the results of the impairment review of goodwill. The recent drop in our stock price could cause us to record an impairment of goodwill during 2009. 7 Our Results of Operations Unless we generate significant revenue growth, our expenses and negative cash flow will significantly harm our financial position. We have been profitable since the first quarter of fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. However, we have operated at a loss since fiscal 1990 and as a consequence we have an accumulated deficit of $38.4 million. We anticipate profitability for the foreseeable future; however we are operating in turbulent and uncertain times and we may incur operating loses in the future. Further, we may incur negative operating cash flow in the future. We have funded our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities and borrowings. We will need to demonstrate continued growth in revenues while containing costs and operating expenses if we are to achieve profitability. Our Products and Introduction of New Products We must introduce new products and product enhancements to increase revenue. The successful operation of our business depends on our ability to anticipate market needs and develop and introduce new products and product enhancements that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our products are complex, and new products may take longer to develop than originally anticipated. These products may contain defects or have unacceptable manufacturing yields when first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products could quickly become obsolete as new technologies are introduced or as other firms introduce lower cost alternatives. We must continue to develop leading-edge products and introduce them to the commercial market quickly in order to be successful. Our failure to produce technologically competitive products in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis will seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our products are sophisticated and rely on complicated manufacturing processes. We may make additional strategic changes in our product portfolio, but our strategic changes and restructuring programs may not yield the benefits that we expect. The impact of potential changes to our product portfolio and the effect of such changes on our business, operating results and financial condition, are unknown at this time. If we acquire other businesses in our areas of strategic focus, assimilating these businesses and their products, services, technologies and personnel into our operations may be challenging. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition to these integration risks, if we acquire new businesses, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, and we may not be able to retain key management, technical and sales personnel after an acquisition. Divestitures or elimination of existing businesses or product lines could also have disruptive effects and may cause us to incur material expenses. Manufacturing and Operations Our dependence on outside manufacturers may result in product delivery delays. We have increased our reliance on the use of contract manufacturers to assemble some of our products. If these contract manufacturers do not fulfill their obligations or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. 8 We may be required to rapidly increase our manufacturing capacity to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner. We have limited experience in rapidly increasing our manufacturing capacity or in manufacturing products at high volumes. If demand for our products significantly increases, we may be required to hire, train and manage additional manufacturing personnel and improve our production processes in order to increase our production capacity. There are numerous risks associated with rapidly increasing capacity, including: ● Difficulties in achieving adequate yields from new manufacturing lines, ● Difficulty maintaining the precise manufacturing processes required by our products while increasing capacity, ● The inability to timely procure and install the necessary equipment, and ● Lack of availability of qualified manufacturing personnel. If we apply our capital resources to expanding our manufacturing capacity in anticipation of increased customer orders, we run the risk that the projected increase in orders will not be realized. If anticipated levels of customer orders are not received, we will not be able to generate positive gross margins and profitability. We are dependent upon skilled employees; if we lose the services of our key personnel our ability to execute our operating plan, and our operating results, may suffer. Our future performance depends in part upon the continued service and contributions of key management, engineering, sales and marketing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace quickly. If we lose any of these key personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected or delay the development or marketing of existing or future products. Competition for these personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain or attract such personnel. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain additional personnel with the highly specialized expertise necessary to generate revenue and to engineer, design and support our products and services. Markets and Market Conditions Demand for our products is subject to significant fluctuation. Adverse market conditions in the communications equipment industry and any slowdown in the United States economy may harm our financial condition. Demand for our products is dependent on several factors, including capital expenditures in the communications industry. Capital expenditures can be cyclical in nature and result in protracted periods of reduced demand for component parts. Similarly, periods of slow economic expansion or recession can result in periods of reduced demand for our products. Such periods of reduced demand will harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to the regulatory requirements of the telecommunications industry could also affect market conditions, which could also reduce demand for our products. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to pricing pressure. Competition in the communications equipment market is intense. We have experienced and anticipate experiencing increasing pricing pressures from current and future competitors as well as general pricing pressure from our customers as part of their cost containment efforts. Many of our competitors have more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, financial and personnel resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes. 9 Declining average selling prices for our fiber optic products will require us to reduce production costs to effectively compete and market these products. Market pressure for lower prices for our category of products continues to be strong. We expect this trend to continue. To achieve profitability in this environment we must continually decrease our costs of production as well as improve the value proposition of the products we offer. In order to reduce our production costs, we will continue to pursue one or more of the following: ● seek lower cost suppliers of raw materials or components, ● work to further automate our assembly process, ● develop value-added solutions, and ● seek offshore sources for manufacturing and assembly services where appropriate. We will also seek to form strategic alliances with companies that can supply these services. Decreases in average selling prices also require that we increase unit sales to maintain or increase our revenue. There can be no guarantee that we will achieve these objectives. Our inability to decrease production costs or increase our unit sales could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and evolving standards. The markets we serve are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. In developing our products, we have made, and will continue to make, assumptions with respect to which standards will be adopted within our industry. If the standards that are actually adopted are different from those that we have chosen to support, our products may not achieve significant market acceptance. Conditions in global markets could affect our operations. We source key materials and products globally and as such are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally. Those risks include but are not limited to: ● local economic and market conditions, ● political and economic instability, ● fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, ● tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, ● geopolitical and environmental risks; and ● changes in diplomatic or trade relationships and natural disasters. We cannot predict whether our business operations and reliance in these markets will be affected adversely by these conditions. Our profitability can be adversely affected due to increased raw material costs 10 Our manufacturing costs may be impacted by unanticipated increases in raw material costs during the time span between the cost quotes and actual procurement of raw materials. The impact can be significant for purchase orders requiring multiple scheduled deliveries. Whereas we may be able to approach some of the customers for costs adjustments, there is no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining these adjustments. Failure to obtain price adjustments would result in decreased profitability and/or losses. Our inventory of raw material and supplies may incur significant obsolescence Our market demands rapid turn around from receipt of purchase orders to shipping of the products. We maintain significant inventory of raw materials and supplies to meet this demand resulting in risk of inventory obsolescence. Whereas we anticipate and make provisions for a reasonable fraction of inventory obsolescence, a significant higher level of obsolescence can adversely impact our profitability. Our Customers Our sales could be negatively impacted if one or more of our key customers substantially reduce orders for our products. If we lose a significant customer, our sales and gross margins would be negatively impacted. In addition, the loss of sales may require us to record impairment, restructuring charges or exit a particular business or product line. Consolidation among our customers could result in our losing a customer or experiencing a slowdown as integration takes place. It is likely that there will be increased consolidation among our customers in order for them to increase market share and achieve greater economies of scale. Consolidation is likely to impact our business as our customers focus on integrating their operations and choosing their equipment vendors. After a consolidation occurs, there can be no assurance that we will continue to supply the surviving entity. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of current worldwide financial markets and competitive conditions in the telecommunications market, some of our customers may experience financial difficulties. It is possible that customers from whom we expect to derive substantial revenue will default or that the level of defaults will increase. Any material payment defaults by our customers would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Performance Requirements and Performance of our Products Our products may have defects that are not detected before delivery to our customers. Some of the Company’s products are designed to be deployed in large and complex networks and must be compatible with other components of the system, both current and future. Our customers may discover errors or defects in our products only after they have been fully deployed. In addition, our products may not operate as expected over long periods of time. If we are unable to fix errors or other problems, we could lose customers, lose revenues, suffer damage to our brand and reputation, and lose our ability to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance. Each of these factors would negatively impact cash flow and would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product defects could cause us to lose customers and revenue or to incur unexpected expenses. 11 If our products do not meet our customers’ performance requirements, our customer relationships may suffer. Also, our products may contain defects. Any failure or poor performance of our products could result in: ● delayed market acceptance of our products. ● delays in product shipments. ● unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to replace defective products or identify the source of errors and correct them. ● damage to our reputation and our customer relationships. ● delayed recognition of sales or reduced sales; and ● product liability claims or other claims for damages that may be caused by any product defects or performance failures. Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. We rely principally on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, but these measures may not provide adequate protection. While we seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants, we cannot assure you that our proprietary information will not be disclosed, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Intellectual property litigation could harm our business. It is possible that we may have to defend our intellectual property rights in the future. In the event of an intellectual property dispute, we may be forced to litigate or otherwise defend our intellectual property assets. Intellectual property litigation can be extremely expensive, and this expense, as well as the consequences should we not prevail, could seriously harm our business. If a third party claimed an intellectual property right to technology we use, we might be forced to discontinue an important product or product line, alter our products and processes, pay license fees or cease certain activities. We may not be able to obtain a license to such intellectual property on favorable terms, if at all. Factors That May Affect Future Results 12 The statements contained in this Report on Form 10-K that are not purely historical are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding the Company’s expectations, hopes, beliefs, anticipations, commitments, intentions and strategies regarding the future. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements for the reasons, among others, detailed below. We believe that many of the risks detailed here are part of doing business in the industry in which we compete and will likely be present in all periods reported. The fact that certain risks are characteristic to the industry does not lessen the significance of the risk. The forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Report as Form 10-K and we assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements. 13 Executive Officers The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages, positions and offices as of September 30, 2008. Name Age Position Cheryl Beranek Podzimek 45 Chief Executive Officer/President of Clearfield, Inc. Bruce G. Blackey 57 Chief Financial Officer Cheryl Beranek Podzimek joined the Company in July 2003 as President of APACN. Ms. Podzimek was appointed CEO and President of Clearfield, Inc in June of 2007. Ms. Podzimek was previously President of Americable, which was acquired by APACN in June 2003. She served as President of Americable from 2002 to 2003. From 2001 to 2002 Ms. Podzimek was Chief Operating Officer of Americable. Previously, Ms. Podzimek held a variety of lead marketing positions with emerging high-growth technology companies. She served as Vice President of Marketing from 1996-2001 at Transition Networks, a manufacturer of network connectivity products, Director of Marketing from 1992 to 1996 at Tricord Systems, an early stage multi-processor based super server manufacturer, and Director of Marketing from 1988 to 1992 at Digi International, a designer and manufacturer of connectivity products. Earlier in her career Ms. Podzimek held marketing positions for non-profit organizations, including the City of Fargo, the Metropolitan Planning Commission of Fargo/Moorhead and North Dakota State University. Ms. Podzimek holds a Bachelor of Science Degree from Southwest Minnesota State University and a Masters of Science Degree from North Dakota State University. Bruce G. Blackey joined the Company in June of 2007 as Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Blackey has extensive experience in finance and administration and has worked as an independent business consultant and interim CFO from 2001 to the present for several companies. Mr. Blackey held the position of CFO with Tiro Industries a contract manufacturing firm serving the cosmetic industry from 1997 to 2001. Prior to that he held the senior financial position with Conwed Plastics, a manufacturer of plastic netting from 1988 to 1997. Mr. Blackey holds a Bachelors of Science degree in Business Administration and Accounting from the University of Minnesota business school, now known as the Carlson School of Management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 