ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the risks or uncertainties discussed below and elsewhere in this report occur, including, but not limited to, the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this report, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we presently deem to be immaterial could also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Board of Directors and team of management have recently changed, and our failure to successfully adapt to these changes, a failure by our new management team to successfully manage our operations, and/or our inability to fill vacant key management positions may adversely affect our business. At the conclusion of Sellers Capital LLC’s consent solicitation, we seated four new Directors on our Board of Directors on January 28, 2009. Effective January 10, 2009, Harold W. Ingalls and, in February 2009, Arnie Geller resigned as our Directors. These transitions could create uncertainty among our employees, customers, partners and promoters and could delay decisions about the strategic direction of our business, any of which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial position. In addition to changes in the composition of our Board, we terminated Mr. Geller as our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board and appointed Christopher J. Davino, one of our new Directors, as our interim President and Chief Executive Officer on January 28, 2009. Other recent key management changes include Mr. Ingalls’ resignation as our Chief Financial Officer and Tom Zaller’s departure as our Vice President of Exhibitions. In addition, Kelli L. Kellar notified us of her intention to resign as our Chief Accounting Officer as of May 15, 2009. Any failure of our management to work together to effectively manage our operations, our inability to hire a permanent Chief Executive Officer, a new Chief Financial Officer, a new Chief Accounting Officer and other key management, and any failure to effectively integrate our new management into our controls, systems and procedures may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills and efforts of our new management team. If we lose the services of any of our current senior executive officers and key employees, our ability to fulfill our business objectives could be seriously harmed, in turn adversely affecting our business and operating results. The current economic slowdown and disruptions in the financial markets may have a negative impact on our revenues and make it difficult for us to obtain financing to operate our business. Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending for our exhibitions. Discretionary consumer spending is impacted by higher levels of unemployment, fuel prices, weakness in the housing markets, recession, higher consumer debt levels, declines in consumer confidence in future economic conditions, higher tax rates, higher interest rates, and other adverse economic conditions. The economic slowdown, and other factors that cause consumers to reduce their discretionary spending to a point where attendance at our exhibitions declines, negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. The current economic turmoil that continues in the financial markets and in the housing markets has resulted in declines in consumer confidence and spending, extreme volatility in securities prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability and declining valuations of many investments. If the national or global economy or credit market conditions in general were to deteriorate further in the future, it is possible that such changes could put additional negative pressure on discretionary consumer spending and other consumer purchasing habits, which would adversely affect our operating results and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing to operate our business. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our cash flows from operations may not improve sufficiently to finance our ongoing operations or to make investments necessary for future growth without the need for additional financing. We can provide no assurances that our cash flow from operations will improve sufficiently to finance our ongoing operations or to make investments necessary for future growth. During fiscal 2009, we incurred a net loss of $10,022,000, including a net loss of $8,207,000 in the fourth quarter. Our cash balance was approximately $4,500,000 as of February 28, 2009. As of February 28, 2009, our available borrowings were $0 under our revolving credit facility with Bank of America, and as of May 7, 2009, we anticipate we will not have access to our revolving credit facility, due to our recent financial performance. On May 6, 2009, we executed an agreement to receive $12,000,000 in financing from Sellers Capital Master Fund, Ltd., our largest shareholder. The closing of the financing is subject to customary closing conditions. If the financing with Sellers Capital closes, we believe we will have sufficient funds to continue operations for a period of least 12 months and we currently expect that our cash flows from operations will improve during that period. However, there can be no assurance that our cash flows from operations will improve sufficiently during the next 12 months to fund our ongoing operations beyond that time. We might need to raise additional financing at or around the end of that period, which might not be available to us or might only be available to us on terms that are not favorable if market conditions do not improve. If we are unable to sufficiently improve our financial performance or obtain financing if and when we may need it, we may not be able to continue operations. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Our inability to develop new exhibitions could seriously harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our new exhibitions include the “Dialog in the Dark,” “Star Trek” and “Sports Immortals” exhibitions. In addition, we recently opened human anatomy and Titanic exhibitions at the Luxor Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada, which is still a new venue. If we are unable to develop these or other new lines of exhibitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Our exhibition business is sensitive to public tastes. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer preferences, demand for our exhibitions could decrease. Our ability to generate revenue from our exhibitions is highly sensitive to changes in public tastes. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and to offer appealing exhibitions. We typically book each exhibition venue several months in advance of an exhibition’s opening and incur certain upfront costs prior to our receiving any operating income. Therefore, if the public is not receptive to a particular exhibition or location, we could incur a loss depending on the amount of the incurred costs. Moreover, if we are not able to anticipate, identify or react to changes in public tastes, reduced demand for our exhibitions will likely result. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed. Like many other companies that make entertainment available to the public, we utilize significant resources to advertise, promote and provide marketing support for our exhibitions. For the periods ending February 28, 2007, February 29, 2008 and February 28, 2009, we incurred marketing and advertising expense of $918,000, $5,704,000 and $5,951,000, respectively. We are also party to agreements pursuant to which we engage third-parties to assist us in the production, design, promotion and marketing of our exhibitions. If our advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns are not successful, or if we are not able to continue to secure on commercially reasonable terms the assistance of third-parties in our marketing and promotional activities, our results of operations will be harmed. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Events harming our reputation could adversely affect our business prospects, financial results and stock price. We are dependent on our reputation. Events that can damage our reputation include, but are not limited to, legal violations, actual or perceived ethical problems, particularly related to our human anatomy exhibitions, actual or perceived poor employee relations, actual or perceived poor customer service, venue appearance or operational issues, or events outside of our control that generate negative publicity with respect to our company. Any event that has the potential to negatively impact our reputation could negatively affect our business prospects, financial results and stock price. We are dependent upon our ability to lease exhibition venues. If we are unable to lease exhibition venues on acceptable terms, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We require access to exhibition venues owned or leased by third-parties to conduct our exhibitions. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to utilize such venues on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to obtain new venue locations on favorable terms depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, including but not limited to, international, national and local business conditions as well as competition from other promoters and exhibitions. If we are not able to secure exhibition locations on commercially reasonable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We may not be granted a salvage award that is commensurate with the efforts we have expended to recover items from the Titanic wreck site or may be prohibited from exhibiting certain of the Titanic artifacts already under our control. In November 2007, we filed a motion with the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Northern Division seeking a trial to determine a salvage award to compensate us for our efforts in recovering certain items from the wreck of the Titanic. Although the trial to determine the salvage award has not yet been held, the court has already ruled that it would likely not give us title to certain of the artifacts. As a result, the outcome of the salvage award trial is uncertain. It is possible that we may not be granted a salvage award that is commensurate with our recovery efforts. It is also possible that the court will take possession of certain of the Titanic artifacts we have already recovered, which may make it difficult for us to conduct future Titanic exhibitions in the same manner as we presently conduct such exhibitions. A negative decision by the court on our motion could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct Titanic exhibitions, which could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our Salvor-in-Possession rights to the Titanic wreck and wreck site, our Titanic exhibitions could face increased competition and we could lose the right to exhibit certain Titanic artifacts. On January 31, 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit recognized that we are the exclusive Salvor-in-Possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. Our Salvor-in-Possession status enables us to prevent third-parties from salvaging the Titanic wreck and wreck site and from interfering with our rights to salvage the wreck and wreck site. To maintain our Salvor-in-Possession rights, we must maintain a presence over the wreck site as interpreted by the courts. In addition, we may have to commence legal proceedings against third-parties who attempt to violate our rights as Salvor-in-Possession, which may be expensive and time-consuming. Moreover, the court may not continue to recognize us as the sole and exclusive Salvor-in-Possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. If we were to lose our Salvor-in-Possession rights, our Titanic exhibitions could be exposed to competition and we could lose the right to exhibit certain Titanic artifacts. Either of these outcomes would harm our operating results. Our exhibitions are becoming subject to increasing competition that could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Titanic exhibitions. We believe that our Titanic exhibition business is changing. For example, an adverse ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit left us with non-exclusive rights to photograph and 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements film the Titanic wreck site. As a result of this ruling, other companies can now photograph and film the Titanic wreck site, which exposes us to increased competition that could, for example, result in our loss of future exhibitions or other opportunities, such as documentary film rights. Moreover, it is possible that other companies may, albeit in violation of our Salvor-in-Possession rights, attempt to explore the Titanic wreck site in the future. If any of these companies were successful, we would face increased competition as well as increased costs necessary to defend and preserve our rights. Additionally, the availability of remote operated vehicles for charter from third-parties to conduct expeditions may make it easier for others to gain access to the Titanic site in violation of our Salvor-in-Possession rights. New laws and treaties, or new interpretations of existing laws or treaties, could also have a material adverse effect on our Titanic exhibition business. Any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Human anatomy exhibitions. Our human anatomy exhibitions are subject to competition from other existing and potential human anatomy exhibition companies. If a significant number of new human anatomy exhibitions were to enter the same markets in which our exhibitions are offered or are planned to be offered, attendance at our human anatomy exhibitions could decline and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Other exhibitions. If we are successful in presenting our new exhibitions, competitors may bring similar exhibitions of their own to the market. To the extent competitors are successful at marketing and promoting competing exhibitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Through our co-sponsors, we conduct exhibitions outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks that could increase our costs and cause our profitability to decline. During fiscal 2009, we derived approximately $7,991,000, or 17%, of our net revenue from exhibitions located outside of the U.S. We intend to continue to pursue international exhibition opportunities. Our international exhibitions are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing, training and managing foreign operations; • changing and irregular enforcement of legal regulations; and • political and economic instability. We are also subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our costs and cause our profitability to decline. Our financial arrangements with our foreign vendors have historically been based upon foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which our exhibitions are touring. The U.S. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Certain aspects of our operations are subject to governmental regulation, and our failure to comply with any existing or future regulations could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our exhibitions are subject to federal, state and local laws, both domestically and internationally, governing various matters, such as: • licensing and permitting; • health, safety, environmental and sanitation requirements; • working conditions, labor, minimum wage and hour, citizenship and employment laws; • new legislative initiatives; and • sales, use and other taxes and withholding. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We cannot predict the extent to which existing or future laws or regulations could impact our operations. Although we generally contract with a third-party for various services at our venues, we cannot provide assurances that we or our third-parties are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times, that we or our third-parties will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations or that we will not incur liabilities for violations by us or third-parties with which we maintain a relationship. Our failure or the failure of any of our third-parties with which we maintain a relationship to comply with laws and regulations could also cause us to be subject to investigations or governmental actions that could seriously harm our business. Our business may be harmed as a result of litigation. We are a party to several ongoing material legal proceedings. These proceedings are described below in Item 3 of Part I of this report under the heading “Legal Proceedings” and also in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our current legal proceedings, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. We may be unable to hire and retain the personnel we need and, as a result, could lose our competitive position. To meet our business objectives, we must continue to attract and retain skilled technical, operational, managerial and sales and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these skilled professionals from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives and may lose our competitive position, which could harm our business revenue. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and investors in our common stock could see the value of our common stock decline materially. In addition, the recent trading level of our stock could subject us to delisting by NASDAQ. The stock market continues to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. Such changes may occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations have and could continue to materially reduce our stock price. Moreover, companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action lawsuits. Any such lawsuit filed against us, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which in turn could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the recent trading levels of our stock could subject us to delisting by NASDAQ. Our common stock has recently traded at levels below $1.00 per share. Although NASDAQ has suspended its rules requiring listed companies to maintain a minimum $1.00 closing bid price, enforcement of this rule is currently scheduled to resume on July 20, 2009. Under NASDAQ’s rules, a security is considered deficient if it fails to achieve at least a $1.00 closing bid price for a period of 30 consecutive business days. If our stock price does not improve after July 20, 2009, our stock could be subject to delisting from NASDAQ. If our financial performance does not improve, it is possible that we could violate other NASDAQ requirements. If our stock is delisted from NASDAQ, interest in and the ability to trade our stock could decline, which could have a negative impact on the market value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 