ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the risks or uncertainties discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including, but not limited to, the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this report, were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we presently deem to be immaterial could also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to effectively manage the integration of the Arts and Exhibitions International, LLC properties into our existing operations, it could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have recently acquired the assets of Arts and Exhibitions International, LLC, including the touring exhibition properties “Tutankhamun: The Golden King and the Great Pharaohs”, “Cleopatra: The Search for the Last Queen of Egypt”, “Real Pirates”, and “America I AM”. Due to the nature of the asset purchase transaction, no cash was required to complete the transaction other than transaction costs such as investment banking, legal and accounting fees and the promissory note will be repaid only from revenues derived from the assets. However, integration of these exhibitions into our operations will require significant management attention, and our failure to effectively and efficiently operate these assets could harm our relationships with partners in exhibition community, limit our future opportunities for fee for service arrangements or cause us to incur losses. The restatement of our consolidated financial statements may affect shareholder confidence, may consume a significant amount of our time and resources and may have an adverse effect on our business. As discussed in Note 23 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K and the Explanatory Note above, we have restated in this Form 10-K our consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended May 31, 2012, August 31, 2012 and November 30, 2012 to correct certain errors in those financial statements. The errors related to our historical purchase accounting as it relates to our purchase of the assets of Arts and Exhibition International, LLC, as further discussed in Note 23. While we have taken measures to prevent future restatements we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken since we completed the restatement process will ensure that restatements will not occur in the future. The restatement may affect investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial disclosures and may raise reputational issues for our business. The restatement process was resource-intensive and involved a significant amount of attention from management, and significant accounting costs. Although we have now completed the restatement, we cannot guarantee that we will not receive inquiries from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) or the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (“Nasdaq”) regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC or the Nasdaq as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our internal resources and result in additional legal and accounting costs. Each of these risks described above could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents We cannot assure investors that remediation efforts we have taken to address the material weaknesses in our internal controls that led to our restatement will prevent future material weaknesses. We have identified control deficiencies in our financial reporting process that constituted a material weakness, leading to the restatement of our previously issued quarterly financial statements. We have undertaken measures to remediate these weaknesses. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer from other material weaknesses in the future. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses or fail to otherwise maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, it could result in a material misstatement of our annual or quarterly financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis and which could cause investors and other users to lose confidence in our financial statements, limit our ability to raise capital and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our cash flows from operations may not improve sufficiently to finance our ongoing operations or to make investments necessary for future growth without the need for additional financing. We can provide no assurances that our cash flow from operations will improve sufficiently to finance our ongoing operations or to make investments necessary for future growth. During fiscal 2013, we had net income of approximately $2.0 million and our cash balance was approximately $6.4 million as of February 28, 2013. We currently do not have access to a revolving credit facility. There can be no assurance that our cash flows from operations will improve sufficiently during the next 12 months to fund our ongoing operations beyond that time. We might need to raise additional financing, which might not be available to us or might only be available to us on terms that are not favorable. If we are unable to sufficiently improve our financial performance or obtain financing, if and when we may need it, we may not be able to continue operations as they are currently anticipated or we may be unable to make capital investments needed for our existing exhibits or to develop new exhibits. We have announced our intention to sell the artifacts we have recovered from the Titanic wreck site. We may not be able to maximize the full value associated with title to these artifacts. In August, 2011 the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Norfolk Division issued an Order granting us an in-specie award to all of the artifacts we have recovered from the Titanic wreck since after the Company’s first expedition in 1987. Together with the October, 1993 Order from the French Maritime Tribunal granting us an in specie award to all of the artifacts recovered in our 1987 expedition, we now have title to all of the artifacts we have recovered from the Titanic wreck. Both of these in-specie awards come with certain limitations which govern how we care for the artifacts and how they may be sold. We have recently announced our intent to pursue a sale of the artifacts by auction or privately negotiated sale and our entry into a consignment agreement with Guernsey’s auction house to pursue a sale. We could fail to sell the artifacts in a timely manner or fail to sell the artifacts at or above their appraised value. Our ability or inability to successfully complete a sale of the artifacts may affect our results of operations and financial condition. The sale process will also consume significant management time and Company resources, which may impact our operations. In addition, the announcement by the Company that the sale process will require more time than was originally anticipated may negatively impact our share price and/or our ability to complete a sale on favorable terms. If we do not successfully complete a sale of the artifacts, or cannot complete a sale on terms favorable to the Company, we could be less able to put the artifacts to good and profitable use in the future, particularly in light of the uncertainty created by the sale process. In addition, our stock price may be negatively impacted if we are unable to sell the assets on favorable terms, which may reduce our ability to raise capital that may be necessary to fund ongoing operations. If we do sell the artifacts, we might lose the right to exhibit the artifacts or to use the associated intellectual property, which would reduce our revenues. Any of these factors could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to develop new exhibitions could seriously harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on our ability to develop and execute new exhibitions to complement our existing exhibitions. If we are unable to identify new exhibitions or if we do not have sufficient capital to develop new exhibitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. 14 Table of Contents The success of our businesses is dependent on the existence and maintenance of intellectual property rights in the products and services we create. The value to us of our intellectual property is dependent on a number of factors, including the existence and application of laws in the U.S. and in jurisdictions around the world, the manner in which those laws are applied, and the efforts taken by the Company to protect and enforce its rights. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property by others may reduce our revenues and increase the cost of protecting our intellectual property. The unauthorized use of intellectual property in the entertainment industry in general continues to pose significant challenges. Inadequate laws or weak enforcement mechanisms to protect intellectual property in one country can adversely affect the results of the Company’s operations worldwide, despite the Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property. The international nature of our entertainment business requires us to devote substantial resources to protecting our intellectual property against unlicensed use. With respect to intellectual property owned by the Company, the Company is subject to challenges by third parties. Successful challenges to the ownership of our intellectual property may result in increased costs or the loss of the opportunity to earn revenue derived from the intellectual property that is the subject of challenged rights. The sale of our common stock to LPC may cause dilution and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by LPC could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In connection with entering into the Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (“LPC”), we authorized the issuance to LPC of up to 5,298,330 shares of our common stock and filed a registration statement allowing the resale of those shares. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by LPC is dependent upon the number of shares the Company sells to LPC under the agreement. While we have been unable to sell shares to LPC from the date we discovered errors in our quarterly financial statements until the date we filed the restated financial statements on this Form 10-K, we could sell additional shares in the future. The purchase price for the common stock to be sold to LPC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement will fluctuate based on the price of our common stock. As of May 20, 2013, we have sold 275,000 shares to LPC at an average price of $2.31, and have also issued 158,632 shares as commitment shares under the Purchase Agreement. All shares sold by the Company to LPC are expected to be freely tradable. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of shares by LPC at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We can elect to direct purchases in our sole discretion but no sales may occur if the price of our common stock is below $1.00 and therefore, LPC may ultimately purchase all or some portion of the 5,298,330 shares of common stock. After it has acquired such shares, it may sell all, some or none of such shares. Therefore, sales to LPC by us under the agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock under this offering, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to LPC and the agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. If we are unable to maintain our salvor-in-possession rights to the Titanic wreck and wreck site, our Titanic exhibitions could face increased competition. We are the exclusive salvor-in-possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. Our salvor-in-possession status enables us to prevent third parties from salvaging the Titanic wreck and wreck site and from interfering with our rights to salvage the wreck and wreck site. To maintain our salvor-in-possession rights, we must maintain a presence over the wreck site as interpreted by the courts. In addition, we may have to commence legal proceedings against third parties who attempt to violate our rights as salvor-in-possession, which may be expensive and time-consuming. Moreover, the court may not continue to recognize us as the sole and exclusive salvor-in-possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. If we were to lose our salvor-in-possession rights, our Titanic exhibitions could be exposed to competition, which could harm our operating results. We have recently made changes to key management positions and our failure to successfully adapt to changes in key management, and/or our inability to fill other vacant key positions, may adversely affect our business. During fiscal years 2012 and 2013 our Board of Directors appointed a new President and Chief Executive Officer, added the title of Chief Operating Officer to our Chief Financial Officer, and appointed a new executive to lead our exhibition subsidiary. These changes in key management and the potential for additional appointments could create uncertainty among our employees, customers, partners and promoters and could result in changes to the strategic direction of our business, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial position. In addition, the changes in management have resulted in a higher level of overall compensation for the executive team. Any failure of our management to work together to effectively manage our operations, our inability to hire other key management, and any failure to effectively integrate new management into our controls, systems and procedures may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We believe that our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills and efforts of our management team. If we lose the services of any of our current senior executive officers and key employees, our ability to achieve our business objectives could be seriously harmed, in turn adversely affecting our business and operating results. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and investors in our common stock could see the value of our common stock decline materially. The stock market has recently experienced, and may experience in the future, extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. Such changes may occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. In addition, the uncertainty related to our efforts to monetize the Titanic artifact collection has and may continue to add to this price volatility. These fluctuations, both those related to our company and those related to factors that have little to nothing to do with our Company, have and could materially reduce our stock price in the future. Moreover, companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action lawsuits. Any such lawsuit filed against us, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which in turn could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our largest shareholder is an equity fund, and the plans of this fund could have an effect on our stock price and could result in changes to the strategic direction of the Company. The largest shareholder of the Company is Sellers Capital Master Fund, Ltd. (“SCF”) which is controlled by Mark Sellers, who is Chairman of the Board of Premier Exhibitions, Inc. and Managing Member of SCF’s general partner. SCF purchased debt that was converted into shares of the Company’s common stock in a financing transaction in fiscal year 2010. In addition, it has acquired common stock through open market purchases. In June 2010, SCF informed the Company that at the request of the fund’s investors it intended to return all capital to them. On October 7, 2010 Mr. Sellers informed the Company that SCF is no longer marketing its 46 percent ownership stake in Premier, and further that SCF no longer has a specific time frame within which to sell its stake in Premier. Instead, Mr. Sellers indicated that SCF would retain its shares in the Company until such time as it could obtain what he believes to be a better value for the shares. Management does recognize, however, that if a suitable buyer is not identified at the appropriate time, Mr. Sellers may choose to take another course of action, including potentially selling the shares in the open market or in a privately negotiated transaction or distributing the SCF shares to the fund’s limited partners. The concentration of our equity ownership in an equity fund controlled by a Company director, and the potential that it could sell its blocks of common stock, could have an effect on our stock price and could result in changes to the strategic direction of the Company. In addition, a single purchaser of the SCF block of common stock could also acquire effective control of the Company. Such a shareholder may not agree with the present strategic direction of the board of directors and management, creating uncertainty that the current strategic focus of the Company will continue over the longer term. Our business may be harmed as a result of litigation. We are a party to several ongoing material legal proceedings. These proceedings are described below in Item 3 of Part I of this report under the heading “Legal Proceedings” and also in the “Litigation and Other Legal Matters” footnote to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our current legal proceedings, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. We may have a risk of collection of our revenue from exhibitions presented by third parties. We rely upon third parties to present some of our exhibitions and in many cases those third parties operate the box office and control the sale of the tickets. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will be unable to collect our portion of the revenue from the exhibitions presented by third party partners. Where we are unable to collect these revenues in accordance with the terms of the contract, we may incur the cost of litigation to recover the amounts owed to us and may ultimately not recover the full value of the receivable. 16 Table of Contents General economic weakness may have a negative impact on our revenues and make it difficult for us to obtain financing to operate our business. Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending for our exhibitions, both domestically and in international markets where we operate. Discretionary consumer spending is impacted by higher levels of unemployment, fuel prices, weakness in the housing markets, higher consumer debt levels, declines in consumer confidence in future economic conditions, higher tax rates, higher interest rates, and other adverse economic conditions. The economic slowdown, and other factors that cause consumers to reduce their discretionary spending to a point where attendance at our exhibitions declines, negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. The economic weakness that continues in the financial markets and in the housing markets has resulted in declines in consumer confidence and spending, volatility in securities prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability and declining valuations of many investments. If the national or global economy or credit market conditions in general were to deteriorate further in the future, it is possible that such changes could put additional negative pressure on discretionary consumer spending and other consumer purchasing habits, which would adversely affect our operating results and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing to operate our business. Our exhibition business is sensitive to public tastes. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer preferences, demand for our exhibitions could decrease. Our ability to generate revenue from our exhibitions is highly sensitive to changes in public tastes. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and to offer appealing exhibitions. We typically book each exhibition venue several months in advance of an exhibition’s opening and incur certain upfront costs prior to our receiving any operating income. Therefore, if the public is not receptive to a particular exhibition or location, we could incur a loss depending on the amount of the incurred costs. Moreover, if we are not able to anticipate, identify or react to changes in public tastes, reduced demand for our exhibitions will likely result. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed. Like many other companies that make entertainment available to the public, we utilize significant resources to advertise, promote and provide marketing support for our exhibitions. For fiscal 2013 and 2012 we incurred marketing and advertising expenses of $5.4 million and $4.4 million, respectively. We are also party to agreements pursuant to which we engage third-parties to assist us in the production, design, promotion and marketing of our exhibitions. If our advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns are not successful, or if we are not able to continue to secure on commercially reasonable terms the assistance of third-parties in our marketing and promotional activities, our results of operations will be harmed. Events harming our reputation could adversely affect our business prospects, financial results and stock price. We are dependent on our reputation. Events that can damage our reputation include, but are not limited to, legal violations, actual or perceived ethical problems, particularly related to our human anatomy exhibitions, actual or perceived poor employee relations, actual or perceived poor customer service, venue appearance or operational issues, or events outside of our control that generate negative publicity with respect to our company. Any event that has the potential to negatively impact our reputation could negatively affect our business prospects, financial results and stock price. We are dependent upon our ability to locate effective venues for exhibitions, either in museums or in leased exhibition space. If we are unable to lease exhibition venues on acceptable terms or to partner with museums to present our exhibitions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We require access to exhibition venues owned or leased by third parties to conduct our stationary exhibitions. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to utilize such venues on commercially reasonable terms. We also present our exhibitions in museums. If we are unable to develop and maintain relationships with museums to present our exhibits, or if demand for our exhibits from the museum community declines, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. 17 Table of Contents Our exhibitions are becoming subject to increasing competition that could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Titanic exhibitions. Although we are currently the only entity that exhibits artifacts recovered from the wreck site of the Titanic, we currently encounter competition from other Titanic exhibitions that exhibit replicas of artifacts and memorabilia not obtained directly from the wreck site. In addition, in the future we may encounter competition from other Titanic exhibitions or events, as our Titanic exhibition business continues to change. For example, an adverse ruling in 1999 by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit left us with non-exclusive rights to photograph and film the Titanic wreck site. As a result of this ruling, other companies can now photograph and film the Titanic wreck site, which exposes us to increased competition that could, for example, result in our loss of future exhibitions or other opportunities, such as documentary film rights. Moreover, it is possible that other companies may, albeit in violation of our Salvor-in-Possession rights, attempt to explore the Titanic wreck site in the future. If any of these companies were successful, we would face increased competition as well as increased costs necessary to defend and preserve our rights. The availability of remotely-operated vehicles for charter from third-parties to conduct expeditions may make it easier for others to gain access to the Titanic site in violation of our Salvor-in-Possession rights. In addition, the anniversary of the Titanic’s sinking may make it more attractive for competitors to present competing Titanic themed exhibitions or products. Any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Human anatomy exhibitions. Our human anatomy exhibitions face intense competition with other human anatomy exhibitions similar to ours offered by various companies in the U.S. and around the world. As a result, we may lose visitors to our exhibits based on competitors’ claims, the proximity of competing exhibitions to ours, and our ability to advertise and otherwise entice visitors to our exhibits in the extremely competitive marketplace. In addition, if a significant number of new human anatomy exhibitions were to enter the same markets in which our exhibitions are offered or are planned to be offered, attendance at our human anatomy exhibitions could decline and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Other exhibitions. If we are successful in presenting our new exhibitions, competitors may bring similar exhibitions of their own to the market. To the extent competitors are successful at marketing and promoting competing exhibitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Through our co-promoters, we conduct exhibitions outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks that could increase our costs and cause our profitability to decline. During fiscal 2013, we derived approximately $1.2 million or 3.0% of our total revenue from exhibitions located outside of the U.S., which represents12.3% of our total attendance. We intend to continue to pursue international exhibition opportunities. Our international exhibitions are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing, training and managing foreign operations; • changing and irregular enforcement of legal regulations; • difficulties in collecting amounts due from foreign partners; and • political and economic instability. We are also subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our costs and cause our profitability to decline. Our financial arrangements with foreign vendors are mostly based upon foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which our exhibitions are touring. The U.S. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant volatility in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could harm our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Certain aspects of our operations are subject to governmental regulation, and our failure to comply with any existing or future regulations could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our exhibitions are subject to federal, state and local laws, both domestically and internationally, governing various matters, such as: • licensing and permitting; • health, safety, environmental and sanitation requirements; • working conditions, labor, minimum wage and hour, citizenship and employment laws; and • sales, use and other taxes and withholding. We cannot predict the extent to which existing or future laws or regulations could impact our operations. Although we generally contract with a third party for various services at our venues, we cannot provide assurances that we or our third-parties are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times, that we or our third-parties will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations or that we will not incur liabilities for violations by us or third-parties with which we maintain a relationship. Our failure or the failure of any of our third-parties with which we maintain a relationship to comply with laws and regulations could also cause us to be subject to investigations or governmental actions that could seriously harm our business. We may be unable to hire and retain the personnel we need and, as a result, could lose our competitive position. To meet our business objectives, we must continue to attract and retain skilled technical, operational, managerial and sales and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these skilled professionals from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives and may lose our competitive position, which could harm our business revenue. In addition, our recent efforts to reduce headcount and general and administrative expenses may harm our ability to attract or retain the personnel we need. Severe weather may impact our operations at our stationary exhibitions, which contribute a significant portion of our revenue and income. Recent severe weather has significantly impacted our operations in New York City. Severe weather may impact our operations and prohibit us from presenting exhibitions. Particularly where such severe weather impacts our stationary exhibit operations in New York City, Atlanta, Georgia, Las Vegas, Nevada or Orlando, Florida, the inability to operate may significantly impact our revenues and income. While the Company maintains property insurance and, where appropriate, business interruption coverage, insurance proceeds may not fully compensate the Company for its loss of revenue and business opportunity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 