ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Until recently, we have had a history of operating losses, and there is no assurance that we will maintain profitability in the future. We have a history of operating losses. As recently as our fiscal year ended February 28, 2005, we experienced a net loss from continuing operations of $2,417,000. Only in the last two fiscal years have we achieved profitability. We cannot predict if we will continue to be profitable. It is uncertain if our future prospects will result in profitable operations and, if we experience future losses, the value of an investment in our common stock could decline significantly. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to successfully implement our new business strategy, which in turn depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We are a general exhibition company. Previously, we relied on third parties to produce our exhibitions, and we limited our exhibitions to displays of Titanic artifacts. However, we are now the sole producers of our Titanic exhibitions, and we no longer rely on third parties for the production of these exhibitions. Moreover, we have expanded our exhibitions beyond those related to the Titanic to include human anatomy exhibitions. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, some of which we believe are beyond our control, including: • our ability to continue to exhibit certain of the Titanic artifacts; • our ability to develop new exhibitions that the public will attend; • our ability to operate our exhibitions profitably; and • the continued popularity of and public demand for our exhibitions. 8 Table of Contents We may be unable to raise additional capital when needed, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to conduct our operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue for our planned operations, or if we encounter unforeseen costs, we will need to raise additional capital. We can give no assurances that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain additional capital, if and when needed, would have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and our ability to continue to conduct our operations. We may not be granted a salvage award that is commensurate with the efforts we have expended to recover items from the Titanic wreck site or may be prohibited from exhibiting certain of the Titanic artifacts already under our control. At a future date, a trial may be held in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia to determine a salvage award to compensate us for our efforts in recovering certain items from the wreck of the Titanic. Although the trial to determine the salvage award has been delayed indefinitely, the court has already ruled that it would likely not give us title to certain of the artifacts. As a result, at this time, the outcome of the salvage award trial is uncertain. It is possible that we may not be granted a salvage award that is commensurate with our recovery efforts. It is also possible that the court will take possession of certain of the Titanic artifacts, which may prevent us from conducting future Titanic exhibitions. These outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct Titanic exhibitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our Salvor-in-Possession rights to the Titanic wreck and wreck site, our Titanic exhibitions could face increased competition and we could lose the right to exhibit certain of the Titanic artifacts. As recently as January 31, 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit recognized that we are the exclusive Salvor-in-Possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. Salvor-in-Possession status enables us to prevent third parties from salvaging the Titanic wreck and wreck site and from interfering with our rights to salvage the wreck and wreck site. To maintain our Salvor-in-Possession rights, we must maintain a presence over the wreck site as interpreted by the courts. In addition, we may have to commence legal proceedings against third parties who attempt to violate our rights as Salvor-in-Possession, which may be expensive and time-consuming. Moreover, there are no assurances that the court will continue to recognize us as the sole and exclusive Salvor-in-Possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. If we were to lose our Salvor-in-Possession rights, our Titanic exhibitions could be exposed to competition and we could lose the right to exhibit certain of the Titanic artifacts. Either of these outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our exhibitions are becoming subject to increasing competition. We believe that our Titanic exhibition business is changing. For example, an adverse ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit left us with non-exclusive rights to photograph and film the Titanic wreck site. Because of this ruling, other companies can now photograph and film the Titanic wreck site, which exposes us to new competition that could, for example, result in our losing documentary opportunities. Moreover, it is possible that other companies may attempt to explore the Titanic wreck site in the future. If these companies were successful, we would face increased competition. Additionally, the availability of remote operated vehicles for charter from third parties to conduct expeditions may make it easier for others to gain access to the Titanic site in violation of our Salvor-in-Possession rights. These changes, as well as others, such as new laws and treaties or new interpretations of existing laws or treaties, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our “Bodies...The Exhibition” and “Bodies Revealed” exhibitions are subject to competition from other human anatomy exhibition vendors. To the extent other exhibition companies are successful at marketing and promoting competing exhibitions that are perceived more favorably than our exhibitions by the public, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Our exhibitions tour outside the U.S. from time to time and our financial arrangements with our foreign vendors have historically been based upon foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of currency 9 Table of Contents fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which our exhibitions are touring. If the value of the U.S. dollar increases in relation to these foreign currencies, our potential revenues from exhibition and merchandising activities outside the U.S. would be lowered and our results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends on the services of our executive officers and key employees and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills and efforts of Arnie Geller, our president and chief executive officer; Stephen Couture, our vice president and chief financial officer; Tom Zaller, our vice president of exhibitions; and Brian Wainger, our vice president and chief legal counsel. If we lose the services of Messrs. Geller, Couture, Zaller or Wainger, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel we need to expand our operations and, as a result, could lose our competitive position. To meet our growth objectives and become a commercially successful general exhibition company, we must attract and retain skilled technical, operational, managerial and sales and marketing personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives and may lose our competitive position, which could lead to a significant decline in revenues. We face significant competition for these skilled professionals from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 