Item 1A: Risk Factors Our operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may effect our financial results, our accounting, and the accuracy of the forward making statements we make in this Form 10-K. We make statements regarding the timing of product introductions and regulatory approval or permission to market our products; the size of the potential markets for our products; our ability to increase sales of disposable product and capital equipment in the face of new product introductions from competitors; our ability to obtain regulatory clearance in new foreign markets; the responses of customer to our marketing strategies; our ability to retain and motivate skilled employees especially sales positions; our ability to expand our sales force; the valuation of the Company's deferred tax asset allowance; our future revenue, earnings, earnings per share and expense levels; our future equity financing needs; and our ability to develop new products and enhance existing ones. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions and entail various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Our actual results may vary from these expectations because of a number of factors that affect our business, the most important of which include the following: o Because we derive virtually all of our revenue from a single product line, factors affecting that product line will adversely affect our overall results. We have focused our resources on the continued development and refinement of our AngioJet (R) System. If we fail to obtain additional regulatory approvals, a new competitor emerges, or the medical community rejects the use of the AngioJet System for multiple purposes, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. o Although we attempt to establish the clinical value of our products with clinical studies, adverse results from those studies have had, and could have in the future, a significantly adverse impact on our business. In order to support regulatory filings related to new applications for our products, and to encourage greater use of our products in existing applications, we periodically sponsor clinical studies. The studies are normally designed to be independent and not influenced by the sponsor. If the data from an independent study indicates or implies that our products are ineffective, or less effective than anticipated, our business would likely be negatively affected. For example, we sponsored a three year study on the use of our AngioJet System in treating cardiac infarct where visible thrombosis was not required that ended in the summer of 2004. When the study did not indicate that the AngioJet had a positive impact on final infarct size, the marketplace began questioning the value of our system generally, particularly in heart treatment. The negative publicity from these results significantly impacted our results for the 2005 and 2006 fiscal years. If future studies generated similar results, our operations would be further negatively impacted. o Because our products are subject to extensive governmental regulation, we might not be able to pursue opportunities rapidly or effectively and failure to comply with regulatory requirements could subject us to fines penalties and prosecution. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive and rigorous federal and state regulation in the United States and various regulatory requirements in other countries. Current United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) enforcement policy strictly prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved 8 uses. Therefore, even if our products receive regulatory approval, regulators may significantly limit the indications for which our products may be marketed. In addition, the process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals can be lengthy and expensive, and the outcome of the process can be uncertain. Moreover, regulatory approvals may be withdrawn if we fail to comply with regulatory standards or if unforeseen problems arise following the initial marketing of a product. Additionally, we are required to adhere to Quality System Regulations promulgated by the FDA relating to product design, development, manufacturing, servicing, testing and documentation. Failure to comply with applicable Quality System Regulations or other regulatory requirements may result in fines, delays or suspensions of approvals, injunctions against further distribution of our products, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, criminal prosecutions or other sanctions, in addition to adverse publicity. The adoption of new regulations or changes in existing regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals and could adversely affect the marketing of our existing products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in our receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the loss of previously received approvals or our failure to comply with regulatory requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. o Our manufacturing would be interrupted if we were unable to use our manufacturing facility. We manufacture all of our AngioJet System products at our manufacturing facility in Minneapolis, Minnesota. If this facility was to be destroyed, shut down or unable to be used for its intended purpose, or if the specialized manufacturing equipment we maintain at the office is damaged, we would not be able to manufacture the AngioJet System products until a replacement facility and equipment was found, and the replacement facility and process revalidated. The replacement of the manufacturing facility and equipment and the revalidation of the facilities could take several months before manufacturing operations could restart. The delay engendered by, and the potential cost incurred in, these steps would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. o We may not be able to enhance our products rapidly enough to keep pace with advances in the medical products industry. The medical products market is characterized by rapidly evolving technology. Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with advancing technology from competitors and other innovators. Potential competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products, some of which may accomplish desired therapeutic effects through entirely different methods than the products we are developing. We believe our AngioJet System will face intense competition from a variety of treatments for the removal of blood clots, including clot-dissolving (thrombolytic) drug therapies, surgical intervention, balloon embolectomy, embolic protection devices, mechanical and laser thrombectomy devices, ultrasound ablators, and other thrombectomy devices based on waterjet systems that are currently being developed by other companies. o Larger companies in the medical products industry may be in a better position to compete for our customers. Many of the companies developing competing devices have substantially greater capital and substantially greater resources for and experience in research and development, regulatory matters, manufacturing and marketing than we have. These companies will be serious competitors for us and may succeed in developing products that are more effective and/or less costly than the AngioJet System. Furthermore, these companies may be more successful than we are in manufacturing and marketing their products. Our competitors or others may develop technologies, products or procedures that are more effective than any we are developing or that may render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. The advent of new devices, procedures or new pharmaceutical agents could hinder our ability to compete effectively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. o We may not be able to adequately secure our position through intellectual property protection. Our success depends and will continue to depend in part on our ability to maintain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We attempt to protect our technology by filing patent applications for technology that we consider important to the development of our business, among other measures described below. Claims relating to medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, their outcomes are highly uncertain. We cannot assure you that our pending applications will result in patents being issued to us or that either our new patents or our existing patents will give us a competitive advantage. Moreover, our competitors may design around any patents issued to us, third parties may receive patent protection on their own waterjet devices, and others may hold or receive patents containing claims that may cover products developed by us. We require all our employees to execute non-disclosure agreements when they are first employed. We cannot assure you, however, that these non-disclosure agreements and other safeguards will protect our proprietary information and know-how, or that they will provide us adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. We also cannot assure you that others will be unable to develop such information independently. 9 o The intellectual property litigation to which we might be required to resort to protect our products could be costly and unfavorable results could damage our business. The medical device industry has seen much litigation with respect to patent and other intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary for us to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to defend against claimed infringement of others' rights or to determine the ownership, scope or validity of the proprietary rights of Possis Medical, Inc. and others. However, litigation also could be extremely costly to us and could divert our resources and efforts away from our products and day-to-day business matters. If the litigation had an adverse outcome, it could subject us to substantial liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. o Many of our sales are subject to reimbursement by third party agencies or private insurers of agencies and changes in eligibility or rates of reimbursement could adversely affect our business. Health care providers (such as hospitals and physicians) that purchase medical devices like the AngioJet System for the treatment of patients generally rely on third-party payors like Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance plans to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with the health care services they provide. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of and profits generated by health care products are subject to government control. In some states, Medicare and Medicaid payors reimburse hospitals for inpatient medical procedures at a pre-determined rate based on diagnosis-related groups. Currently, we do not believe that U.S. reimbursement rates are a material impediment to adoption of our therapy. If these rates do not include, and third-party payors do not otherwise provide, adequate reimbursement to health care providers for the cost of our products, our products will not gain wide market acceptance and our financial results will suffer. The market for our products also could be adversely affected by future legislation to reform the nation's health care system or by changes in industry practices regarding reimbursement. We cannot assure you that the reimbursement rates of third-party payors will allow us to price our products at levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. o We may not be able to retain all of our key personnel. We depend greatly on a limited number of key management and technical personnel. Moreover, because of the highly technical nature of our business, our ability to continue our technological developments and to market our products--and thereby develop a competitive edge in the marketplace--depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical and key management personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the individuals we need. The loss of key personnel, or our inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. o We may be subject to product liability claims, for which insurance coverage may be insufficient. The manufacture and sale of our products may subject us to product liability claims. The United States Supreme Court has held that, despite a company's compliance with FDA regulations, it may not be shielded from common-law negligent-design claims or manufacturing and labeling claims based on state laws. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We cannot assure you that the coverage limits of our product liability insurance policies will be adequate if a product liability claim is brought against us. A successful claim or series of claims against us that exceeds our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, whether or not successful, product liability litigation would likely divert the attention of our key personnel and could adversely affect our reputation and the marketability of our technology and products. Consequently, any product liability litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. o The protections we have adopted may cause takeover offers to be decided by the Board rather than our shareholders. Of the 100 million shares of capital stock authorized by our amended and restated articles of incorporation, 81 million shares are undesignated. Our Board of Directors may issue the undesignated shares on terms and with the rights, preferences and designations determined by the Board without shareholder action. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan that provides for the exercise of preferred share purchase rights when a person becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (subject to certain exceptions). We also are subject to provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act that limit the voting rights of shares acquired in specified types of acquisitions and that restrict specified types of business combinations. The existence or issuance of "blank check" stock, the existence of our shareholder rights plan and the effect of anti-takeover provisions under Minnesota law, individually or in the aggregate, may discourage potential takeover attempts and delay, deter or prevent a change in control. They also may make the removal of management more difficult, which could deprive our shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares at prices higher than prevailing market prices. o We depend on single-source suppliers. We depend on single-source suppliers for some of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. If we cannot obtain key raw materials from our suppliers, we cannot assure you that the materials will be available from other suppliers, that other suppliers will agree to supply the materials to us, or that our use of the 10 other suppliers would be approved by the FDA. Although we believe our supply of raw materials currently is adequate for the needs of our business, we cannot assure you that new sources of supply will be available when needed. Any interruption in our supply of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is located and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 