ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, some of which are described below and elsewhere in this report. If any of the risks described below should be realized, our business and results of operation could be harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us, or which we currently deem to be immaterial, could also harm our business and results of operations. Until recently, we have had a history of operating losses, and there is no assurance that we will continue to achieve profitability in the future. We have a history of operating losses. Only recently have we begun to achieve profitability. We cannot predict if we will continue to be profitable. It is uncertain if our future prospects will result in profitable operations and, if we experience future losses, the value of an investment in our common stock could decline significantly. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to successfully implement our new business strategy, which in turn depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We are in the process of changing our business strategy in order to become a general exhibition company. Previously, we relied on third parties to produce our exhibitions, and we limited our exhibition to displays of Titanic artifacts. However, we are now the sole producers of our Titanic exhibitions, and we no longer rely on third parties for the production of these exhibitions. Moreover, we have expanded our exhibitions beyond those related to the Titanic to include human anatomy exhibitions. Our future operating results will depend on our 10 Table of Contents ability to successfully implement our new business strategy. We believe that our ability to do so will depend on many factors, some of which we believe are beyond our control, including: • our ability to continue to exhibit Titanic artifacts; • our ability to develop new exhibitions that the public will attend; • our ability to operate our exhibitions profitably; • the continued popularity of and public demand for Titanic exhibitions; and • continued public demand for historical and scientific exhibitions. We may be unable to raise additional capital when needed, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to conduct our operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue for our planned operations, or if we encounter unforeseen costs, we will need to raise additional capital. We can give no assurances that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain additional capital, if and when needed, would have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and our ability to continue to conduct our operations. We may not be granted a salvage award that is commensurate with the efforts we have expended to recover items from the Titanic wreck site or may be prohibited from exhibiting certain Titanic artifacts already under our control. We own 1,800 artifacts recovered during the 1987 expedition to the Titanic. At a future date, however, a trial may be held in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia to determine whether a salvage award to compensate us for our efforts in recovering the remaining artifacts from all other expeditions will be in cash or in kind. This means the outcome of the salvage award trial is uncertain at this time. It is possible that we may not be granted a salvage award that is commensurate with our recovery efforts. It is also possible that the court will take possession of certain of the artifacts, which would affect the way we conduct certain exhibitions. These outcomes may have a material adverse effect on our operations, which, in turn, may reduce the value of an investment in our common stock. If we are unable to maintain our salvor-in-possession rights to the Titanic wreck and wreck site, we could lose our exclusivity with respect to exhibiting artifacts recovered from the Titanic As recently as January 31, 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit recognized that we are the exclusive salvor-in-possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. Salvor-in-possession status enables us 11 Table of Contents to prevent certain third parties from salvaging the Titanic wreck and wreck site and from interfering with our rights to salvage the wreck and wreck site. To maintain our salvor-in-possession rights, we must maintain a presence over the wreck by making periodic expeditions to the wreck site. In addition, we may have to commence legal proceedings against third parties who attempt to violate our rights as salvor-in-possession, which may be expensive and time-consuming. Moreover, there are no assurances that the court will continue to recognize us as the sole and exclusive salvor-in-possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. Our exhibitions are becoming subject to increasing competition. We believe that our Titanic exhibition business is changing. For example, an adverse ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit stripped us of our exclusive right to photograph and film the Titanic wreck site. Because of this ruling, other companies can now photograph and film the Titanic wreck site, which exposes us to new competition that could, for example, result in our losing documentary opportunities. Moreover, it is possible that other companies may attempt to explore the Titanic wreck site in the future. If these companies were successful, we would face increased competition. Additionally, the availability of remotely operated vehicles for charter from third parties to conduct expeditions may make it easier for others to gain access to the Titanic site in violation of our salvor-in-possession rights. These changes, as well as others, such as new laws and treaties or new interpretations of existing laws or treaties, could have a material adverse affect on our business. In addition, our “Bodies...The Exhibition” and “Bodies Revealed” exhibitions are subject to competition from other exhibition vendors. To the extent other exhibition companies are successful at marketing and promoting competing exhibitions that are perceived more favorably than our exhibitions by the public, there could be a material adverse affect on our business. We depend upon third parties to provide us with access to the Titanic wreck site, as well as to assist us with our recovery and restoration activities. If we become unable to obtain these services from such third parties, we would not be able to conduct future expeditions to the Titanic wreck site and consequently our ability to produce new Titanic exhibitions would be severely curtailed. We do not own the equipment necessary to access the Titanic wreck site. Instead, each time we desire to undertake an expedition to the Titanic wreck site, we charter the necessary equipment and personnel for the expedition from third parties. Similarly, we utilize the services of third parties for recovery, restoration and preservation services. Because we lack the direct capability to independently access the Titanic wreck site, we contract with providers of these services. We therefore face the risk of being unable to access the Titanic wreck site or being unable to obtain necessary services when needed. These circumstances could arise if our third party providers charge more for their services, exit the business of providing the services, or are unable to, or refuse to, provide the services to us at prices that we are willing to pay. If we were unable to obtain necessary services from third parties, we would be unable to conduct future expeditions to the Titanic wreck site and consequently our ability to produce new Titanic exhibitions would be severely curtailed. Because we depend on discretionary spending by consumers to generate revenue, if consumers have less discretionary income to spend or decide to attend competing exhibitions rather than ours, our results of operations would be adversely affected. The amount spent by consumers on discretionary items, such as entertainment activities and the purchase of merchandise, depends on their level of discretionary income, which may be adversely affected by general or local economic conditions. We believe the consumers primarily attend our exhibitions for entertainment. Accordingly, if consumers have less discretionary income to spend because of poor economic conditions, we believe they will be less likely to attend our exhibitions and purchase our merchandise. Consumers may decide that competing exhibitions are more appealing and, consequently, they may not attend our exhibitions. To date, we have had success exhibiting Titanic artifacts. There can be no assurance, however, that consumers will continue to be interested in viewing the Titanic or human anatomy exhibitions 12 Table of Contents that we conduct, or that we will be able to present new, alternative exhibitions that consumers will find appealing. We are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations, which negatively affect our results of operations. Our exhibitions tour outside the U.S. from time to time and our financial arrangements with our foreign vendors have historically been based upon foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which our exhibitions are touring. If the value of the U.S. dollar increases in relation to these foreign currencies, our potential revenues from exhibition and merchandising activities outside the U.S. would be lowered and our results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends on the services of our executive officers and key employees and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills and efforts of Arnie Geller, our chief executive officer; Stephen Couture, our vice president and chief financial officer; Tom Zaller, our vice president — exhibitions; and Brian Wainger, our chief legal counsel and vice president — business affairs. If we lose the services of Messrs. Geller, Couture, Zaller or Wainger, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel we need to expand our operations and, as a result, could lose our competitive position. To meet our growth objectives and become a general exhibition company, we must attract and retain skilled technical, operational, managerial and sales and marketing personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives and may lose our competitive position, which could lead to a significant decline in revenues. We face significant competition for these skilled professionals from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. New corporate governance requirements have increased our costs and make it more difficult to attract qualified directors. We face new corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These laws, rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly. These new requirements also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur significantly higher costs to obtain coverage. These new requirements are also likely to make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve as members of our board of directors or committees of the board. Furthermore, as a result of the settlement agreements in connection with the lawsuits Lawrence D’Addario v. Arnie Geller, Gerald Couture, Joe Marsh and R.M.S. Titanic, Inc. and Dave Shuttle and Barbara Shuttle v. Arnie Geller, G. Michael Harris, Gerald Couture, and R.M.S. Titanic, Inc., as discussed below in Item 3 of this report, we will also be required to incur significant additional costs to comply with the corporate governance standards upon which we have agreed to settle those cases. Those costs could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 