ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the risks or uncertainties discussed below and elsewhere in this report occur, including, but not limited to, the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this report, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we presently deem to be immaterial could also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategy, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. We are a general exhibition company. Previously, we relied exclusively on third-parties to produce our exhibitions, and our exhibitions were limited to matters related to the Titanic and to human anatomy. We are now the sole producers of our Titanic exhibitions, and we no longer rely on third-parties for the production of all of our human anatomy exhibitions. Moreover, we have recently expanded our exhibitions beyond those related to the Titanic and human anatomy and in the near future plan to open exhibitions of sports memorabilia entitled “Sports Immortals” as well as exhibitions entitled “Dialog in the Dark.” Our future operating results will depend on many factors, some of which we believe are beyond our control, including: • our ability to successfully produce and integrate new exhibitions; • our ability to develop new exhibitions that the public will attend; • our ability to operate our existing and future exhibitions profitably; and • the popularity of and public demand for our existing and future exhibitions. A general deterioration in economic conditions that affects consumer spending could harm our results of operations. If an economic slowdown or other factors cause consumers to reduce their discretionary spending to a point where attendance at our exhibitions declines, our revenues and results of operations could be harmed. Our new exhibitions may not develop as we currently anticipate, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We recently entered into a license agreement with Sports Immortals, Inc. to present, promote and conduct multiple “Sports Immortals” exhibitions featuring sports artifacts and memorabilia. We also recently entered into a license agreement to present “Dialog in the Dark” exhibitions. In addition, we recently entered into a long-term lease agreement with Ramparts, Inc., the owner of the Luxor Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada for approximately 47,164 square feet of space. We plan to use such space to present our “Bodies...The Exhibition” and Titanic exhibitions as well as for other opportunities. In connection with these new arrangements, we anticipate that we will incur costs to build infrastructure, make advances to venues and otherwise invest in these new product lines. If these or other new lines of exhibitions do not develop as we anticipate, either due to our inability to execute on our strategic plans or as a result of other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Our exhibition business is sensitive to public tastes. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer preferences, demand for our exhibitions could decrease. Our ability to generate revenue from our exhibitions is highly sensitive to changes in public tastes. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and to offer appealing exhibitions. We typically book each exhibition venue several months in advance of an exhibition’s opening and often agree to pay an advance to the venue owner prior to our receiving any operating income. Therefore, if the public is not receptive to a particular exhibition or location, we could incur a loss depending on the amount of the advance and incurred costs. Moreover, if we are not able to anticipate, identify or react to changes in public tastes, reduced demand for our exhibitions will likely result. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed. Like many other companies that make entertainment available to the public, we utilize significant resources to advertise, promote and provide marketing support for our exhibitions. We are also party to agreements pursuant to which we engage third-parties to assist us in the production, design, promotion and marketing of our exhibitions. If our advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns are not successful, or if we are not able to continue to 7 Table of Contents secure on commercially reasonable terms the assistance of third-parties in our marketing and promotional activities, our results of operations will be harmed. We may be unable to raise additional capital when needed, which could harm our financial condition and negatively our ability to conduct our operations and grow our business. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue for our planned operations, or if we encounter unforeseen costs, we may need to raise additional capital. If additional capital is not available to us on favorable terms, if and when needed, our financial condition and our ability to continue to conduct our operations could be seriously harmed. We are dependent upon our ability to lease exhibition venues. If we are unable to lease exhibition venues on acceptable terms, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We require access to exhibition venues owned or leased by third-parties to conduct our exhibitions. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to utilize such venues on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to obtain new venue locations on favorable terms depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, including but not limited to, international, national and local business conditions as well as competition from other promoters and exhibitions. If we are not able to continue to secure exhibition locations on commercially reasonable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We may not be granted a salvage award that is commensurate with the efforts we have expended to recover items from the Titanic wreck site or may be prohibited from exhibiting certain of the Titanic artifacts already under our control. In November 2007, we filed a motion with the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Northern Division seeking a trial to determine a salvage award to compensate us for our efforts in recovering certain items from the wreck of the Titanic. Although the trial to determine the salvage award has not yet been held, the court has already ruled that it would likely not give us title to certain of the artifacts. As a result, the outcome of the salvage award trial is uncertain. It is possible that we may not be granted a salvage award that is commensurate with our recovery efforts. It is also possible that the court will take possession of certain of the Titanic artifacts we have already recovered, which may make it difficult for us to conduct future Titanic exhibitions in the same manner as we presently conduct such exhibitions. A negative decision by the court on our motion could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct Titanic exhibitions, which could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our Salvor-in-Possession rights to the Titanic wreck and wreck site, our Titanic exhibitions could face increased competition and we could lose the right to exhibit certain Titanic artifacts. On January 31, 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit recognized that we are the exclusive Salvor-in-Possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. Our Salvor-in-Possession status enables us to prevent third-parties from salvaging the Titanic wreck and wreck site and from interfering with our rights to salvage the wreck and wreck site. To maintain our Salvor-in-Possession rights, we must maintain a presence over the wreck site as interpreted by the courts. In addition, we may have to commence legal proceedings against third-parties who attempt to violate our rights as Salvor-in-Possession, which may be expensive and time-consuming. Moreover, the court may not continue to recognize us as the sole and exclusive Salvor-in-Possession of the Titanic wreck and wreck site. If we were to lose our Salvor-in-Possession rights, our Titanic exhibitions could be exposed to competition and we could lose the right to exhibit certain Titanic artifacts. Either of these outcomes would harm our operating results. Our exhibitions are becoming subject to increasing competition. Titanic exhibitions. We believe that our Titanic exhibition business is changing. For example, an adverse ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit left us with non-exclusive rights to photograph and film the Titanic wreck site. As a result of this ruling, other companies can now photograph and film the Titanic wreck site, which exposes us to new potential competition that could, for example, result in our losing future exhibitions or other opportunities, such as documentary film rights. Moreover, it is possible that other companies may, albeit in violation of our Salvor-in-Possession rights, attempt to explore the Titanic wreck site in the future. If any of these companies were successful, we would face increased competition as well as increased costs necessary to defend and 8 Table of Contents preserve our rights. Additionally, the availability of remote operated vehicles for charter from third-parties to conduct expeditions may make it easier for others to gain access to the Titanic site in violation of our Salvor-in-Possession rights. New laws and treaties or new interpretations of existing laws or treaties, could also have a material adverse effect on our Titanic exhibition business. Human anatomy exhibitions. Our human anatomy exhibitions are subject to competition from other existing and potential human anatomy exhibition companies. If a significant number of new human anatomy exhibitions were to enter the same markets in which our exhibitions are offered or are planned to be offered, attendance at our human anatomy exhibitions could decline and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Other exhibitions. If we are successful in presenting our Sports Immortals or Dialog in the Dark exhibitions, competitors may bring similar exhibitions of their own to the market. To the extent competitors are successful at marketing and promoting competing exhibitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We conduct numerous exhibitions outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our costs and cause our profitability to decline. During fiscal 2008, we derived approximately $11,378,000, or 21%, of our net revenue from exhibitions located outside of the U.S. We intend to continue to pursue international exhibition opportunities. Our international exhibitions are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing, training and managing foreign operations; • changing and irregular enforcement of legal regulations; and • political and economic instability. We are also subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our costs and cause our profitability to decline. Our financial arrangements with our foreign vendors have historically been based upon foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which our exhibitions are touring. The U.S. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Certain aspects of our operations are subject to governmental regulation, and our failure to comply with any existing or future regulations could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our exhibitions are subject to federal, state and local laws, both domestically and internationally, governing various matters, such as: • licensing and permitting; • health, safety, environmental and sanitation requirements; • working conditions, labor, minimum wage and hour, citizenship and employment laws; • new legislative initiatives; and • sales, use and other taxes and withholding. We cannot predict the extent to which existing or future laws or regulations could impact our operations. Although we generally contract with a third-party for various services at our venues, we cannot provide assurances that we or our third-parties are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times, that we or our third-parties will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations or that we will not incur liabilities for violations by us or third-parties with which we maintain a relationship. Our failure or the failure of any of our third-parties with which we maintain a relatioinship to comply with laws and regulations could also cause us to be subject to investigations or governmental actions that could seriously harm our business. 9 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed as a result of litigation. We are a party to several ongoing material legal proceedings. These proceedings are described below in Item 3 of Part I of this report under the heading “Legal Proceedings” and also in Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our current legal proceedings, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. If we are not able to manage our growth effectively, our results of operations could be seriously harmed. We have grown significantly in the past several years and anticipate that we will grow substantially in the future. We have increased the number of types of exhibitions we present from one during our fiscal year ended February 29, 2004, which we refer to as fiscal 2004, (Titanic) to at least four anticipated during fiscal 2009 (Titanic, human anatomy, Sports Immortals and Dialog in the Dark). Our existing management systems, financial and management controls and information systems may not be adequate to support our planned expansion. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to continue to expend funds to improve these systems, and surrounding procedures and controls, which we expect will increase our operating expenses and capital requirements. In addition, we must effectively expand, train and manage our personnel. If we are not able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on our management and our existing systems, procedures and controls, we could lose opportunities or overextend our resources, which in turn could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions may not provide us with the benefits and sales growth we expect and could result in us becoming subject to unforeseen liabilities. In the past we have acquired, and we may in the future acquire, other companies in order to expand our existing business or to obtain additional exhibitions or other business lines. We cannot be certain that we will achieve the benefits that we expect from any such acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs, expenses or liabilities in connection with any such acquisitions. To effectively manage our expected future growth, we will need to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls. If we fail in any of these areas, or if an acquisition results in us becoming subject to significant unforeseen costs, expenses or liabilities, our business and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Our success depends on the continued services of our senior executive officers and key employees and the loss of their services could seriously harm our ability to fulfill our business objectives. We believe that our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills and efforts of Bruce Eskowitz, our president and chief executive officer; Harold W. Ingalls, our chief financial officer; Bob Sirmans, our vice president of business development and strategy; Tom Zaller, vice president of exhibitions; and Brian Wainger, our general counsel and corporate secretary. If we lose the services of any of these individuals, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel we need to expand our operations and, as a result, could lose our competitive position. To meet our growth objectives, we must continue to attract and retain skilled technical, operational, managerial and sales and marketing personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives and may lose our competitive position, which could harm our business revenue. We face significant competition for these skilled professionals from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and investors in our common stock could see the value of our common stock decline materially. Recently, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. Such changes may occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common 10 Table of Contents stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. Moreover, companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action lawsuits. Any such lawsuit filed against us, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which in turn could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 