Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk. In addition to other information in this report, potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this report before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. Each of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which may cause you to lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE. Our operating results may fluctuate because of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these factors that affect our results but which are difficult to control or predict are: the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by customers whether as a result of slowing demand for our products, stockpiling of our products or otherwise; fluctuations in the timing and amount of customer requests for product shipments; fluctuations in product life cycles; changes in the mix of products that our customers buy; competitive pressures on selling prices; the ability of our customers to obtain products from their other suppliers; and general economic conditions. DEPENDENCE ON KEY CUSTOMERS. Our customers are concentrated, so the loss of one or more key customers could significantly reduce our revenues. During the year ended February 28, 2009, approximately 31.0% of sales were to three customers. During the year ended February 29, 2008, approximately 37.1% of sales were to three customers. Two of these customers, located in the Eastern United States, accounted for 29.3% of sales. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISKS. At February 28, 2009, three of our customers represented 55.3% of our trade receivables. Such accounts receivable subject us to a significant concentration of risk. There can be no assurance that such clients will not experience financial difficulties or other problems which could delay such customers in paying for product on a timely basis or at all. Any problems with such customers can be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES. The major portion of our product line has been used in protective eyewear since 1976. Yet the field has proven to be an active one and we must anticipate competition to develop. Epolin has committed itself to make capital investments to maintain its position as a key supplier in this field. There can be no assurance that our dye technology will not be rendered less competitive, or obsolete, by the development of new methods to achieve laser safety and other forms of eye protection. COMPETITION. We experience, in management's opinion, limited competition in all areas of our business. Management believes that other dye companies do not offer the broad range of dyes nor provide the level of technical service as provided by Epolin. We believe that our extensive product portfolio, technical expertise and customer support are the key factors in our competitiveness. However, as mentioned above, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive position in the event new methods to achieve laser safety and other forms of eye protection are developed. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION. Manufacturers of chemical products are subject to extensive Federal and State environmental regulations. While we believe Epolin has complied with such regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur expenses to remedy any future environmental violations discovered. In addition, no assurances can be given 6 that future regulations will not be adopted, compliance with which will result in substantial expense to, and otherwise adversely affect our business. PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY PROTECTION. We have not generally in the past relied upon patents for protection of our dye business or to provide us with any significant competitive advantage as it relates to our existing product lines. There can be no assurance that others may not independently develop the same, similar or alternative technologies or otherwise obtain access to our proprietary technologies. However, we recently filed a patent application in the United States for a new IR dye compound. Even if this patent application is granted, we cannot guaranty that such will be of commercial benefit to the Company or otherwise offer the Company protection from competing products. SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS. We purchase chemicals from several large chemical manufacturers and then further process them into its saleable products. Although we limit ourselves to a relatively small number of suppliers, we are not restricted to such suppliers, and Management believes the availability to such raw materials is widespread. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that raw materials will continue to be easily obtainable. Any difficulty in obtaining raw materials would have a material adverse effect on our business. THE LOSS OF OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PRESIDENT OR CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD WOULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS. Our success depends in substantial part upon the services our three principal executive officers. Although our Chairman of the Board presently works only on a part-time basis, a loss of one or more of our current officers could severely and negatively impact our operations. In addition, we do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our three principal executive officers and we have no plans to obtain this insurance. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY PERSONNEL. Due to the specialized nature of our business, our success depends in part upon attracting and retaining the services of qualified managerial and technical personnel. The market for such persons remains competitive and the relative small size of Epolin may make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified persons. DIVIDENDS. During fiscal 2007, Epolin approved the adoption of a dividend policy under which Epolin will issue a regular annual cash dividend on shares of its Common Stock. The amount of the dividend, record date and payment date will be subject to approval every year by the Board of Directors. As a result, any such future dividends will depend on earnings, other financial requirements and other factors, many of which may be beyond the control of Epolin. MAINTAINING AND IMPROVING OUR FINANCIAL CONTROLS MAY STRAIN OUR RESOURCES AND DIVERT MANAGEMENT'S ATTENTION. We are subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The requirements of these rules and regulations have increased, and we expect will continue to increase, our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. As a result of this and similar activities, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. THE CURRENT FINANCIAL CRISES AND DETERIORATING ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION THAT WE CURRENTLY CANNOT PREDICT. The economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world have been deteriorating. Global financial markets have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility and declines in prices of securities, diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other governments. Unemployment has risen while businesses and consumer confidence have declined and there are fears of a prolonged recession. Although we cannot predict the impacts on us of the deteriorating economic conditions, they could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY EXPERIENCE VOLATILITY. The market price of the Common Stock, which currently is listed in the OTC Bulletin Board, has, in the past, fluctuated over time and may in the future be volatile. We believe that there are a small number of market makers that make a market in our Common Stock. The actions of any of these market makers could substantially impact the volatility of our Common Stock. 7 POTENTIAL FUTURE SALES PURSUANT TO RULE 144. Many of the shares of Common Stock presently held by management and others are "restricted securities" as that term is defined in Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act. Under Rule 144, a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a certain holding period, may, under certain circumstances sell such shares or a portion of such shares. Effective as of February 15, 2008, the holding period for the resale of restricted securities of reporting companies was shortened from one year to six months. Additionally, the SEC substantially simplified Rule 144 compliance for non-affiliates by allowing non-affiliates of reporting companies to freely resell restricted securities after satisfying a six-month holding period (subject only to the Rule 144(c) public information requirement until the securities have been held for one year) and by allowing non-affiliates of non-reporting companies to freely resell restricted securities after satisfying a 12-month holding period. Therefore, actual sales or the prospect of sales of such shares under Rule 144 in the future may depress the prices of the Company's securities. OUR COMMON STOCK IS A PENNY STOCK. Our Common Stock is classified as a penny stock, which is traded on the OTCBB. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the price of the shares of the Common Stock. In addition, the "penny stock" rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission subject the sale of the shares of the Common Stock to certain regulations which impose sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. For example, broker-dealers selling such securities must, prior to effecting the transaction, provide their customers with a document that discloses the risks of investing in such securities. Furthermore, if the person purchasing the securities is someone other than an accredited investor or an established customer of the broker-dealer, the broker-dealer must also approve the potential customer's account by obtaining information concerning the customer's financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. The broker-dealer must also make a determination whether the transaction is suitable for the customer and whether the customer has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be reasonably expected to be capable of evaluating the risk of transactions in such securities. Accordingly, the Commission's rules may result in the limitation of the number of potential purchasers of the shares of the Common Stock. In addition, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in the Common Stock, which could severely limit the market of our Common Stock. LIMITATIONS OF THE OTCBB CAN HINDER COMPLETION OF TRADES. Trades and quotations on the OTCBB involve a manual process that may delay order processing. Price fluctuations during a delay can result in the failure of a limit order to execute or cause execution of a market order at a price significantly different from the price prevailing when an order was entered. Consequently, one may be unable to trade in our Common Stock at optimum prices. THE OTCBB IS VULNERABLE TO MARKET FRAUD. OTCBB securities are frequent targets of fraud or market manipulation, both because of their generally low prices and because OTCBB reporting requirements are less stringent than those of the stock exchanges or NASDAQ. INCREASED DEALER COMPENSATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT STOCK PRICE. OTCBB dealers' spreads (the difference between the bid and ask prices) may be large, causing higher purchase prices and less sale proceeds for investors. Except as required by the Federal Securities Law, Epolin does not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K or for any other reason. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are not required to provide the information under this item. 