Item 1A. Risk Factors Our independent auditors have expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In their report dated April 15, 2008, our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. However, our independent auditors raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our recurring losses from operations, operating cash flow deficiencies, significant debt obligations which become due and payable during 2008 and our limited capital resouces. Our future success and ability to continue as a going concern is contingent upon, among other things, the ability to achieve and mantain satisfactory levels of profitable operations, obtain and maintain adequate levels of debt and equity financing for expansion and to meet our obligations, and provide sufficient cash from operations to meet current and future obligations. The Common Stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. The Common Stock is currently quoted on The Nasdaq Capital Market. We must satisfy certain minimum listing maintenance requirements to maintain such quotation, including a series of financial tests relating to shareholders equity or net income or market value, public float, number of market makers and shareholders, market capitalization, and maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for the Common Stock. In the past, we have experienced periods in which the minimum bid price for the Common Stock fell below $1.00 per share. On June 26, 2007, The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC notified us that for the last 30 consecutive business days the bid price for the Common Stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion of the common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market as required by Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) (the “Rule”). In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), we had 180 calendar days, or until December 24, 2007, to regain compliance with the Rule. On December 27, 2007, The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC notified us that we did not regain compliance with the Rule by December 24, 2007 and that, on December 24, 2007, we met all initial inclusion criteria for The Nasdaq Capital Market set forth in Rule, except for the bid price requirement. Accordingly, pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), we have an additional 180 calendar days, or until June 24, 2008, to regain compliance with the Rule. We may regain compliance with the Rule if the bid price of the Common Stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten (10) consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance with the Rule prior to June 24, 2008, then The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC will notify us that the Common Stock will be delisted. If the Common Stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, then the Common Stock may trade on the Over-the-Counter-Bulletin Board, which is viewed by most investors as a less desirable and less liquid market place. Delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market could make trading the Common Stock more difficult for our investors, leading to declines in share price. Delisting of the Common Stock would also make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise additional capital. Furthermore, delisting of the Common Stock is an event of default under our credit facility with our primary lender, under our outstanding 6.75% senior unsecured convertible debentures and, through certain cross default provisions, the Loan and Security Agreement we entered into with Clarent Corporation in connection with our acquisition of substantially all of the business assets, and certain related liabilities, of Clarent Corporation on February 12, 2003. If we do not repay our indebtedness to Clarent Corporation, we will be in default under our Loan and Security Agreement with Clarent Corporation, and as a result of cross-default provisions, certain of our other secured and unsecured indebtedness. Our approximately $3.7 million debt to Clarent Corporation pursuant to our Loan and Security Agreement with Clarent Corporation was due and payable on February 15, 2008. On that date, we entered into an amendment to such Loan and Security Agreement with Clarent Corporation’s liquidating trustee that provided that the outstanding principal amount and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon was due and payable by March 3, 2008 unless we paid approximately $730,000 in accrued unpaid capitalized interest by such date. We paid the $730,000 to Clarent Corporation on February 29, 2008. As a result, the $3.0 million principal amount remaining outstanding will be due and payable within three (3) business days of August 12, 2008. As part of the amendment, we have agreed to pay interest monthly on the unpaid principal amount at a rate of 8% per annum. If we do not pay the amounts due under the Loan and Security Agreement when they are due, then we will be in default under the Loan and Security Agreement and, through certain cross-default provisions, we will be in default under our outstanding unsecured convertible debentures and our credit facility with our senior lender. 17 We have significant debt obligations which become due in 2008. We have significant short-term debt obligations which become payable during the remainder of 2008 in the aggregate amount of approximately $18.0 million. These obligations include payments under our Loan and Security Agreement with Clarent Corporation, our outstanding unsecured convertible debentures and our credit facility with our senior lender. Our ability to satisfy these debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive industry conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to generate cash flows from our operating activities sufficient to permit us to satisfy these debt obligations. If our cash flows are insufficient to satisfy these debt obligations, then we may be forced to seek additional capital, sell assets or restructure or refinance our debt. If our cash flows are insufficient to satisfy these debt obligations and we are unable to raise sufficient funds from alternative measures, then we will not be able to satisfy our short-term debt obligations. The price of the Common Stock has been volatile. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. From September 4, 2003 to April 10, 2008, the per share closing price of our Common Stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly known as The Nasdaq SmallCap Market) fluctuated from a high of $25.35 to a low of $0.10. We believe that the volatility of the price of the Common Stock does not solely relate to our performance and is broadly consistent with volatility experienced in our industry. Fluctuations may result from, among other reasons, responses to operating results, announcements by competitors, regulatory changes, economic changes, market valuation of technology firms and general market conditions. In addition, in order to respond to competitive developments, we may from time to time make pricing, service or marketing decisions that could harm our business. Also, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In either case, the trading price of the Common Stock would likely decline. The trading price of the Common Stock could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to these or other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If the market price of the Common Stock decreases, then shareholders may not be able to sell their shares of Common Stock at a profit. We may be unable to fund future growth. Our business strategy calls for growth internally as well as through acquisitions. We have invested substantial funds in our sales and marketing efforts in order to grow revenues. This strategy to increase sales and marketing resources as well as other strategies for growth internally which we may implement now or in the future will require funding for additional personnel, capital expenditures and other expenses, as well as for working capital purposes. Financing may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, then we may not be able to meet our business objectives for expansion. This, in turn, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, then the percentage ownership of our shareholders will be reduced, and any new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the Common Stock. Furthermore, if we raise capital or acquire businesses by incurring indebtedness, then we will become subject to the risks associated with indebtedness, including interest rate fluctuations and any financial or other covenants that our lender may require. Moreover, if our strategy to invest in our sales and marketing efforts in order to grow revenues does not produce the desired result, then we will have incurred significant expenses which we may or may not have obtained adequate funding to cover. We have a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future. We have a history of net losses, including net losses of $27.0 million for the 2007 fiscal year, $17.8 million for the 2006 fiscal year, $20.1 million for the 2005 fiscal year, $38.8 million for the 2004 fiscal year, $18.3 million for the 2003 fiscal year, $2.7 million for the 2002 fiscal year and $147.6 million for the 2001 fiscal year. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $376.8 million. Further, developing our business strategy and expanding our services will require significant additional capital and other expenditures. Accordingly, if we are not able to increase our revenue, then we may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve or sustain profitability. We have significant market overhang which could adversely affect the trading price of the Common Stock. As of April 15, 2008, we had (i) 93.3 million shares of Common Stock outstanding, (ii) approximately 7.2 million shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, (iii) approximately 24.1 million shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants and (iv) approximately 4.7 million shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the principal amount of its outstanding convertible debentures. If all the outstanding options, warrants, and convertible debentures were exercised or converted, as applicable, by their holders, then approximately an additional 129.3 million shares of Common Stock would be outstanding. This would represent an approximate 45% increase in our outstanding Common Stock. The convertible debentures are convertible, and a vast majority of the outstanding options and warrants are exercisable, at prices currently above the public trading prices of the Common Stock. However, in the event that even a portion of these outstanding options and warrants were to be exercised, or a portion of the convertible debentures were to be converted, the resulting dilution could depress the trading price of the Common Stock. We have registered all of the potential dilutive shares of Common Stock for resale pursuant to registration statements filed with the SEC. If a significant portion of these shares are sold in the public marketplace by the selling shareholders identified in these registration statements, then such sales could also have a severe and adverse material affect on the trading price of the Common Stock. 18 Our growth could be limited if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. We believe that our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified technical, managerial, and marketing personnel. Competition for highly skilled engineering, sales, marketing, and support personnel is intense because there is a limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and an understanding of the markets which we serve. Workforce reductions by us during recent years may adversely affect our ability to retain our current employees and recruit new employees. The inability to hire or retain qualified personnel could hinder our ability to implement our business strategy and harm our business. We are exposed to the general condition of the telecommunications market. Our business is subject to global economic conditions, and in particular, market conditions in the telecommunications industry. Our operations could be adversely affected if capital spending from telecommunications service providers does not grow or declines. If global economic conditions worsen, or if the prolonged slowdown in the telecommunications industry continues, then we may experience adverse operating results. Our need to invest in research and development could harm our operating results. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. If we fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, then our products could become less attractive to potential customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of our need to maintain or increase its spending levels in this area, our operating results could be materially harmed if our net sales fall below expectations. In addition, as a result of the need for research and development and technological innovation, our operating costs may increase in the future. The market for converged communications solutions is still in its infancy and rapidly evolving. If this market does not develop and grow as expected, then it could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe there is a significant growth opportunity in providing converged communications solutions to customers, there can be no assurances that this technology will be widely accepted or that a viable market for our products will fully develop or be sustainable. If this market does not develop, or develops more slowly than expected, then we may not be able to sell our products in significant volume, or at all. Due to the intense competition in this market and the recent introduction of this technology, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in this evolving marketplace. Intellectual property infringement claims against us, even without merit, could require us to enter into costly licensing agreements or deprive us of the technology we need. Our industry is technology intensive. As the number of competitors in our target markets increases and the functionality of the products produced by such competitors further overlaps, third parties may claim that the technology we develop or license infringes their proprietary rights. Any claims against us or any of our subsidiaries may affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Any infringement claims, even those without merit, could require us to pay damages or settlement amounts or could require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements to avoid service implementation delays. Any litigation or potential litigation could result in product delays, increased costs or both. In addition, the cost of litigation and the resulting distraction of our management resources could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If successful, a claim of product infringement could deprive us of the technology we need altogether. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends in part upon the protection of our proprietary application software and hardware products. We have taken steps that we believe are adequate to establish, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights. We cannot provide assurance that these efforts will be adequate. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain rights to use our products or technology. 19 We have pending several patent applications related to our products. There can be no assurance that these patents will be issued. Even if these patents are issued, the limited legal protection afforded by patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights to the intellectual property covered by these patents. Furthermore, the laws of many foreign countries in which we do business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. In addition, it is necessary to file for patent and trademark protection in foreign countries in order to obtain legal protection in those countries. We have made such filings only on a limited basis. These efforts may not be sufficient and additional filings may be cost prohibitive. Additionally, even if our domestic and international efforts are successful, our competitors may independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially similar or superior to our technologies. If our products contain defects, then our sales are likely to suffer, and we may be exposed to legal claims. Our business strategy calls for the development of new products and product enhancements which may from time to time contain defects or result in failures that we did not detect or anticipate when introducing such products or enhancements to the market. In addition, the markets in which our products are used are characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations and by errors, failures, and bugs in third-party platforms that can impede proper operation of our products. Despite product testing, defects may still be discovered in some new products or enhancements after the products or enhancements are delivered to customers. The occurrence of these defects could result in product returns, adverse publicity, loss of or delays in market acceptance of our products, delays or cessation of service to our customers or legal claims by our customers against us. To the extent that contractual provisions that limit the Company’s exposure to legal claims are unenforceable or are not included in contracts or such claims are not covered by insurance, a successful products liability claim could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be obligated to indemnify customers who purchase equipment from us against claims of patent infringement. In the course of our business, we may sell certain equipment and license software to our customers, and in connection with such sale and license, may agree to indemnify these customers from claims made against them by third parties for patent infringement related to such equipment and software. If we are required to make any payments in respect of these indemnification obligations, then it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our focus on emerging markets could make achievement of our sales goals more difficult. We focus a large part of our sales efforts on emerging markets, including Africa, India, Latin America, and the Middle East. These markets can be more volatile and less predictable than more developed markets. In addition, there is limited history and thus a level of uncertainty for demand for communications products in these markets and both service providers and end users tend to have less capital to spend on communications products. These elements could impact our ability to meet our sales objectives. Sales to customers based outside the United States have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. International sales represented 43% of the revenues for the Technologies Group for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 49% of the revenues for such group for the year ended December 31, 2006. Furthermore, we expect sales to international markets to increase as a percentage of revenues in the future. International sales are subject to a number of risks, including changes in foreign government regulations, laws, and communications standards; export license requirements; currency fluctuations, tariffs and taxes; other trade barriers; difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; longer accounts receivable collection cycles; difficulty in managing across disparate geographic areas; difficulties in hiring qualified local personnel; difficulties associated with enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; expenses associated with localizing products for foreign markets; and political and economic instability, including disruptions of cash flow and normal business operations that may result from terrorist attacks or armed conflict. If the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the currency of our foreign customers should increase, then the resulting effective price increase of our products to these foreign customers could result in decreased sales. In addition, to the extent that general economic downturns in particular countries or regions impact our customers, the ability of these customers to purchase our products could be adversely affected especially for some of the more significant projects. Payment cycles for international customers can be longer than those for customers in the United States. The foreign markets for our products may develop more slowly than currently anticipated. Also, our ability to expand the sale of certain of our products internationally is limited by the necessity of obtaining regulatory approval in new countries. We anticipate that our non-Canadian, foreign sales will generally be invoiced in U.S. dollars, and do not currently plan to engage in foreign currency hedging transactions. As we expand our international operations, however, we may allow payment in foreign currencies, and exposure to losses in foreign currency transactions may increase. We may choose to limit any currency exposure through the purchase of forward foreign exchange contracts or other hedging strategies. Our future currency hedging strategies if employed may not be successful. 20 Our dependence on contract manufacturers and suppliers could result in product delivery delays. We currently use contract manufacturers to manufacture a significant portion of our NetPerformer, AccessGate, and Verilink hardware products. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves a number of risks, including the absence of adequate capacity, the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to necessary manufacturing processes and reduced control over delivery schedules. If our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products and components in required volumes on the required time schedule, then we will have to identify one or more acceptable alternatives. The use of new manufacturers may cause significant interruptions in supply if the new manufacturers have difficulty manufacturing products to our specifications. Further, the introduction of new manufacturers may increase the variance in the quality of our products. In addition, we rely upon third-party suppliers of specialty components and intellectual property used in our products. It is possible that a component needed to complete the manufacture of our products may not be available at acceptable prices or on a timely basis, if at all. Inadequate supplies of components, or the loss of intellectual property rights, could affect our ability to deliver products to our customers. Any significant interruption in the supply of our products would result in the reduction of product sales to customers, which in turn could permanently harm our reputation in the industry. We may be subject to litigation. We may be subject to claims involving how we conduct our business or the market for or issuance of the Common Stock or other securities. Any such claims against us may affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Such claims, including those without merit, could require us to pay damages or settlement amounts and would require a substantial amount of time and attention from our senior management as well as considerable legal expenses. Although we do not anticipate that our activities would warrant such claims, there can be no assurances that such claims will not be made. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from channel distribution partners and such revenues may decline significantly if any major partner cancels or delays a purchase of our products. We use an indirect sales model to derive a substantial portion of our revenue. Failure to generate revenue as expected from this channel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. No channel partner or distributor is obligated to purchase additional products or services from us. Accordingly, present and future partners may terminate their purchasing arrangements with us or significantly reduce or delay their orders. Any termination, change, reduction, or delay in orders could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we currently have varying distribution, marketing and development arrangements with our partners. There is no assurance that we will continue to enjoy the support and cooperation that we have historically experienced from these parties or their associated distribution channels. Also, there is no certainty that these parties will continue to offer our products in their sales portfolio. It is possible that these vendors may seek to offer broader product lines and solutions that are competitive with our products. In addition, they may change their distribution models which could negatively impact our revenues. Furthermore, we must correctly anticipate the price, performance and functionality requirements of these partners and must successfully develop products that meet end user requirements and make these products available on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities in order to sustain and grow our business. Our inability to develop and maintain relationships with key technology suppliers could harm our ability to sustain and grow our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our continued relationships with leading technology suppliers. The standards for telephony equipment and data networks are evolving, and our products may not be compatible with new technology standards that may emerge. If we are unable to provide our customers with interoperable solutions, then they may make purchases from vendors who provide the requisite product interoperability. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental regulations could cause us significant expense. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental regulations. If we fail to comply with any present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, the suspension of production or a prohibition on the sale of our products. In addition, such regulations could require us to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations, including expenses associated with the redesign of any non-compliant product. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. For example, in 2003 the European Union enacted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (“RoHS”) and the Waste Electrica and Electronic Equipment Directive (“WEEE”), for implementation in European Union member states. Similar legislation is currently in force or is being considered in the United States, as well as other countries, such as Japan and China. The failure to comply with any of such regulatory requirements or contractual obligations could result in the Company being liable for costs, fines, penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in the jurisdictions where these regulations apply. 21 We may be required to pay liquidated damages to certain of our investors under certain circumstances. Pursuant to the registration rights agreements we have entered into with the investors who purchased our securities in a private placement transaction conducted in January and February 2007, we agreed to pay to such investors certain liquidated damages in the event we do not meet certain of our obligations under such registration rights agreements. The registration statement filed on behalf of the investors was declared effective by the SEC on June 14, 2007. If this registration statement ceases to remain continuously effective or the investors are not permitted to use the prospectus of which such registration statement is a part as required by the registration rights agreements for more than fifteen (15) consecutive calendar days or more than an aggregate of twenty (20) calendar days during any twelve (12)–month period, then on the date of such event and each monthly anniversary of such date until we are able to cure such event, we will be required to pay to the investors a cash payment equal to 1.5% of the aggregate purchase price paid by such investors for the securities purchased by them in the private placement; however, the maximum aggregate liquidated damages we may be obligated to pay may not exceed $1,200,000. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under such registration rights agreements and we are obligated to pay liquidated damages, it may have a materially adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Item 