Item 1A. Risk Factors The price of the Common Stock has been volatile. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. From September 13, 2002 to January 24, 2006, the per share closing price of the Common Stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly known as The Nasdaq SmallCap Market) fluctuated from a high of $25.35 to a low of $0.85. The Company believes that the volatility of the price of the Common Stock does not solely relate to the Company’s performance and is broadly consistent with volatility experienced in the Company’s industry. Fluctuations may result from, among other reasons, responses to operating results, announcements by competitors, regulatory changes, economic changes, market valuation of technology firms and general market conditions. In addition, in order to respond to competitive developments, the Company may from time to time make pricing, service or marketing decisions that could harm its business. Also, the Company’s operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In either case, the trading price of the Common Stock would likely decline. The trading price of the Common Stock could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to these or other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. If the market price of the Common Stock decreases, then shareholders may not be able to sell their shares of Common Stock at a profit. The Company may be unable to fund future growth. The Company’s business strategy calls for growth internally as well as through acquisitions. The Company has invested substantial funds in its sales and marketing efforts in order to grow revenues. This strategy to increase sales and marketing resources as well as other strategies for growth internally which the Company may implement now or in the future will require funding for additional personnel, capital expenditures and other expenses, as well as for working capital purposes. Financing may not be available to the Company on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, then the Company may not be able to meet its business objectives for expansion. This, in turn, could harm the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if the Company raises additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, then the percentage ownership of the Company’s shareholders will be reduced, and any new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the Common Stock. Furthermore, if the Company raises capital or acquires businesses by incurring indebtedness, then the Company will become subject to the risks associated with indebtedness, including interest rate fluctuations and any financial or other covenants that the Company’s lender may require. Moreover, if the Company’s strategy to invest in its sales and marketing efforts in order to grow revenues does not produce the desired result, then the Company will have incurred significant expenses for which it may or may not have obtained adequate funding to cover. 12 Table of Contents The Company has a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future. The Company has a history of net losses, including net losses of $20.1 million for the 2005 fiscal year, $38.8 million for the 2004 fiscal year, $18.3 million for the 2003 fiscal year, $2.7 million for the 2002 fiscal year and $147.6 million for the 2001 fiscal year. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $332.0 million. Further, developing the Company’s business strategy and expanding the Company’s services will require significant additional capital and other expenditures. Accordingly, if the Company is not able to increase its revenue, then it may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve or sustain profitability. The Common Stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. The Common Stock is currently quoted on The Nasdaq Capital Market. The Company must satisfy certain minimum listing maintenance requirements to maintain such quotation, including a series of financial tests relating to shareholders equity or net income or market value, public float, number of market makers and shareholders, market capitalization, and maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for the Common Stock. On November 11, 2004, The Nasdaq Stock Market notified the Company that for the last 30 consecutive business days the bid price for the Common Stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion of the Common Stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market as required by Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) (the “Rule”). In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), the Company had 180 calendar days, or until May 10, 2005, to regain compliance with the Rule by having the bid price of the Common Stock close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days at anytime before May 10, 2005. The Company did not obtain compliance with the bid price requirement of the Rule by May 10, 2005. Because the Company met all of the other Nasdaq Capital initial listing criteria set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c) other than the bid price requirement, the Company had an additional 180 calendar day compliance period in which to demonstrate compliance with the Rule. The Board amended the Company’s Articles of Incorporation to provide for the Reverse Split effective on October 11, 2005. Pursuant to the Reverse Split, every one share of the Common Stock issued and outstanding was automatically reclassified and converted into one-fifth of a share of Common Stock. The Reverse Split enabled the Company to maintain the minimum listing requirements to continue its quotation on The Nasdaq Capital Market without interruption. However, it is possible that the bid price of the Common Stock could again fall below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days resulting in another infraction under the Rule. If the Company is unable to satisfy the Rule or any other continued listing requirement of The Nasdaq Capital Market, then the common Stock may be subject to delisting. If the Common Stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, then the Common Stock may trade on the Over-the-Counter-Bulletin Board, which is viewed by most investors as a less desirable and less liquid market place. Delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market could make trading the Common Stock more difficult for the Company’s investors, leading to declines in share price. Delisting of the Common Stock would also make it more difficult and expensive for the Company to raise additional capital. Furthermore, delisting of the Common Stock is an event of default under the Company’s credit facility with the Company’s primary lender, the Company’s outstanding 7.5% convertible debentures and 6% senior unsecured convertible debentures and, through certain cross default provisions, the Loan and Security Agreement the Company entered into with Clarent Corporation in connection with the Company’s acquisition of substantially all of the business assets, and certain related liabilities, of Clarent Corporation on February 12, 2003. The Company’s growth could be limited if it is unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company believes that its success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Competition for highly skilled engineering, sales, marketing and support personnel is intense because there is a limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and an understanding of the markets which the Company serves. Workforce reductions by the Company during recent years may adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain its 13 Table of Contents current employees and recruit new employees. The inability to hire or retain qualified personnel could hinder the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy and harm its business. The Company is exposed to the general condition of the telecommunications market. The Company’s business is subject to global economic conditions, and in particular, market conditions in the telecommunications industry. The Company’s operations could be adversely affected if capital spending from telecommunications service providers do not grow or decline. If global economic conditions worsen, or if the prolonged slowdown in the telecommunications industry continues, then the Company may experience adverse operating results. The Company’s need to invest in research and development could harm the Company’s operating results. The Company’s industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. If the Company fails to invest sufficiently in research and development, then the Company’s products could become less attractive to potential customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the Company’s need to maintain or increase its spending levels in this area, the Company’s operating results could be materially harmed if the Company’s net sales fall below expectations. In addition, as a result of the need for research and development and technological innovation, the Company’s operating costs may increase in the future. The market for converged communications solutions is still in its infancy and rapidly evolving. If this market does not develop and grow as expected, then it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. While the Company believes there is a significant growth opportunity in providing converged communications solutions to its customers, there can be no assurances that this technology will be widely accepted or that a viable market for the Company’s products will fully develop or be sustainable. If this market does not develop, or develops more slowly than expected, then the Company may not be able to sell its products in significant volume, or at all. Due to the intense competition in this market and the recent introduction of this technology, there can be no assurance that the Company will succeed in this evolving marketplace. Intellectual property infringement claims against the Company, even without merit, could require the Company to enter into costly licenses or deprive the Company of the technology it needs. The Company’s industry is technology intensive. As the number of competitors in the Company’s target markets increases and the functionality of the products produced by such competitors further overlaps, third parties may claim that the technology the Company develops or licenses infringes their proprietary rights. Any claims against the Company or any of its subsidiaries may affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial conditions. Any infringement claims, even those without merit, could require the Company to pay damages or settlement amounts or could require the Company to develop non-infringing technology or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements to avoid service implementation delays. Any litigation or potential litigation could result in product delays, increased costs or both. In addition, the cost of litigation and the resulting distraction of the Company’s management resources could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. If successful, a claim of product infringement could deprive the Company of the technology it needs altogether. Failure to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s success depends in part upon the protection of the Company’s proprietary application software and hardware products. The Company has taken steps that it believes are adequate to establish, protect and enforce its intellectual property rights. The Company cannot assure you that these efforts will be adequate. Despite the Company’s efforts to protect the Company’s proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain rights to use the Company’s products or technology. 14 Table of Contents The Company has pending several patent applications related to its products. There can be no assurance that these patents will be issued. Even if these patents are issued, the limited legal protection afforded by patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws may not be sufficient to protect the Company’s proprietary rights to the intellectual property covered by these patents. Furthermore, the laws of many foreign countries in which the Company does business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. In addition, it is necessary to file for patent and trademark protection in foreign countries in order to obtain legal protection in those countries. The Company has made such international filings only on a limited basis. These efforts may not be sufficient and additional filings may be cost prohibitive. Additionally, even if the Company’s domestic and international efforts are successful, the Company’s competitors may independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially similar or superior to the Company’s technologies. If the Company’s products contain defects, then the Company’s sales are likely to suffer, and the Company may be exposed to legal claims. The Company’s business strategy calls for the development of new products and product enhancements which may from time to time contain defects or result in failures that the Company did not detect or anticipate when introducing such products or enhancements to the market. In addition, the markets in which the Company’s products are used are characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations and by errors, failures and bugs in third-party platforms that can impede proper operation of the Company’s products. Despite product testing by the Company, defects may still be discovered in some new products or enhancements after the products or enhancements are delivered to customers. The occurrence of these defects could result in product returns, adverse publicity, loss of or delays in market acceptance of the Company’s products, delays or cessation of service to the Company’s customers or legal claims by customers against the Company. To the extent that contractual provisions that limit the Company’s exposure to legal claims are unenforceable or such claims are not covered by insurance, a successful products liability claim could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may be obligated to indemnify customers who purchase equipment from the Company against claims of patent infringement. In the course of the Company’s business, the Company may sell certain equipment and license software to its customers, and in connection with such sale and license, may agree to indemnify these customers from claims made against them by third parties for patent infringement related to such equipment and software. If the Company is required to make any payments in respect of these indemnification obligations, then it could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s focus on emerging markets could make achievement of its sales goals more difficult. The Company focuses a large part of its sales efforts on emerging markets, including the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. These markets can be more volatile and less predictable than more developed markets. In addition, there is less of a track record for demand for communications products in these markets and both service providers and end users tend to have less capital to spend on communications products. These elements could impact the Company’s ability to meet its sales objectives. Sales to customers based outside the United States have accounted for a significant portion of the Company’s revenues, which exposes the Company to risks inherent in international operations. International sales represented 73% of the revenues for the Packet-based Technologies Group for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 68% of the revenues for such group for the year ended December 31, 2004. Furthermore, the Company expects sales to international markets to increase as a percentage of revenues in the future. International sales are subject to a number of risks, including changes in foreign government regulations, laws, and communications standards; export license requirements; currency fluctuations, tariffs 15 Table of Contents and taxes; other trade barriers; difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; longer accounts receivable collection cycles; difficulty in managing across disparate geographic areas; difficulties in hiring qualified local personnel; difficulties associated with enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; expenses associated with localizing products for foreign markets; and political and economic instability, including disruptions of cash flow and normal business operations that may result from terrorist attacks or armed conflict. If the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the currency of the Company’s foreign customers should increase, then the resulting effective price increase of the Company’s products to these foreign customers could result in decreased sales. In addition, to the extent that general economic downturns in particular countries or regions impact the Company’s customers, the ability of these customers to purchase the Company’s products could be adversely affected especially for some of the more significant projects. Payment cycles for international customers can be longer than those for customers in the United States. The foreign markets for the Company’s products may develop more slowly than currently anticipated. Also, the Company’s ability to expand the sale of certain of its products internationally is limited by the necessity of obtaining regulatory approval in new countries. The Company anticipates that its non-Canadian, foreign sales will generally be invoiced in U.S. dollars, and does not currently plan to engage in foreign currency hedging transactions. As the Company expands its international operations, however, it may allow payment in foreign currencies, and exposure to losses in foreign currency transactions may increase. The Company may choose to limit any currency exposure through the purchase of forward foreign exchange contracts or other hedging strategies. The Company’s future currency hedging strategies if employed may not be successful. The Company’s dependence on contract manufacturers and suppliers could result in product delivery delays. The Company currently uses contract manufacturers to manufacture a significant portion of its NetPerformer products. The Company’s reliance on contract manufacturers involves a number of risks, including the absence of adequate capacity, the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to necessary manufacturing processes and reduced control over delivery schedules. If the Company’s manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing the Company’s products and components in required volumes, then the Company will have to identify one or more acceptable alternative manufacturers. Furthermore, the use of new manufacturers may cause significant interruptions in supply if the new manufacturers have difficulty manufacturing products to the Company’s specifications. Further, the introduction of new manufacturers may increase the variance in the quality of the Company’s products. In addition, the Company relies upon third-party suppliers of specialty components and intellectual property used in its products. It is possible that a component needed to complete the manufacture of the Company’s products may not be available at acceptable prices or on a timely basis, if at all. Inadequate supplies of components, or the loss of intellectual property rights, could affect the Company’s ability to deliver products to its customers. Any significant interruption in the supply of the Company’s products would result in the reduction of product sales to customers, which in turn could permanently harm the Company’s reputation in the industry. The Company may be subject to litigation. The Company may be subject to claims involving how the Company conducts its business or the market for or issuance of the Common Stock or other securities. Any such claims against the Company may affect its business, results of operations and financial conditions. Such claims, including those without merit, could require the Company to pay damages or settlement amounts and would require a substantial amount of time and attention from the Company’s senior management as well as considerable legal expenses. Although the Company does not anticipate that its activities would warrant such claims, there can be no assurances that such claims will not be made. 16 Table of Contents The Company derives a substantial amount of its revenues from channel distribution partners and such revenues may decline significantly if any major partner cancels or delays a purchase of its products. The Company uses an indirect sales model to derive a substantial portion of its revenue. Failure to generate revenue as expected from this channel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. No channel partner or distributor is obligated to purchase additional products or services from the Company. Accordingly, present and future partners may terminate their purchasing arrangements with the Company or significantly reduce or delay their orders. Any termination, change, reduction or delay in orders could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company currently has varying distribution, marketing and development arrangements with its partners. There is no assurance that the Company will continue to enjoy the support and cooperation that it has historically experienced from these parties or their associated distribution channels. Also, there is no certainty that these parties will continue to offer the Company’s products in their sales portfolio. It is possible that these vendors may seek to offer broader product lines and solutions that are competitive with the Company’s products. In addition, they may change their distribution models which could negatively impact revenues of the Company. Furthermore, the Company must correctly anticipate the price, performance and functionality requirements of these partners and must successfully develop products that meet end user requirements and make these products available on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities in order to sustain and grow its business. The Company’s inability to develop and maintain relationships with key technology suppliers could harm its ability to sustain and grow its business. The success of the Company depends to a significant degree upon its continued relationships with leading technology suppliers. The standards for telephony equipment and data networks are evolving, and the Company’s products may not be compatible with new technology standards that may emerge. If the Company is unable to provide its customers with interoperable solutions, then they may make purchases from vendors who provide the requisite product interoperability. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 