Item 1A. Risk Factors Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this document. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. Our strategic decision to transition our Young America children’s furniture product line from a blended manufacturing base comprised of both our own domestic factories and foreign sources to a completely domestic manufacturing platform utilizing only our Robbinsville, NC facility has, and will in the near term, increase our capital investment requirements and operating expenses. If we are not successful in the implementation of this strategy, we may experience disruptions to our operations that may result in a decline in revenues and liquidity; and an increase in our operating expenses. We believe our decision to manufacture all children’s furniture products in our North Carolina facility was necessary to regain control of our entire production process and position and differentiate the Young America brand through product safety, color and choice, quick delivery and the cache that products “Made in USA” bring at retail in our premium segment. This transition has increased operating expenses due to the disruption caused by the transition of 6 Table of Contents approximately one-third of our Young America product line from overseas sources to our domestic manufacturing facility. We expect long-term benefits as we distinguish our Young America product line from overseas competition in the marketplace. If we are unsuccessful in implementing this strategy and do not lower our overall operating expenses through process improvements and capital investments, we may experience disruptions in our operations that may result in a decline in revenues and liquidity and an increase in operating expenses. We may experience asset impairment or other charges, as well as a decrease in revenues, if our strategy to improve operating efficiencies to achieve a profitable Young America product line is not successful or if our marketing strategy for this product line is unsuccessful. If we do not achieve operating efficiencies sufficient to profitably manufacture our Young America product line domestically, or if our marketing strategy for this product line is unsuccessful, we may need to reposition our Young America product line, consider closing our Robbinsville facility and transition the manufacturing of Young America products to other sources, or we may need to cease production of our Young America product line altogether. In this event, we could experience asset impairment or other restructuring charges. In addition, if any of these actions are necessary, they could affect our ability to meet product demand which may in turn negatively impact customer relations and result in loss of market share. As a result of our reliance on foreign sourcing for our Stanley Furniture product line: • Our ability to service customers could be adversely affected and result in lower sales, earnings and liquidity. Our supply of goods could be interrupted for a variety of reasons. A natural disaster or other causes of physical damage to any one of our sourcing partners’ factories could interrupt production for an extended period of time. Our sourcing partners may not supply goods that meet our manufacturing, quality or safety specifications, in a timely manner and at an acceptable price. We may reject goods that do not meet our specifications, requiring us to find alternative sourcing arrangements at a higher cost, or may force us to discontinue the product. Also, delivery of goods from our foreign sourcing partners may be delayed for reasons not typically encountered with domestic manufacturing or sourcing, such as shipment delays caused by customs or labor issues. • Our ability to properly forecast consumer demand on product with extended lead times could result in lower sales, earnings and liquidity. Our use of foreign sources exposes us to risks associated with forecasting future demand on product with extended order lead time. Extended order lead times may adversely affect our ability to respond to sudden changes in demand, resulting in the purchase of excess inventory in the face of declining demand, or lost sales due to insufficient inventory in the face of increasing demand, either of which would also have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings and liquidity. • Changes in political, economic and social conditions, as well as laws and regulations, in the countries from which we source products could adversely affect us. Foreign sourcing is subject to political and social instability in countries where our sourcing partners are located. This could make it more difficult for us to service our customers. Also, significant fluctuations of foreign exchange rates against the value of the U.S. dollar could increase costs and decrease earnings. In addition, an outbreak of the avian flu or similar epidemic in Asia or elsewhere may lower our sales and earnings by disrupting our supply chain in the countries impacted. • International trade policies of the United States and countries from which we source products could adversely affect us. Imposition of trade sanctions relating to imports, taxes, import duties and other charges on imports could increase our costs and decrease our earnings. We may not be able to sustain sales, earnings and liquidity levels due to economic downturns. The furniture industry historically has been cyclical in nature and has fluctuated with economic cycles including the current economic recession. During economic downturns, the furniture industry tends to experience longer periods of 7 Table of Contents recession and greater declines than the general economy. We believe that the industry is significantly influenced by economic conditions generally and particularly by housing activity, consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary spending, demographics and credit availability. These factors not only affect the ultimate consumer, but also impact furniture retailers, which are our primary customers. As a result, a worsening of current conditions could further lower our sales and earnings and impact our liquidity. Business failures, or the loss, of large customers could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Although we have no single customer representing 10% or more of our total annual sales, the possibility of business failures, or the loss, of large customers could result in a decrease of our future sales and earnings. Lost sales may be difficult to replace and any amounts owed to us may become uncollectible. We may not be able to maintain or to raise prices in response to inflation and increasing costs. Future market and competitive pressures may prohibit us from successfully raising prices to offset increased costs of finished goods, raw materials, freight and other inflationary items. This could lower our earnings. Failure to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashions in a timely manner could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Residential furniture is a fashion business based upon products styled for a changing marketplace and is sometimes subject to rapidly changing consumer trends and tastes. If we are unable to predict or respond to changes in these trends and tastes in a timely manner, we may lose sales and have to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. This could lower our sales and earnings. We may not be able to sustain current sales and earnings due to the actions and strength of our competitors. The furniture industry is very competitive and fragmented. We compete with many domestic and overseas manufacturers. Competition from overseas producers has increased dramatically in recent years, with most residential wood furniture sold in the United States now coming from imports. These overseas producers typically have lower selling prices due to their lower operating costs and often replicate our designs closely enough to attract a portion of our customer base, but not closely enough to warrant legal action that would result in any substantial effect towards thwarting this practice. In addition, some competitors have greater financial resources than we have and often offer extensively advertised, highly promoted products. As a result, we are continually subject to the risk of losing market share, which may lower our sales and earnings. We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials in a timely manner, which could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Because we are dependent on outside suppliers for all of our raw material needs, we must obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials from our suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. We have no long-term supply contracts with our key suppliers. Unfavorable fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of these raw materials could negatively affect our ability to meet the demands of our customers and could result in a decrease in sales and earnings. Future cost of compliance with environmental, safety and health regulations could reduce our earnings. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental protection. The timing and ultimate magnitude of costs for compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations are difficult to predict and could reduce our earnings. Our business and operations would be adversely impacted in the event of a failure or interruption of our information technology infrastructure. The proper functioning of our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation and management of our business. If our information technology systems fail or are interrupted, our operations may be adversely affected and operating results could be harmed. Over the next two years, we are pursuing an initiative to improve our information technology infrastructure. These changes may be costly and disruptive to our operations, and could impose substantial demands on management time and resources. Our information technology systems, and those of third parties providing service to us, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control. These 8 Table of Contents include catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, viruses or malware, physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized access and cyber attacks. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar challenges with our information technology infrastructure, or disruptions or challenges relating to the transition to new processes, systems or providers, could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business and our results of operations. An “ownership change” could limit the use of our net operating loss carry forwards and decrease a potential acquirer’s valuation of our business, both of which could decrease our liquidity and earnings. If an “ownership change” occurs pursuant to applicable statutory regulations, we are potentially subject to limitations on the use of our net operating loss carry forwards which in turn could adversely impact our future liquidity and profitability. The limitations triggered by an “ownership change” could also decrease a potential acquirer’s valuation of our business and discourage a potential acquirer. In general, an “ownership change” would occur if there is a cumulative change in the ownership of our common stock of more than 50 percentage points by one or more “5% shareholders” during a three-year test period. Extended business interruption at our manufacturing facility could result in reduced sales. Furniture manufacturing creates large amounts of highly flammable wood dust. Additionally, we utilize other highly flammable materials such as varnishes and solvents in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires. Our inability to fill customer orders during an extended business interruption could negatively impact existing customer relationships resulting in the loss of market share. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 