Item 1A. Risk Factors Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this document. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. Our strategy to transition Young America Products (infant and youth furniture) to our domestic manufacturing facilities has, and will in the near term, increase operating expenses. If we are not successful in the implementation of this strategy, we may continue to experience significant disruptions to our operations that may result in a decline in revenues in addition to a continued increase in operating expenses. We believe our decision to bring all Young America production back to our domestic manufacturing facility was necessary to regain control of the entire production process so that we can reposition Young America as the trusted children’s furniture brand for safety, broad selection, quick delivery and commitment to environmentally conscious production. This transition has increased operating expenses due to the disruption caused by the transition of approximately one-third of our Young America product line from offshore sourcing to our domestic manufacturing facility. We expect the long-term benefit to be beneficial as we distinguish our Young America product line from the competition in the marketplace. If we are unsuccessful in implementing this strategy, we may continue to experience significant disruptions in our operations that may result in a decline in revenues in addition to a continued increase in operating expenses. As a result of our reliance on foreign sourcing: • Our ability to service customers could be adversely affected and result in lower sales and earnings. Our supply of goods could be interrupted for a variety of reasons. A natural disaster or other causes of physical damage to any one of our sourcing factories could interrupt production for an extended period of time. Our sourcing partners may not supply goods that meet our manufacturing, quality or safety specifications, in a timely manner and at an acceptable price. We may reject goods that do not meet our specifications, requiring us to find alternative sourcing arrangements at a higher cost, or may force us to discontinue the product. Also, delivery of goods from our foreign sourcing partners may be delayed for reasons not typically encountered with domestic manufacturing or sourcing, such as shipment delays caused by customs or labor issues. • Changes in political, economic and social conditions, as well as laws and regulations, in the countries from which we source products could adversely affect us. Foreign sourcing is subject to political and social instability in countries where our sourcing partners are located. This could make it more difficult for us to service our customers. Also, significant fluctuations of foreign exchange rates against the value of the U.S. dollar could increase costs and decrease earnings. In addition, an outbreak of the avian flu or similar epidemic in Asia or elsewhere may lower our sales and earnings by disrupting our supply chain in the countries impacted. • International trade policies of the United States and countries from which we source products could adversely affect us. Imposition of trade sanctions relating to imports, taxes, import duties and other charges on imports could increase our costs and decrease our earnings. We may experience a decrease in revenues, as well as asset impairment or other charges, if our strategy to transition Young America products to our domestic manufacturing is not successful. If we do not achieve operating efficiencies sufficient to profitably manufacture our Young America product line domestically, or if our marketing strategy for this product line is unsuccessful, we would need to reposition our Young America product line, consider closing our Robbinsville facility and transitioning manufacture of Young America products to other sources. In this event, we could experience a decrease in revenues, as well as asset impairment or other restructuring charges. In addition, if any of these actions are necessary, they could affect our ability to meet product demand which may in turn negatively impact customer relations and result in loss of market share. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain or to raise prices in response to inflation and increasing costs. Future market and competitive pressures may prohibit us from raising prices to offset increased costs from our sourcing partners, raw material costs, freight costs and other inflationary items. This could lower our earnings. We may not be able to sustain sales, earnings and liquidity levels due to economic downturns. The furniture industry historically has been cyclical in nature and has fluctuated with economic cycles including the current economic recession. During economic downturns, the furniture industry tends to experience longer periods of recession and greater declines than the general economy. We believe that the industry is significantly influenced by economic conditions generally and particularly by housing activity, consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary spending, demographics and credit availability. These factors not only affect the ultimate consumer, but also impact furniture retailers, which are our primary customers. As a result, a worsening of current conditions could further lower our sales and earnings and impact our liquidity. In addition, the current economic recession may result in permanent changes in consumer preferences and behavior which could result in a contraction of our market segment resulting in lower sales and earnings levels for the long term which would also adversely impact our liquidity. Failure to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashions in a timely manner could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Residential furniture is a highly styled product and is subject to rapidly changing consumer trends and tastes. If we are unable to predict or respond to changes in these trends and tastes in a timely manner, we may lose sales and have to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. This could lower our sales and earnings. Business failures, or the loss, of large customers could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Although we have no customers that individually represent 10% or more of our total annual sales, the possibility of business failures, or the loss, of large customers could result in a decrease of our future sales and earnings. Lost sales may be difficult to replace and any amounts owed to us may become uncollectible. We may not be able to sustain current sales and earnings due to the actions and strength of our competitors. The furniture industry is very competitive and fragmented. We compete with many domestic and foreign manufacturers. Competition from foreign producers has increased dramatically in recent years, with most residential wood furniture sold in the United States now coming from imports. These foreign producers typically have lower selling prices due to their lower operating costs. Some competitors have greater financial resources than we have and often offer extensively advertised, well-recognized, branded products. As a result, we are continually subject to the risk of losing market share, which may lower our sales and earnings. We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials in a timely manner, which could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Because we are dependent on outside suppliers for all of our raw material needs, we must obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials from our suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. We have no long-term supply contracts with our key suppliers. Unfavorable fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of these raw materials could negatively affect our ability to meet demands of our customers and could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Future cost of compliance with environmental, safety and health regulations could reduce our earnings. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental protection. The timing and ultimate magnitude of costs for compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations are difficult to predict and could reduce our earnings. 8 Table of Contents Extended business interruption at our manufacturing facility could result in reduced sales. Furniture manufacturing creates large amounts of highly flammable wood dust. Additionally, we utilize other highly flammable materials such as varnishes and solvents in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires. Our inability to fill customer orders during an extended business interruption could negatively impact existing customer relationships resulting in the loss of market share. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 