ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Risk Factors We have a limited operating history and a history of substantial operating losses and we may not be able to continue our business. We have a history of substantial operating losses and an accumulated deficit of $31,238,969 as of June 30, 2010 and negative working capital of $124,889. For the year ended June 30, 2010, our net loss was $4,477,564. We have historically experienced cash flow difficulties primarily because we have been till recently a development stage company and our expenses have exceeded our revenues. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the immediate near future; however, we may be able to generate positive cash flows from operations within the next 12 months. These factors and uncertainties, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our operations to pay expenses or we are unable to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonabl e terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We will need additional financing in order to continue our operations which we may not be able to raise. We will require additional capital to finance our future operations. We can provide no assurance that we will obtain additional financing sufficient to meet our future needs on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise. If we are unable to obtain the necessary financing, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We have only four employees and our success is dependent on our ability to retain and attract consultants to operate our business and there is no assurance that we can do so. As discussed earlier, as of June 30, 2010, we have four employees and utilize the services of consultants. Our consultants are bound by non-compete provisions; however, they are not otherwise prohibited from terminating their consulting relationship with the Company. Once we are sufficiently capitalized, we will need to recruit new executive managers and hire employees to help us execute our business strategy and help manage the growth of our business. Our business could suffer if we were unable to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel or if we were to lose any key personnel and are unable to find appropriate replacements in a timely manner. 11 Our performance depends on market acceptance of our products and we cannot be sure that our products are commercially viable. We expect to derive a substantial portion of our future revenues from the sales Rare Earths raw materials of AREM alloy golf shafts, fishing rods and Zeroloft management fees and royalties that are only now entering the initial marketing phase. Although we believe our products and technologies will be commercially viable, these are new and untested products. If markets for our products fail to develop further, develop more slowly than expected or are subject to substantial competition, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We depend on strategic marketing relationships and if we fail to maintain or establish them, our business plan may not succeed. We expect our future marketing efforts will focus in part on developing business relationships with distributors that will market our products to their customers. The success of our business depends on selling our products and technologies to a large number of distributors and retail customers. Competition from traditional golf equipment and fishing rod providers may increase and we may not be able to adequately compete. The market for golf shafts and fishing rods is highly competitive. There are a number of other established providers that have greater resources, including more extensive research and development, marketing and capital than we do and also have greater name recognition and market presence. These competitors could reduce their prices and thereby decrease the demand for our products and technologies. We expect competition to intensify in the future, which could also result in price reductions, fewer customer and lower gross margins. Rapidly changing technology and substantial competition may adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to rapid changes in technology. We can provide no assurances that research and development by competitors will not render our technology obsolete or uncompetitive. We compete with a number of companies that have technologies and products similar to those offered by us and have greater resources, including more extensive research and development, marketing and capital than we do. If our technology is rendered obsolete or we are unable to compete effectively, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Litigation concerning intellectual property could adversely affect our business. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademark law, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements and certain technology and security measures to protect our trademarks, license, proprietary technology and know-how. However, we can provide no assurance that competitors will not infringe upon our rights in our intellectual property or that competitors will not similarly make claims against us for infringement. If we are required to be involved in litigation involving intellectual property rights, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. It is possible that third parties might claim infringement by us with respect to past, current or future technologies. We expect that participants in our markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in our industry grows. Any claims, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and could cause service upgrade delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. On September 4th, 2009, we terminated the exclusive distribution agreement that we had with Kanata Shaft Company LLC (“Kanata”). At this time we are without an exclusive distributor of our golf products. Although we have resumed our direct relationships with the OEM manufacturers and other large wholesale and retail distributors of our products, and we have a website-based sales capability, if we are unable to replace Kanata with another exclusive distributor, our revenues from the sale of golf shafts, clubs and other products may decline, which could have a material adverse affect on our ability to grow our golf related business and, in turn, may have a material adverse affect on our ability to continue golf related operations. Defects in our products may adversely affect our business. Complex technologies such as the technologies developed by us may contain defects when introduced and also when updates and new products are released. Our introduction of technology with defects or quality problems may result in adverse publicity, product returns, reduced orders, uncollectible or delayed accounts receivable, product redevelopment costs, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products or claims by customers or others against us. Such problems or claims may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 The inability to obtain a sufficient amount of scandium or of scandium alloy or other Rare Earths and Zeroloft Aspen would adversely affect our business. Although we currently believe that we will continue to be able to have access to sufficient amounts of scandium or scandium alloy at feasible prices, there is no assurance of this, and any failure to be able to obtain a sufficient supply of scandium at reasonable prices would have a material adverse affect on our business. We have only one supplier for Zeroloft Aspen Aerogels and any failure to be able to obtain a sufficient supply at reasonable prices would have a material adverse affect on our business. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the resale of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and any outstanding convertible promissory notes and the exercise of outstanding warrants or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The conversion of these securities into common stock will also result in substantial dilution of the interests of our current stockholders. Our stock price can be extremely volatile. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. There can be no assurance that an active public market will continue for the common stock, or that the market price for the common stock will not decline below its current price. Such price may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to, investor perception of us and our industry and general economic and market conditions. The trading price of the common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to announcements of our business developments or our competitors, quarterly variations in operating results, and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of com panies, at times for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be sporadic because it is not a stock exchange, and stockholders may have difficulty reselling their shares. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on the NASDAQ SmallCap. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, shares of our common stock could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination and that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. 13 Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not declared dividends on our common stock since our incorporation and we have no present intention of paying dividends on our common stock. The Company is prohibited from paying dividends on common stock as long as there are any unpaid accrued dividends due to the Series B Convertible Stock shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 