ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Satellite Failures or Degradations in Satellite Performance Could Affect Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations In October 2011, our new high-capacity Ka-band spot-beam satellite, ViaSat-1, was successfully launched into orbit, and the satellite manufacturer handed over operation of the satellite to us in December 2011. In addition, we also own and operate the WildBlue-1 Ka-band satellite and hold an exclusive lifetime lease of Ka-band capacity on Telesat Canada’s Anik F2 satellite in the contiguous United States. We may construct, acquire or use one or more additional satellites in the future. We utilize capacity on our ViaSat-1 and WildBlue-1 satellites, on Telesat Canada’s Anik F2 satellite and on SES WorldSkies’ AMC-15 satellite to support our 17 Table of Contents broadband services in the United States. We also lease capacity on multiple satellites related to the provision of our international mobile broadband services to commercial and government customers. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and, accordingly, are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions (commonly referred to as anomalies), interference from electrostatic storms, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris. Anomalies can occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturing errors (including errors due to the use of new technology or designs), problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies, or other operational failures or degradations, on any of the satellites we own and operate or use could have a material adverse effect on our operations and revenues in our satellite services segment and our relationships with current customers and distributors, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our satellite broadband services. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby creating additional expense due to the need to provide replacement or backup capacity and potentially reducing revenues if service is interrupted on the satellites we utilize. We may not be able to obtain backup transponder capacity or a replacement satellite on reasonable economic terms or at all. In addition, anomalies may also cause a reduction of the revenue generated by the applicable satellite or the recognition of an impairment loss, and in some circumstances could lead to claims from third parties for damages, for example, if a satellite experiencing an anomaly were to cause physical damage to another satellite, create interference to the transmissions on another satellite or cause another satellite operator to incur expenses to avoid such physical damage or interference. Finally, the occurrence of anomalies may adversely affect our ability to insure our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. While some anomalies are covered by insurance policies, others are not or may not be covered. Satellites Have a Finite Useful Life, and Their Actual Operational Life May Be Shorter than Their Design Life Our ability to earn revenue from our satellite broadband services depends on the continued operation of ViaSat-1, WildBlue-1, Anik F2 and any other satellite we may acquire or use in the future. Each satellite has a limited useful life, referred to as its design life. There can be no assurance as to the actual operational life of a satellite, which may be shorter than its design life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their design and construction, the durability of their component parts and back-up units, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, consumption of remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion, degradation and durability of solar panels, and the occurrence of any anomaly or series of anomalies or other in-orbit risks affecting the satellite. In addition, continued improvements in satellite technology may make obsolete ViaSat-1 or any other satellite we may own or acquire prior to the end of its life. Potential Satellite Losses May Not Be Fully Covered By Insurance, or at All We currently hold in-orbit insurance for ViaSat-1, WildBlue-1 and Anik F2. We also intend to seek in-orbit insurance for any satellite we may acquire in the future. However, we may not be able to obtain insurance, or renew existing insurance, on reasonable economic terms or at all. If we are able to obtain or renew our insurance, it may contain customary exclusions and will not likely cover the full cost of constructing and launching or replacing the satellites, nor will it cover lost profits, business interruptions, fixed operating expenses or similar losses. In addition, the occurrence of any anomalies on other satellites, including other Ka-band satellites, or any failures of a satellite using similar components or failures of a similar launch vehicle to any launch vehicle we intend to use for any future satellite, may materially adversely affect our ability to insure the satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. Any insurance proceeds will not fully cover our losses in the event of a satellite failure or significant degradation. For example, the policies covering the insured satellites do not cover the full cost of constructing, launching and insuring new satellites, nor will they cover, and we do not have protection against, lost profits, business interruptions, fixed operating expenses, loss of business or similar losses. Our insurance contains customary exclusions, material change and other conditions that could limit recovery under those policies. Further, any insurance proceeds may not be received on a timely basis in order to launch a spare satellite or construct and launch a replacement satellite or take other remedial measures. In addition, the policies are subject to limitations involving uninsured losses, large satellite performance deductibles and policy limits. 18 Table of Contents Satellites Under Construction Are Subject to Significant Risks Related to Construction and Launch that Could Limit Our Ability to Utilize these Satellites We intend to construct and launch one or more additional satellites in the future. In particular, we have announced our intention to award a satellite construction contract in 2012 for a second high-capacity Ka-band spot-beam satellite. The design and construction of satellites require significant investments of capital and management time. Satellite construction and launch are also subject to significant risks, including construction delays, cost overruns, regulatory conditions or delays, unavailability of launch opportunities, launch failure, damage or destruction during launch and improper orbital placement. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take up to 36 months or longer, and to obtain other launch opportunities. The overall historical loss rate in the satellite industry for all launches of commercial satellites in fixed orbits in the last five years is estimated by some industry participants to be approximately 10% but could at any time be higher. Our Satellite Broadband Services Business Strategy May Not Succeed in the Long Term A major element of our satellite broadband services business strategy is to utilize ViaSat-1 and any additional satellites we may construct or acquire to greatly expand our provision of retail and wholesale satellite broadband internet services in the United States. We successfully launched our ViaSat-1 satellite in October 2011 and commenced our Exede broadband service offerings on the satellite in January 2012. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our business plan for our satellite broadband services business, or we may not be able to achieve the revenue that we expect from our satellite broadband services business. These risks may increase if we construct or acquire additional satellites. A failure to attract a sufficient number of distributors or customers for our Exede service, or a failure to grow our customer base as quickly as we anticipate, would result in lower revenues and earnings than anticipated and may have a material adverse effect on our operations and revenues in our satellite services segment. Since the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we have incurred significant operating costs in connection with the commencement of our new ViaSat-1 service offerings, including costs associated with our new data center and billing system and connectivity costs for the ViaSat-1 gateways, which have negatively impacted income from operations. With ViaSat-1 now in service, we expect operating income to decline substantially over the next few quarters as depreciation from our ViaSat-1 satellite and related gateway and networking equipment and increased sales and marketing costs will outpace incremental revenue from customers in our satellite services segment. We expect this trend to reverse once our customer base for our broadband satellite services substantially increases, but there can be no assurance that this will occur. In addition, we expect interest expense to increase as we no longer capitalize the interest expense relating to the debt incurred to build ViaSat-1 and the related gateway and networking equipment now that ViaSat-1 is in service. Further, we expect our capital expenditures to increase significantly in the next fiscal year as a result of increased subscriber acquisition costs as our customer base expands. If our business strategy for our satellite services segment does not succeed, we may be unable to recover our significant investments in the ViaSat-1 satellite and related gateways and other capitalized assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We May Be Unable to Obtain Or Maintain Required Authorizations or Contractual Arrangements Governmental authorizations are required in connection with the products and services that we provide. In order to maintain these authorizations, compliance with specific conditions of those authorizations, certain laws and regulations, and the payment of annual regulatory fees may be required. Failure to comply with such requirements, or comply in a timely manner, could lead to the loss of such authorizations and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently hold authorizations to, among other things, operate various satellite earth stations (including but not limited to user terminals, “gateway” facilities, and network hubs) and operate satellite space stations and/or use those space stations to provide service to certain jurisdictions. While we anticipate that these authorizations will be renewed in the ordinary course to the extent that they otherwise would expire, or replaced by authorizations covering more advanced facilities, we can provide no assurance that this will be the case. The inability to timely obtain required authorizations for future operations could delay or preclude our provision of new products and services. Further, changes to the regulations under which we operate could adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain authorizations. Either circumstance could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our operations also rely upon authorizations held by other entities with which we have contractual arrangements. The failure of those entities to maintain their respective authorizations, or the termination or expiration of our contractual arrangements with those entities, could have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our ViaSat-1 satellite operates under authority from the FCC as well as authority granted to ManSat Limited by the governments of the Isle of Man and the United Kingdom, and pursuant to contractual arrangements we have with ManSat Limited that extend past the expected useful life of ViaSat-1. In addition to our ViaSat-1 and WildBlue-1 satellites, we also use Ka-band capacity on the Anik F2 satellite to provide our broadband services under an 19 Table of Contents agreement with Telesat Canada, and we may do so until the end of the useful life of that satellite. Telesat Canada operates that satellite under authority granted to it by the government of Canada. We also currently use the WildBlue-1 satellite, which we own, and which is co-located with Anik F2 under authority granted to Telesat Canada by the government of Canada, and pursuant to an agreement we have with Telesat Canada that expires upon the end of the useful life of Anik F2. While the end of the useful life of Anik F2 is not expected to occur before 2019, there can be no assurance that will be the case. The failure of ManSat Limited or Telesat Canada to maintain their respective authorizations, or the termination or expiration of our contractual arrangements with those entities (including as a result of the premature end of life of Anik F2), could require us to seek alternative satellite capacity for our customers, which may not be available, or which may require the costly and time-consuming process of repointing the antennas of our customers. Our International Sales and Operations Are Subject to Applicable Laws Relating to Trade, Export Controls and Foreign Corrupt Practices, the Violation of Which Could Adversely Affect Our Operations We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us include the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The export of certain satellite hardware, services and technical data relating to satellites is regulated by the U.S. Department of State under ITAR. Other items are controlled for export by the U.S. Department of Commerce under the EAR. We cannot provide services to certain countries subject to U.S. trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally bars bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, more extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. A violation of ITAR or the other regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the Regulatory Environment Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Competitive Position, Growth and Financial Performance The provision of wireless and satellite communications and secure networking products and services is highly regulated. Our business is subject to the regulatory authority of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Those authorities regulate, among other things, the launch and operation of satellites, the use of radio spectrum, the licensing of earth stations and other radio transmitters, the provision of communications services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of communications systems and networking infrastructure. We cannot predict when or whether applicable laws or regulations may come into effect or change, or what the cost and time necessary to comply with such new or updated laws or regulations may be. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in the imposition of financial penalties against us, the adverse modification or cancellation of required authorizations, or other material adverse actions. Laws and regulations affecting the wireless and satellite communications and secure networking industries are subject to change in response to industry developments, new technology, and political considerations. Legislators and regulatory authorities in various countries are considering, and may in the future adopt, new laws, policies and regulations, as well as changes to existing regulations, regarding a variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations or the operations of our distribution partners, increase the cost of providing our products and services and make our products less competitive in our core markets. For example, in November 2011, the FCC adopted an order establishing a new universal service funding mechanism to support the provision of voice and broadband services in certain high-cost areas of the United States, to be known as the CAF. Among other things, the new CAF mechanism would grant incumbent wireline carriers rights of first refusal allowing them to secure the vast majority of available support, to the exclusion of competitive service providers. Satellite broadband providers would be eligible for much more limited funding, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage in the provision of broadband services in rural areas. The CAF mechanism has not yet been fully implemented, and the FCC has sought further public comment with respect to certain details of implementation. Moreover, the FCC order establishing the CAF is the subject of pending petitions for reconsideration filed with the FCC, as well as pending judicial appeals. As such, it is uncertain how and when the CAF will be implemented, and how such implementation could impact satellite broadband providers. If the CAF, as implemented, were to give incumbents a competitive advantage in providing broadband services in supported areas, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to laws and regulations could materially harm our business by (1) affecting our ability to obtain or retain required governmental authorizations, (2) restricting our ability to provide certain products or services, (3) restricting development efforts by us and our customers, (4) making our current products and services less attractive or obsolete, (5) increasing our operational costs, or (6) 20 Table of Contents making it easier or less expensive for our competitors to compete with us. Changes in, or our failure to comply with, applicable laws and regulations could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Our Operating Results Are Difficult to Predict Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to do so in the future. The factors that cause our quarter-to-quarter operating results to be unpredictable include: • varying subscriber addition and churn rates for our consumer broadband business; • the mix of wholesale and retail subscriber additions in our consumer broadband business; • a complex and lengthy procurement process for most of our customers and potential customers; • changes in the levels of research and development spending, including the effects of associated tax credits; • cost overruns on fixed-price development contracts; • the difficulty in estimating costs over the life of a contract, which may require adjustment in future periods; • the timing, quantity and mix of products and services sold; • price discounts given to some customers; • market acceptance and the timing of availability of our new products and services; • the timing of customer payments for significant contracts; • one-time charges to operating income arising from items such as acquisition expenses, impairment of assets and write-offs of assets related to customer non-payments or obsolescence; • the failure to receive an expected order or a deferral of an order to a later period; and • general economic and political conditions. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, it is likely that in one or more future quarters our results may fall below the expectations of analysts and investors, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease. Our Reliance on U.S. Government Contracts Exposes Us to Significant Risks Our government systems segment revenues were approximately 45% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2012, 48% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2011 and 56% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2010, and were derived primarily from U.S. government applications. Therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. government would significantly reduce our revenue. U.S. government business exposes us to various risks, including: • changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies, which may reflect military and political developments; • unexpected contract or project terminations or suspensions; • unpredictable order placements, reductions or cancellations; • reductions or delays in government funds available for our projects due to government policy changes, budget cuts or delays, changes in available funding, reductions in government defense expenditures and contract adjustments; 21 Table of Contents • the ability of competitors to protest contractual awards; • penalties arising from post-award contract audits; • the reduction in the value of our contracts as a result of the routine audit and investigation of our costs by U.S. government agencies; • higher-than-expected final costs, particularly relating to software and hardware development, for work performed under contracts where we commit to specified deliveries for a fixed price; • limited profitability from cost-reimbursement contracts under which the amount of profit is limited to a specified amount; • unpredictable cash collections of unbilled receivables that may be subject to acceptance of contract deliverables by the customer and contract close-out procedures, including government approval of final indirect rates; • competition with programs managed by other government contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding; • significant changes in contract scheduling or program structure, which generally result in delays or reductions in deliveries; and • intense competition for available U.S. government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business, including the establishment of compliance procedures. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. Substantially all of our U.S. government backlog scheduled for delivery can be terminated at the convenience of the U.S. government because our contracts with the U.S. government typically provide that orders may be terminated with limited or no penalties. If we are unable to address any of the risks described above, or if we were to lose all or a substantial portion of our sales to the U.S. government, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. In the event that appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. From time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, Congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. During such period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and such delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected by a Negative Audit by the U.S. Government As a government contractor, we are routinely subject to audit and review by the DCMA, the DCAA and other U.S. government agencies of our performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, accounting and management internal control business systems, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. Both contractors and the U.S. government agencies conducting these audits and reviews have come under increased scrutiny. In particular, audits and reviews have become more rigorous and the standards to which we are held are being more strictly interpreted, increasing the likelihood of an audit or review resulting in an adverse outcome. Increases in congressional scrutiny and investigations into business practices and major programs supported by contractors may lead to increased legal costs and may harm our reputation and profitability if we are among the targeted companies. 22 Table of Contents An adverse outcome to a review or audit or other failure to comply with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards could result in material civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions being imposed on us, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, significant customer refunds, fines and suspension, or a prohibition on doing business with U.S. government agencies. In addition, if we fail to obtain an “adequate” determination of our various accounting and management internal control business systems from applicable U.S. government agencies or if allegations of impropriety are made against us, we could suffer serious harm to our business or our reputation, including our ability to bid on new contracts or receive contract renewals and our competitive position in the bidding process. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our incurred cost audits by the DCAA have not been completed for fiscal year 2003 and subsequent fiscal years. Although we have recorded contract revenues subsequent to fiscal year 2002 based upon an estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments, and if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, based on various factors, including communications with the DCMA, changes in the regulatory environment for federal government contractors and the status of current government audits, we recorded an additional $5.0 million in contract-related reserves for our estimate of potential refunds to customers for potential cost adjustments on several multi-year U.S. government cost reimbursable contracts, bringing our total reserve to $6.7 million as of March 30, 2012. These reserves are classified as either an element of accrued liabilities or as a reduction of unbilled accounts receivable based on status of the related contracts. There can be no assurance that audits or reviews of our incurred costs and cost accounting systems for other fiscal years will not be subject to further audit, review or scrutiny by the DCAA or other government agencies. The Global Business Environment Could Negatively Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by the global business environment and economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, consumer credit conditions, consumer debt levels, consumer confidence, rates of inflation, unemployment rates, energy costs, geopolitical issues and other macro-economic factors. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term or widespread economic downturn or recession and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior have contributed to diminished expectations for the U.S. and global economy. The current economic environment may materially adversely affect our business and financial performance in a number of ways. For example, high unemployment levels or energy costs may impact our consumer customer base in our satellite services segment by reducing consumers’ discretionary income and affecting their ability to subscribe to our broadband services. Our commercial networks segment similarly depends on the economic health and willingness of our customers and potential customers to make and adhere to capital and financial commitments to purchase our products and services. During periods of slowing global economic growth or recession, our customers or key suppliers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, difficulty obtaining financing or insolvency. Existing or potential customers may reduce or postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. If global economic conditions continue to be volatile or deteriorate, we could experience reduced demand for, and pricing pressure on, our products and services, which could lead to a reduction in our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, U.S. credit markets have in recent years experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions. Uncertainty or volatility in credit or capital markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt or equity financing or to refinance existing indebtedness in the future on favorable terms or at all. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A Significant Portion of Our Revenues Is Derived from a Few of Our Contracts A small number of our contracts account for a significant percentage of our revenues. Our five largest contracts generated approximately 20% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2012, 21% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2011 and 25% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2010. Our largest revenue producing contracts are related to our tactical data links products, including our MIDS terminals, which generated approximately 10% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2012, 13% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2011 and 19% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2010. The failure of these customers or any of our key distributors to place additional orders or to maintain their contracts with us for any reason, including any downturn in their business or financial condition 23 Table of Contents or our inability to renew our contracts with these customers or obtain new contracts when they expire, could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. A number of our commercial customers have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulties. Many of our commercial customers face risks that are similar to those we encounter, including risks associated with market growth, product defects, acceptance by the market of products and services, and the ability to obtain sufficient capital. Further, many of our customers and strategic partners that provide satellite-based services (including Xplornet and Eutelsat) could be materially affected by a satellite failure as well as by partial satellite failure, satellite performance degradation, satellite manufacturing errors and other failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. We cannot assure you that our customers will be successful in managing these risks. If our customers do not successfully manage these types of risks, it could impair our ability to generate revenues and collect amounts due from these customers and materially harm our business. Our Development Contracts May Be Difficult for Us to Comply with and May Expose Us to Third-Party Claims for Damages We are often party to government and commercial contracts involving the development of new products. We derived approximately 26% of our total revenues for each of the fiscal years 2012 and 2011 and 14% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2010 from these development contracts. These contracts typically contain strict performance obligations and project milestones. We cannot assure you we will comply with these performance obligations or meet these project milestones in the future. If we are unable to comply with these performance obligations or meet these milestones, our customers may terminate these contracts and, under some circumstances, recover damages or other penalties from us. We are not currently, nor have we always been, in compliance with all outstanding performance obligations and project milestones in our contracts. We cannot assure you that the other parties to any such contract will not terminate the contract or seek damages from us. If other parties elect to terminate their contracts or seek damages from us, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Our Success Depends on the Investment in and Development of New Satellite and Wireless Communications and Secure Networking Products and Our Ability to Gain Acceptance of these Products The wireless and satellite communications and secure networking markets are subject to rapid technological change, frequent new and enhanced product and service introductions, product obsolescence and changes in user requirements. Our ability to compete successfully in these markets depends on our success in applying our expertise and technology to existing and emerging satellite and wireless communications and secure networking markets, as well as our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis that respond to ever-changing customer requirements, which depends on several factors, including: • our ability to enhance our product and service offerings by increasing service quality and adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; • successful integration of various elements of our complex technologies and system architectures; • timely completion and introduction of new system and product designs; • achievement of acceptable product and service costs; • timely and efficient implementation of our manufacturing and assembly processes and cost reduction efforts; • establishment of close working relationships with major customers for the design of their new communications and secure networking systems incorporating our products and services; • development of competitive products, services and technologies by existing and new competitors; • marketing and pricing strategies of our competitors with respect to competitive products and services; and • market acceptance of our new products and services. We cannot assure you that our new technology, product or service offerings will be successful or that any of the new technologies, products or services we offer will achieve sufficient market acceptance. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us 24 Table of Contents from successfully selecting, developing, manufacturing or marketing new technologies, products or services, and these efforts could divert our attention and resources from other projects. We cannot be sure that such efforts and expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or divert resources from other projects. In addition, defects may be found in our products after we begin deliveries that could result in degradation of service quality, and the delay or loss of market acceptance. If we are unable to design, manufacture, integrate and market profitable new products and services for existing or emerging markets, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and impair the value of our common stock. In addition, we believe that significant investments in next generation broadband satellites and associated infrastructure will be required for satellite-based technologies to compete more effectively with terrestrial-based technologies in the consumer and enterprise markets. We are constantly evaluating the opportunities and investments related to the development of these next generation broadband systems. The development of these capital-intensive next generation systems may require us to undertake debt financing and/or the issuance of additional equity, which could expose us to increased risks and impair the value of our common stock. In addition, if we are unable to effectively or profitably design, manufacture, integrate and market such next generation technologies, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and impair the value of our common stock. Because Our Products Are Complex and Are Deployed in Complex Environments, Our Products May Have Defects that We Discover Only After Full Deployment, which Could Seriously Harm Our Business We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains defects or programming flaws that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. In addition, our products are complex and are designed to be deployed across complex networks, which in some cases may include over a million users. Because of the nature of these products, there is no assurance that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects. As a result, our customers may discover errors or defects in our hardware or software, or our products may not operate as expected after they have been fully deployed. If we are unable to cure a product defect, we could experience damage to our reputation, reduced customer satisfaction, loss of existing customers and failure to attract new customers, failure to achieve market acceptance, cancellation of orders, loss of revenue, reduction in backlog and market share, increased service and warranty costs, diversion of development resources, legal actions by our customers, product returns or recalls, issuance of credit to customers and increased insurance costs. Further, due to the high volume nature of our consumer broadband business, defects of products in this business could significantly increase these risks. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could also result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could seek damages for related losses from us, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly. The occurrence of any of these problems would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Reputation and Business Could Be Materially Harmed as a Result of Data Breaches, Data Theft, Unauthorized Access or Hacking Our success depends, in part, on the secure and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. An increasing number of companies have recently disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on their computer networks. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If unauthorized parties gain access to our information technology systems, they may be able to misappropriate assets or sensitive information (such as personally identifiable information of our customers, business partners and employees), cause interruption in our operations, corruption of data or computers, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties, or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy rules. Any compromise of our security could result in a loss of confidence in our security measures, and subject us to litigation, civil or criminal penalties, and adverse publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we are unable to comply with the security standards established by banks and the payment card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions, and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could adversely affect our operations. We May Experience Losses from Our Fixed-Price Contracts Of our total government systems and commercial networks segments revenues, approximately 93% in fiscal year 2012, 95% in fiscal year 2011 and 91% in fiscal year 2010 were derived from contracts with fixed prices. These contracts carry the risk of potential 25 Table of Contents cost overruns because we assume all of the cost burden. We assume greater financial risk on fixed-price contracts than on other types of contracts because if we do not anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract, it may significantly reduce our net profit or cause a loss on the contract. In the past, we have experienced significant cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts. For example, in June 2010, we performed extensive integration testing of numerous system components that had been separately developed as part of a government satellite communication program. As a result of this testing and subsequent internal reviews and analyses, we determined that significant additional rework was required in order to complete the program requirements and specifications and to prepare for a scheduled customer test in our fiscal second quarter. This additional rework and engineering effort resulted in a substantial increase in estimated labor and material costs to complete the program. Accordingly, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded an additional forward loss of $8.5 million related to this estimate of program costs. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. We believe a high percentage of our contracts will be at fixed prices in the future. Although we attempt to accurately estimate costs for fixed-price contracts, we cannot assure you our estimates will be adequate or that substantial losses on fixed-price contracts will not occur in the future. If we are unable to address any of the risks described above, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and impair the value of our common stock. Our Reliance on a Limited Number of Third Parties to Manufacture and Supply Our Products and the Components Contained therein Exposes Us to Various Risks Our internal manufacturing capacity is limited and we do not intend to expand our capability in the foreseeable future. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to produce our products and expect to rely increasingly on these manufacturers in the future. In addition, some components, subassemblies and services necessary for the manufacture of our products are obtained from a sole source supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on contract manufacturers and on sole source suppliers or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks. We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of required components, and our control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and quality of finished products may be reduced. The process of manufacturing our products and some of our components and subassemblies is extremely complex. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience delays in the delivery of and quality problems with products and components and subassemblies from vendors. Some of the suppliers we rely upon have relatively limited financial and other resources. Some of our vendors have manufacturing facilities in areas that may be prone to natural disasters and other natural occurrences that may affect their ability to perform and deliver under our contract. If we are not able to obtain timely deliveries of components and subassemblies of acceptable quality or if we are otherwise required to seek alternative sources of supply or to substitute alternative technology, or to manufacture our finished products or components and subassemblies internally, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. This failure could also result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. The Markets We Serve Are Highly Competitive and Our Competitors May Have Greater Resources than Us The wireless and satellite communications and secure networking industries are highly competitive and competition is increasing. In addition, because the markets in which we operate are constantly evolving and characterized by rapid technological change, it is difficult for us to predict whether, when and by whom new competing technologies, products or services may be introduced into our markets. Currently, we face substantial competition in each of our business segments. In our satellite services and commercial networks segments, we compete with Astrium, AT&T, CenturyLink, Clearwire, Earthlink, Frontier, Gilat, EchoStar (Hughes Communications), iDirect Technologies, Inmarsat, Panasonic, SS/L, Thales and Verizon, each of which offers a broad range of satellite or terrestrial communications products and services, and with other internet service providers in areas where such competing services are available. Our principal competitors in the supply of antenna systems are ASC Signal, General Dynamics, L-3 Communications and Zodiac Data Systems. Within our government systems segment, we generally compete with manufacturers of defense electronics products, systems or subsystems, such as BAE Systems, General Dynamics, Harris, L-3 Communications, Rockwell Collins and similar companies. The overall number of our competitors may increase, and the identity and composition of competitors may change. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. Many of 26 Table of Contents our competitors and potential competitors have significant competitive advantages, including strong customer relationships, more experience with regulatory compliance, greater financial and management resources and access to technologies not available to us. In addition, our satellite services segment may face increasing competition as a result of recent industry consolidation and vertical integration, which may enable our competitors to provide competing services to broader customer segments or to offer bundled service offerings that we are not able to duplicate, or which may reduce demand for our wholesale broadband internet services. In addition, some of our customers continuously evaluate whether to develop and manufacture their own products and could elect to compete with us at any time. Our ability to compete may be adversely affected by limits on our capital resources and our ability to invest in maintaining and expanding our market share. Any Failure to Successfully Integrate Strategic Acquisitions Could Adversely Affect Our Business In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: • the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; • the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; • the risk of diverting our resources and the attention of our senior management from the operations of our business; • additional demands on management related to the increase in the size and scope of our company following any given acquisition; • the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; • difficulties in combining corporate cultures; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of key employees; • difficulties in maintaining relationships with present and potential customers, distributors and suppliers of the acquired business; • costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities of the acquired business; • delays, difficulties or unexpected costs in the integration, assimilation, implementation or modification of platforms, systems, functions, technologies and infrastructure to support the combined business, as well as maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal accounting controls), procedures and policies; • the risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures or indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses or the capital expenditures needed to develop such businesses; • the risks of entering markets in which we have less experience; and • the risks of potential disputes concerning indemnities and other obligations that could result in substantial costs. To complete future acquisitions we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could cause our earnings per share to decline. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and we cannot be certain that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not know whether we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future or that any strategic investments we make will meet our financial or other investment objectives. Any failure to do so could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Our Level of Indebtedness May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Operate Our Business, Remain in Compliance with Debt Covenants, React to Changes in Our Business or the Industry in which We Operate, or Prevent Us from Making Payments on Our Indebtedness As of March 30, 2012, our total indebtedness was $552.0 million, which included $275.0 million in principal amount outstanding of 8.875% Senior Notes due 2016 (the 2016 Notes), $275.0 million in principal amount outstanding of 6.875% Senior Notes due 2020 (the 2020 Notes, and collectively with the 2016 Notes, the Senior Notes) and $2.0 million of capital lease obligations. We had no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) as of March 30, 2012. This high level of indebtedness could have important consequences for you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satellite construction, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, product development, satellite construction, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions. Any of these risks could materially impact our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Incur Additional Indebtedness, which Could Further Increase the Risks Associated with Our Leverage We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, which may include financing relating to future satellites, potential acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. As of March 30, 2012, we had undrawn availability of $313.4 million under our Credit Facility. In addition, our Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes permit us, subject to specified limitations, to incur additional indebtedness. In March 2010, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC for the future sale of an unlimited amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and rights. The securities may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us, by selling security holders, or through underwriters, dealers and agents at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of the offering. If new indebtedness is added to our current level of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We May Not Be Able to Generate Sufficient Cash to Service All of Our Indebtedness and Fund Our Working Capital and Capital Expenditures, and May Be Forced to Take Other Actions to Satisfy Our Obligations under Our Indebtedness, which May Not Be Successful Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Facility, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investment and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the 28 Table of Contents disposition, and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to repay or service our indebtedness. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, the lenders under our Credit Facility and the holders of the Senior Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our Credit Facility could terminate their commitments to loan money and foreclose against the assets securing the borrowings under our Credit Facility, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could result in you losing your investment in our company. We May Be Unable to Refinance Our Indebtedness We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity, including indebtedness under the indentures governing the Senior Notes and any indebtedness under our Credit Facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Covenants in Our Debt Agreements Restrict Our Business and Could Limit Our Ability to Implement Our Business Plan Our Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes contain covenants that may restrict our ability to implement our business plan, finance future operations, respond to changing business and economic conditions, secure additional financing, and engage in opportunistic transactions, such as strategic acquisitions. In addition, if we fail to satisfy the covenants contained in our Credit Facility, our ability to borrow under our Credit Facility may be restricted. Our Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to do the following: • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • grant or incur liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • make loans and investments; • pay dividends, make distributions, or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • reduce our satellite insurance; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. In addition, our Credit Facility requires us to comply with certain financial covenants, including a maximum total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio. Our Credit Facility is secured by first-priority liens on substantially all the assets of the company, including the stock of our subsidiaries, and the assets of the subsidiary guarantors under the facility. If we default under our Credit Facility or any of the indentures governing the Senior Notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. In the past we have violated our Credit Facility covenants and received waivers for these violations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with our financial or other covenants under our Credit Facility or any of the indentures governing the Senior Notes or that any covenant violations will be waived in the future. Any violation that is not waived could result in an event of default, permitting our lenders to declare outstanding indebtedness and interest thereon due and payable, and permitting the lenders under our Credit Facility to suspend commitments to make any advance or to require any outstanding letters of credit to be collateralized by an interest bearing cash account, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts under our Credit Facility or any of the indentures governing the Senior Notes, and any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents We Depend on a Limited Number of Key Employees who Would Be Difficult to Replace We depend on a limited number of key technical, marketing and management personnel to manage and operate our business. In particular, we believe our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mark Dankberg, and those highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and the development of new products and processes. The competition for these types of personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. Because We Conduct Business Internationally, We Face Additional Risks Related to Global Political and Economic Conditions, Changes in Regulation and Currency Fluctuations Approximately 21% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2012, 17% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2011 and 19% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2010 were derived from international sales. We anticipate international sales will account for an increasing percentage of our total revenues over the next several years. Many of these international sales may be denominated in foreign currencies. Because we do not currently engage in, nor do we anticipate engaging in, material foreign currency hedging transactions related to international sales, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in losses from transactions denominated in foreign currencies. This decrease in value could also make our products less price-competitive. There are additional risks in conducting business internationally, including: • unexpected changes in laws, policies and regulatory requirements, including but not limited to regulations related to import-export control; • increased cost of localizing systems in foreign countries; • increased sales and marketing and research and development expenses; • availability of suitable export financing; • timing and availability of export licenses; • imposition of taxes, tariffs, embargoes and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • compliance with a variety of international laws and U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in managing distributors; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • potential difficulty in making adequate payment arrangements; and • potential difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. In addition, some of our customer purchase agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from U.S. laws. We may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under these agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. If we are unable to address any of the risks described above, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents Our Ability to Protect Our Proprietary Technology Is Limited Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies we use in our products and services. We generally rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secret laws and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality and assignment of intellectual property agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could use the intellectual property we have developed to enhance their own products and services, which could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. From time to time, we undertake actions to prevent unauthorized use of our technology, including sending cease and desist letters. In addition, we may be required to commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. For example, see “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 for a discussion of certain patent infringement litigation relating to our satellites. If we are unsuccessful in any such litigation, our rights to enforce such intellectual property may be impaired or we could lose some or all of our rights to such intellectual property. We do not know whether the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, including in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as extensively as in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products. Also, we have delivered certain technical data and information to the U.S. government under procurement contracts, and the U.S. government may have unlimited rights to use that technical data and information. There can be no assurance that the U.S. government will not authorize others to use that data and information to compete with us. Our Involvement in Litigation Relating to Intellectual Property Claims May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business We may be party to intellectual property infringement, invalidity, right to use or ownership claims by third parties or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims. Regardless of the merit of these claims, intellectual property litigation can be time consuming and costly and may result in the diversion of the attention of technical and management personnel. An adverse result in any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in May 2009 we and certain other equipment manufacturers were sued by Applied Signal Technology (now a subsidiary of Raytheon) in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California for alleged infringement of certain patents. We have developed and maintain a portfolio of patents in the same field of technology as the plaintiff’s patents, and although we intend to vigorously defend against this suit, there can be no assurance that any resolution will not be adverse to us. Asserted claims or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products, or components of those products. If our products are found to infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be forced to (1) seek licenses or royalty arrangements from such third parties, (2) stop selling, incorporating or using products that included the challenged intellectual property, or (3) incur substantial costs to redesign those products that use the technology. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain any such licenses or royalty arrangements on reasonable terms or at all or to develop redesigned products or, if these redesigned products were developed, they would perform as required or be accepted in the applicable markets. We Rely on the Availability of Third-Party Licenses Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various elements of the technology used to develop these products. We cannot assure you that our existing or future third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to maintain or obtain any third-party license required to sell or develop our products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost. Adverse Resolution of Litigation May Harm Our Operating Results or Financial Condition We are a party to various lawsuits and claims in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Future Sales of Our Common Stock Could Lower Our Stock Price and Dilute Existing Stockholders In March 2010, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC for the future sale of an unlimited amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and rights. The securities may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us, by selling security holders, or through underwriters, dealers or agents at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of the offering. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions through the use of equity. For example, during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 we issued approximately 4.29 million shares of our common stock to former WildBlue equity and debt holders in connection with our acquisition of WildBlue. Additionally, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are available for future sale pursuant to stock options, warrants or issuance pursuant to our 1996 Equity Participation Plan of ViaSat, Inc. and the ViaSat, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options and warrants or in connection with acquisition financing), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, these sales may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We Expect Our Stock Price to Be Volatile, and You May Lose All or Some of Your Investment The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past. For example, since April 2, 2001, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $3.91 to $49.80. Trading prices may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in operating results and announcements of innovations; • new products, services and strategic developments by us or our competitors; • developments in our relationships with our customers, distributors and suppliers; • regulatory developments; • changes in our revenues, expense levels or profitability; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts; • changes in the satellite and wireless communications and secure networking industries; and • changes in the economy. Any of these events may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for technology companies in particular have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our Executive Officers and Directors Own a Large Percentage of Our Common Stock and Exert Significant Influence over Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval As of May 16, 2012, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 12% of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders may be able to substantially influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of these stockholders could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. These stockholders could delay or prevent a change in control of ViaSat even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our other stockholders. 32 Table of Contents We Have Implemented Anti-Takeover Provisions that Could Prevent an Acquisition of Our Business at a Premium Price Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our business, even if a change in control of ViaSat would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders and was made at a premium price. These provisions: • permit the board of directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies; • provide for a board comprised of three classes of directors with each class serving a staggered three-year term; • authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock in one or more series; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 