ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Owning and Operating Satellites Involve Considerable Risks In January 2008, we executed an agreement to purchase ViaSat-1, our first broadband satellite, and we may acquire one or more additional satellites in the future. We also plan to develop next generation SurfBeam ground infrastructure and terminals for use with such satellites. We currently plan to launch our ViaSat-1 satellite in early 2011 and introduce service later in 2011. If we are unable to have manufactured or successfully launch a satellite or implement our satellite service business in a timely manner, or at all, 15 Table of Contents as a result of any of the following risks, we will be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our satellite and associated services business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected: • Cost and Schedule Risks. The cost of completing satellites and developing the associated next generation SurfBeam ground infrastructure may be more than anticipated and there may be delays in completing satellites and SurfBeam infrastructure within the expected timeframe. We may be required to spend in excess of our current forecast for the completion, launch and launch insurance of the ViaSat-1 satellite or for the development associated with the next generation SurfBeam equipment. The construction and launch of satellites are often subject to delays, including satellite and launch vehicle construction delays, cost overruns, periodic unavailability of reliable launch opportunities, and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. If the satellite construction schedule is not met, there may be even further delays because there can be no assurance that a launch opportunity will be available at the time the satellite is ready to be launched and we may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory authority or International Telecommunication Union (ITU) priority necessary to implement the satellite as proposed. • Business Plan. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our business plan for satellite services, or we may not be able to achieve the revenue that we expect from our satellite services segment. A failure to attract either distributors or customers in a sufficient number would result in lower revenues than anticipated. In addition, we will incur losses associated with the launch and operation of satellite services until we acquire a sufficient number of customers, which may not occur as expected or at all. • Regulatory Risk. If we do not obtain all requisite regulatory approvals for the construction, launch and operation of any satellite we acquire, or the licenses obtained impose operational restrictions on us, our ability to generate revenue and profits could be materially adversely affected. In addition, under certain circumstances, government licenses are subject to revocation or modification, and upon expiration, renewal may not be granted. In certain cases, satellite system operators are obligated by governmental regulation and procedures of the ITU to coordinate the operation of their systems with other users of the radio spectrum in order to avoid causing interference to those other users. Coordination may require a satellite system operator to reduce power, avoid operating on certain frequencies, relocate its satellite to another orbital location and/or otherwise modify planned or existing operations. Satellite authorizations granted by the FCC or foreign regulatory agencies are typically subject to conditions imposed by such regulatory agency in addition to such agency’s general authority to modify, cancel or revoke those authorizations. Failure to comply with such requirements, or comply in a timely manner, could lead to the loss of authorizations and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue. • Launch Risks. There are risks associated with the launch of satellites, including launch failure, damage or destruction during launch and improper orbital placement. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take up to 36 months, and obtain other launch opportunities. The overall historical loss rate in the satellite industry for all launches of commercial satellites in fixed orbits in the last five years is estimated by some industry participants to be 10% but could at any time be higher. • In-Orbit Risks. Any satellite we acquire will be subject to similar potential satellite failures or performance degradations as with other satellites. Satellites are subject to in-orbit risks including malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris. Anomalies occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturing errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh space environment. To the extent there is an anomaly or other in-orbit failure with respect to the ViaSat-1 satellite or any other satellite we may acquire, we may not have a replacement satellite. • Minimum Design Life. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of the ViaSat-1 satellite and any other satellite we may acquire in the future. Each satellite has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. The minimum design life of ViaSat-1 is estimated to be 15 years. In addition, continued improvements in satellite technology may obsolete the ViaSat-1 satellite or any other satellite we may acquire prior to the end of its life. Therefore, we can provide no assurance as to the actual useful life of ViaSat-1 or any other satellite that we may acquire. • Insurance Risks. We intend to seek launch and in-orbit insurance for the ViaSat-1 satellite and for any other satellite we may acquire, but we may not be able to obtain insurance on reasonable economic terms or at all. If we are able to obtain insurance, it will contain customary exclusions and will not likely cover the full cost of constructing and launching the satellite, nor will it cover business interruptions or similar losses. In addition, the occurrence of any anomalies on other satellites, including Ka-band satellites, may materially adversely affect our ability to insure the satellite at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. 16 Table of Contents • Joint Venture Risks. We may own or operate future broadband satellites through joint ventures which we do not control. If we were to enter into any such joint venture, the entities or persons that control such joint venture may have interests and goals that are inconsistent or different from ours, which could result in any such joint venture taking actions that negatively impact our business or financial condition. In addition, if any other members of such joint venture were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise fail to perform its obligations or to manage the joint venture effectively, this could cause us to lose our investment in any such joint venture entity. A Significant Portion of Our Revenues Is Derived from a Few of Our Contracts A small number of our contracts account for a significant percentage of our revenues. Our largest revenue producing contracts are related to our tactical data links (which includes MIDS) products which generated approximately 24% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008, 23% of our revenues in fiscal year 2007 and 24% of our revenues in fiscal year 2006. Our five largest contracts generated approximately 44% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008, 46% of our revenues in fiscal year 2007 and 44% of our revenues in fiscal year 2006. Further, we derived approximately 7% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008, 15% of our revenues in fiscal year 2007 and 19% of our revenues in fiscal year 2006 from sales of VSAT communications networks. The failure of these customers to place additional orders or to maintain these contracts with us for any reason, including any downturn in their business or financial condition, or our inability to renew our contracts with these customers or obtain new contracts when they expire, could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. If Our Customers Experience Financial or Other Difficulties, Our Business Could Be Materially Harmed A number of our commercial customers have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulties. Many of our commercial customers face risks that are similar to those we encounter, including risks associated with market growth, product defects, acceptance by the market of products and services, and the ability to obtain sufficient capital. Further, many of our customers that provide satellite based services (including WildBlue, Telesat, Intelsat, Shin Satellite, Eutelsat and ARINC) could be materially affected by a satellite failure as well as by partial satellite failure, satellite performance degradation, satellite manufacturing errors, and other failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh space environment. We cannot assure you that our customers will be successful in managing these risks. If our customers do not successfully manage these types of risks, it could impair our ability to generate revenues, collect amounts due from these customers and materially harm our business. Major communications infrastructure programs, such as proposed satellite communications systems, are important sources of our current and planned future revenues. We also participate in a number of defense programs. Programs of these types often cannot proceed unless the customer can raise substantial funds, from either governmental or private sources. As a result, our expected revenues can be adversely affected by political developments or by conditions in private and public capital markets. They can also be adversely affected if capital markets are not receptive to a customer’s proposed business plans. If our customers are unable to raise adequate funds it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Our Development Contracts May Be Difficult for Us to Comply With and May Expose Us to Third-Party Claims for Damages We are often party to government and commercial contracts involving the development of new products. We derived approximately 20% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008, 24% of our revenues in fiscal year 2007 and 25% of our revenues in fiscal year 2006 from these development contracts. These contracts typically contain strict performance obligations and project milestones. We cannot assure you we will comply with these performance obligations or meet these project milestones in the future. If we are unable to comply with these performance obligations or meet these milestones, our customers may terminate these contracts and, under some circumstances, recover damages or other penalties from us. We are not currently, nor have we always been, in compliance with all outstanding performance obligations and project milestones. In the past, when we have not complied with the performance obligations or project milestones in a contract, generally, the other party has not elected to terminate the contract or seek damages from us. However, we cannot assure you in the future other parties will not terminate their contracts or seek damages from us. If other parties elect to terminate their contracts or seek damages from us, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Our Success Depends on the Investment in and Development of New Satellite and Other Wireless Communications Products and Our Ability to Gain Acceptance of These Products The wireless and satellite communications markets are subject to rapid technological change, frequent new and enhanced product introductions, product obsolescence and changes in user requirements. Our ability to compete successfully in these markets depends on our success in applying our expertise and technology to existing and emerging satellite and other wireless communications markets. Our ability to compete in these markets also depends in large part on our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis that respond to ever-changing customer requirements. Our ability to successfully introduce new products depends on several factors, including: • successful integration of various elements of our complex technologies and system architectures, • timely completion and introduction of new product designs, • achievement of acceptable product costs, • timely and efficient implementation of our manufacturing and assembly processes and cost reduction efforts, • establishment of close working relationships with major customers for the design of their new wireless communications systems incorporating our products, • development of competitive products and technologies by competitors, • marketing and pricing strategies of our competitors with respect to competitive products, and • market acceptance of our new products. We cannot assure you our product or technology development efforts for communications products will be successful or any new products and technologies we develop, will achieve sufficient market acceptance. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from successfully selecting, developing, manufacturing or marketing new products or enhancements. In addition, defects may be found in our products after we begin deliveries that could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance. If we are unable to design, manufacture, integrate and market profitable new products for existing or emerging communications markets, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. In addition, we believe that significant investments in next generation broadband satellites and associated infrastructure will be required for satellite based technologies to compete more effectively with terrestrial based technologies in the consumer and enterprise markets. We are constantly evaluating the opportunities and investments related to the development of these next generation broadband systems. In the event we determine to make a significant investment in the development of such next generation systems, it may require us to undertake debt financing and/or the issuance of additional equity, which could expose us to increased risks and impair the value of our common stock. In addition, if we are unable to effectively or profitably design, manufacture, integrate and market such next generation technologies, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Because Our Products are Complex and are Deployed in Complex Environments, Our Products May Have Defects That We Discover Only After Full Deployment, Which Could Seriously Harm Our Business We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains defects or programming flaws that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. In addition, our products are complex and are designed to be deployed across complex networks. Because of the nature of these products, there is no assurance that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects. As a result, our customers may discover errors or defects in our hardware or software, or our products may not operate as expected, after they have been fully deployed. If we are unable to cure a product defect, we could experience damage to our reputation, reduced customer satisfaction, loss of existing customers and failure to attract new customers, failure to achieve market acceptance, reduced sales opportunities, loss of revenue and market share, increased service and warranty costs, diversion of development resources, legal actions by our customers, and increased insurance costs. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could also result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could seek damages for related losses from us, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly. The occurrence of any of these problems would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We May Experience Losses from Our Fixed-Price Contracts Approximately 86% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008, 84% of our revenues in fiscal years 2007, and 88% of our revenues in 2006 were derived from government and commercial contracts with fixed prices. We assume greater financial risk on fixed-price contracts than on other types of contracts because if we do not anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract, it may significantly reduce our net profit or cause a loss on the contract. In the past, we have experienced significant cost overruns and losses on fixed price contracts. We believe a high percentage of our contracts will be at fixed prices in the future. Although we attempt to accurately estimate costs for fixed-price contracts, we cannot assure you our estimates will be adequate or that substantial losses on fixed-price contracts will not occur in the future. If we are unable to address any of the risks described above, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Our Reliance on a Limited Number of Third Parties to Manufacture and Supply Our Products Exposes Us to Various Risks Our internal manufacturing capacity is limited and we do not intend to expand our capability in the foreseeable future. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to produce our products and expect to rely increasingly on these manufacturers in the future. In addition, some components, subassemblies and services necessary for the manufacture of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on contract manufacturers and on sole suppliers or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks. We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of required components, and our control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and quality of finished products may be reduced. The process of manufacturing our products and some of our components and subassemblies is extremely complex. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience delays in the delivery of and quality problems with products and components and subassemblies from vendors. Some of the suppliers we rely upon have relatively limited financial and other resources. Some of our vendors have manufacturing facilities in areas that may be prone to natural disasters and other natural occurrences that may affect their ability to perform and deliver under our contract. If we are not able to obtain timely deliveries of components and subassemblies of acceptable quality or if we are otherwise required to seek alternative sources of supply, or to manufacture our finished products or components and subassemblies internally, it could delay or prevent us from delivering our systems promptly and at high quality. This failure could damage relationships with current or prospective customers, which, in turn, could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. The Markets We Serve Are Highly Competitive and Our Competitors May Have Greater Resources Than Us The wireless and satellite communications industry is highly competitive and competition is increasing. In addition, because the markets in which we operate are constantly evolving and characterized by rapid technological change, it is difficult for us to predict whether, when and who may introduce new competing technologies, products or services into our markets. Currently, we face substantial competition from domestic and international wireless and ground-based communications service providers in the commercial and government industries. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have significant competitive advantages, including strong customer relationships, more experience with regulatory compliance, greater financial and management resources, and control over central communications networks. In addition, some of our customers continuously evaluate whether to develop and manufacture their own products and could elect to compete with us at any time. Increased competition from any of these or other entities could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. We Depend on a Limited Number of Key Employees Who Would Be Difficult to Replace We depend on a limited number of key technical, marketing and management personnel to manage and operate our business. In particular, we believe our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mark D. Dankberg, and those highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and the development of new products and processes. The competition for these types of personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. We do not have employment agreements with any of our officers. 19 Table of Contents Because We Conduct Business Internationally, We Face Additional Risks Related to Global Political and Economic Conditions and Currency Fluctuations Approximately 18% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008, 16% of our revenues in fiscal year 2007 and 18% of our revenues in fiscal year 2006 were derived from international sales. We anticipate international sales will account for an increasing percentage of our revenues over the next several years. Many of these international sales may be denominated in foreign currencies. Because we do not currently engage in nor do we anticipate engaging in material foreign currency hedging transactions related to international sales, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in losses from transactions denominated in foreign currencies. This decrease in value could also make our products less price-competitive. There are additional risks in conducting business internationally, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, • increased cost of localizing systems in foreign countries, • increased sales and marketing and research and development expenses, • availability of suitable export financing, • timing and availability of export licenses, • tariffs and other trade barriers, • political and economic instability, • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, • difficulties in managing distributors, • potentially adverse tax consequences, • potential difficulty in making adequate payment arrangements, and • potential difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. In addition, some of our customer purchase agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from U.S. laws. We may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under these agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. If we are unable to address any of the risks described above, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Our Operating Results are Difficult to Predict and the Market Price of Our Common Stock May Be Volatile Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to do so in the future. The factors that cause our quarter-to-quarter operating results to be unpredictable include: • a complex and lengthy procurement process for most of our customers or potential customers, • changes in the levels of research and development spending, including the effects of associated tax credits, • cost overruns on fixed price development contracts, • the difficulty in estimating costs over the life of a contract, which may require adjustment in future periods, • the timing, quantity and mix of products and services sold, • price discounts given to some customers, 20 Table of Contents • market acceptance and the timing of availability of our new products, • the timing of customer payments for significant contracts, • one time charges to operating income arising from items such as acquisition expenses, impairment of assets and write-offs of assets related to customer non-payments or obsolescence, • the failure to receive an expected order or a deferral of an order to a later period, and • general economic and political conditions. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, public stock markets have experienced, and may in the future experience, extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, it is likely that in one or more future quarters our results may fall below the expectations of analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. Our Reliance on U.S. Government Contracts Exposes Us to Significant Risks Our government systems segment revenues were approximately 56% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008, 54% of our revenues in fiscal year 2007 and 50% of our revenues in fiscal year 2006, and were derived from U.S. government applications. Our U.S. government business will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. U.S. government business exposes us to various risks, including: • unexpected contract or project terminations or suspensions, • unpredictable order placements, reductions or cancellations, • reductions in government funds available for our projects due to government policy changes, budget cuts and contract adjustments, • the ability of competitors to protest contractual awards, • penalties arising from post-award contract audits, • the reduction in the value of our contracts as a result of the routine audit and investigation of our costs by U.S. government agencies, • higher-than-expected final costs, particularly relating to software and hardware development, for work performed under contracts where we commit to specified deliveries for a fixed price, • limited profitability from cost-reimbursement contracts under which the amount of profit is limited to a specified amount, and • unpredictable cash collections of unbilled receivables that may be subject to acceptance of contract deliverables by the customer and contract close-out procedures, including government approval of final indirect rates. In addition, substantially all of our U.S. government backlog scheduled for delivery can be terminated at the convenience of the U.S. government because our contracts with the U.S. government typically provide that orders may be terminated with limited or no penalties. If we are unable to address any of the risks described above, or if we were to lose all or a substantial portion of our sales to the U.S. government, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Our Credit Facility Contains Restrictions that Could Limit Our Ability to Implement Our Business Plan The restrictions contained in our line of credit may limit our ability to implement our business plan, finance future operations, respond to changing business and economic conditions, secure additional financing, and engage in opportunistic transactions, such as strategic acquisitions. In addition, if we fail to meet the covenants contained in our line of credit, our ability to borrow under our line of credit may be restricted. The line of credit, among other things, restricts our ability to do the following: • incur additional indebtedness, • create liens on our assets, • make certain payments, including payments of dividends in respect of capital stock, • consolidate, merge and sell assets, • engage in certain transactions with affiliates, and • make acquisitions. In addition, the line of credit requires us to satisfy the following financial tests: • minimum EBITDA (income from operations plus depreciation and amortization) for the twelve-month period ending on the last day of any fiscal quarter of $30 million, • minimum tangible net worth as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of $135 million, and • minimum quick ratio (sum of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and marketable securities, divided by current liabilities) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of 1.50 to 1.00. In the past we have violated our credit facility covenants and received waivers for these violations. We cannot assure that we will be able to comply with our financial or other covenants or that any covenant violations will be waived in the future. Any violation not waived could result in an event of default, permitting the lenders to suspend commitments to make any advance, to declare notes and interest thereon due and payable, and to require any outstanding letters of credit to be collateralized by an interest bearing cash account, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with our financial or other covenants, we may need additional financing in order to service or extinguish our indebtedness. We may not be able to obtain financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Recent Disruptions in the Financial Markets Could Affect Our Ability to Obtain Debt or Equity Financing On Reasonable Terms, or At All We may wish to refinance our existing credit facility or raise capital to finance business expansion activities, and our ability to raise debt or equity capital in the public or private markets could be impaired by various factors. For example, U.S. credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. These events in the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the U.S., which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 22 Table of Contents We Expect to Incur Research and Development Costs, Which Could Significantly Reduce Our Profitability Our future growth depends on penetrating new markets, adapting existing communications products to new applications, and introducing new communications products that achieve market acceptance. Accordingly, we are actively applying our communications expertise to design and develop new hardware and software products and enhance existing products. We spent $32.3 million in fiscal year 2008, $21.6 million in fiscal year 2007 and $15.8 million in fiscal year 2006 in research and development activities. We expect to continue to spend discretionary funds on research and development in the near future. The amount of funds spent on research and development projects is dependent on the amount and mix of customer funded development, the types of technology being developed and the affordability of the technology being developed. Because we account for research and development as an operating expense, these expenditures will adversely affect our earnings in the near future. Our research and development program may not produce successful results, which could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Our Ability to Protect Our Proprietary Technology is Limited Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies we use in our products and services. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could use the intellectual property we have developed to enhance their own products and services, which could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. We generally rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as extensively as in the United States. While we are not dependent on any individual patents, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products. Also, we have delivered certain technical data and information to the U.S. government under procurement contracts, and it may have unlimited rights to use that technical data and information. There can be no assurance that the U.S. government will not authorize others to use that data and information to compete with us. We May be Subject to Intellectual Property Infringement Claims That are Costly and Time Consuming to Defend and Could Restrict Our Ability to Conduct Business Litigation may often be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. We believe infringement, invalidity, right to use or ownership claims by third parties or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims will likely be asserted against us in the future. The asserted claims or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products, or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, intellectual property litigation can be time consuming and result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. Any such litigation could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using our products that include the challenged intellectual property, or redesign those products that use the technology. In addition, if a party accuses us of infringing upon its proprietary rights, we may have to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in any such litigation, we could be subject to significant liability for damages and loss of our proprietary rights. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products are found to infringe upon the rights of third parties, we may be forced to incur substantial costs to develop alternative products. We cannot assure you we would be able to develop alternative products or, if these alternative products were developed, they would perform as required or be accepted in the applicable markets. We Rely on the Availability of Third Party Licenses Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various elements of the technology used to develop these products. We cannot assure you that our existing and future third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to maintain or obtain any third-party license required to sell or develop our products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost. 23 Table of Contents Changes in Financial Accounting Standards Related to Stock Option Expenses Have a Significant Effect on Our Reported Results The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a revised standard that requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for employee stock options using the fair value method. The adoption of the new standard from the beginning of fiscal year 2007 has had and will continue to have a significant effect on our reported earnings and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to establish the value of stock options. As a result, the adoption of the new standard in fiscal year 2007 could impair the value of our common stock and result in greater stock price volatility. Any Failure to Successfully Integrate Strategic Acquisitions Could Adversely Affect Our Business In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: • the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner, • the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions, • the risk our markets do not evolve as anticipated and the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets, • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, • the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from the operations of our business, • the risks of entering markets in which we have less experience, and • the risks of potential disputes concerning indemnities and other obligations that could result in substantial costs and further divert management’s attention and resources. Furthermore, to complete future acquisitions we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could cause our earnings per share to decline. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and we cannot be certain that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not know whether we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future or that any strategic investments we make will meet our financial or other investment objectives. Any failure to do so could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exports of Our Defense Products are Subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and Require a License from the U.S. Department of State Prior to Shipment We must comply with the United States Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. Our products that have military or strategic applications are on the munitions list of the ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. Any changes in export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. The length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. Any restriction on the export of a significant product line or a significant amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in net sales. Adverse Regulatory Changes Could Impair Our Ability to Sell Products Our products are incorporated into wireless communications systems that must comply with various domestic and foreign government regulations, including those of the FCC. In addition, we operate and provide services to customers through the use of several satellite earth hub stations, which are licensed by regulatory authorities such as the FCC. Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation of available frequency spectrum and in the military standards and specifications that define the current 24 Table of Contents satellite networking environment, could materially harm our business by (1) restricting development efforts by us and our customers, (2) making our current products less attractive or obsolete, or (3) increasing the opportunity for additional competition. Changes in, or our failure to comply with, applicable regulations could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. In addition, the increasing demand for wireless communications has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for these products and services, generally following extensive investigation of and deliberation over competing technologies. The delays inherent in this government approval process have caused and may continue to cause our customers to cancel, postpone or reschedule their installation of communications systems. This, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our sales of products to our customers. Our Executive Officers and Directors Own a Large Percentage of Our Common Stock and Exert Significant Influence Over Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval As of May 20, 2008, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 16% of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders may be able to influence substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of these stockholders could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. These stockholders could delay or prevent a change in control of our company even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our other stockholders. We Have Implemented Anti-Takeover Provisions That Could Prevent an Acquisition of Our Business at a Premium Price Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our business at a premium price. These provisions: • permit the Board of Directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies, • provide for a Board comprised of three classes of directors with each class serving a staggered three-year term, • authorize the issuance of preferred stock in one or more series, and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. Adverse Resolution of Litigation May Harm Our Operating Results or Financial Condition We are a party to various lawsuits and claims in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. For additional information regarding litigation in which we are involved, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part I of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 