ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Owning and Operating Satellites Involve Considerable Risks In December 2009, we acquired WildBlue and, as a result of such acquisition, we now own and operate WildBlue’s Ka-band satellite (WildBlue-1) and hold an exclusive lifetime lease of Ka-band capacity on Telesat Canada’s Anik F2 satellite in the contiguous United States. In January 2008, we executed an agreement to purchase ViaSat-1, our new high-capacity broadband satellite. We currently plan to launch ViaSat-1 in early 2011 and introduce service on this satellite later in 2011. We may acquire or use one or more additional satellites in the future. We also plan to develop next generation broadband ground infrastructure and terminals for use with these satellites. If we are unable to continue to operate WildBlue-1 or Anik F2, or are unable to manufacture and successfully launch a satellite in a timely manner or at all, as a result of any of the following risks or otherwise, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our satellite and associated services business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected: 16 Table of Contents • Business Plan. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our business plan for the WildBlue business and our satellite services segment as a whole, or we may not be able to achieve the revenue that we expect from our satellite services segment. A failure to attract a sufficient number of distributors or customers would result in lower revenues than anticipated. • In-Orbit Risks. The WildBlue-1 satellite and Telesat Canada’s Anik F2 satellite supporting our WildBlue business are, and any future satellite we acquire will be, subject to potential satellite failures or performance degradations. Satellites are subject to in-orbit risks including malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, interference from electrostatic storms, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris. Anomalies occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturing errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. To the extent there is an anomaly or other in-orbit failure with respect to WildBlue-1, Anik F2, ViaSat-1 or any other satellite we may acquire or use, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our relationships with current customers and distributors, and we may not have or be able to finance or procure a replacement satellite or backup transponder capacity on reasonable economic terms or at all. • Cost and Schedule Risks. The cost of completing satellites and developing the associated next generation SurfBeam 2 ground infrastructure may be more than we anticipate and there may be delays in completing satellites and SurfBeam 2 infrastructure within the expected timeframe. We may be required to spend in excess of our current forecast for the completion, launch and launch insurance of ViaSat-1, or for the development associated with the SurfBeam 2 equipment. The construction and launch of satellites are often subject to delays, including satellite and launch vehicle construction delays, cost overruns, periodic unavailability of reliable launch opportunities and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. If the satellite construction schedule is not met, there may be even further delays because there can be no assurance that a launch opportunity will be available at the time the satellite is ready to be launched, and we may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory authority or ITU priority necessary to implement the satellite as proposed. • Launch Risks. There are risks associated with the launch of satellites, including launch failure, damage or destruction during launch and improper orbital placement. Launch vehicles may under-perform, in which case the satellite may still be placed into service by using its onboard propulsion systems to reach the desired orbital location, resulting in a reduction in its service life. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take up to 36 months, and obtain other launch opportunities. The overall historical loss rate in the satellite industry for all launches of commercial satellites in fixed orbits in the last five years is estimated by some industry participants to be approximately 10% but could at any time be higher. • Satellite Life. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of WildBlue-1, ViaSat-1, Anik F2 and any other satellite we may acquire in the future. Each satellite has a limited useful life. The period of time during which a satellite is expected to function in accordance with its specifications is referred to as such satellite’s design life. The design life of ViaSat-1 is 15 years from launch. The design life of WildBlue-1 was 12 years from launch, ending in 2019, and the design life of Telesat Canada’s Anik F2 satellite was 15 years from launch, ending in 2019. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their design and construction, the durability of their component parts and back-up units, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion, the occurrence of any anomaly or series of anomalies affecting the satellite, and the launch risks and in-orbit risks described above. There can be no assurance that the actual useful life of ViaSat-1, WildBlue-1, Anik F2 or any other satellite that we may acquire will equal its design life. In addition, continued improvements in satellite technology may make obsolete ViaSat-1 or any other satellite we may acquire prior to the end of its life. • Insurance Risks. We currently hold in-orbit insurance for WildBlue-1 and Anik F2 and launch insurance for ViaSat-1, and intend to seek in-orbit insurance for ViaSat-1 as well as for any satellite we may acquire, but we may not be able to obtain insurance, or renew existing insurance, on reasonable economic terms or at all. If we are able to obtain or renew our insurance, it will contain customary exclusions and will not likely cover the full cost of constructing and launching or replacing the satellites, nor will it cover business interruptions or similar losses. In addition, the occurrence of any anomalies on other satellites, including other Ka-band satellites, or any failures of a satellite using similar components or failures of a similar launch vehicle to the launch vehicle we expect to use to launch ViaSat-1, may materially adversely affect our ability to insure the satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. 17 Table of Contents • Joint Venture Risks. We may own or operate future satellites through joint ventures that we do not control. If we were to enter into any such joint venture, we would be exposed to certain risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. In addition, our operating results would be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise unilateral control and, if any other members of such joint venture were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise fail to perform its obligations or to manage the joint venture effectively, this could cause us to lose our investment in any such joint venture entity. Satellite Failures or Degradations in Satellite Performance Could Affect Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations We utilize capacity on our WildBlue-1 satellite and Telesat Canada’s Anik F2 satellite to support our WildBlue service. Satellites are subject to in-orbit risks including malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, interference from electrostatic storms, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris. Anomalies occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturing errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. If any of the foregoing were to occur on either WildBlue-1 or Anik F2, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations, our ability to generate revenues in our satellite services segment, and our relationships with current customers and distributors, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our satellite broadband services. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby creating additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or backup capacity and potentially reduce revenues if service is interrupted on the satellites we utilize. We may not be able to obtain backup transponder capacity or a replacement satellite on reasonable economic terms or at all. In addition, an increased frequency of anomalies could impact market acceptance of our services. We May be Unable to Obtain or Maintain Required Authorizations or Contractual Arrangements Governmental authorizations are required in connection with the products and services that we provide. In order to maintain these authorizations, compliance with specific conditions of those authorizations, certain laws and regulations, and the payment of annual regulatory fees may be required. Failure to comply with such requirements, or comply in a timely manner, could lead to the loss of such authorizations and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently hold authorizations to, among other things, operate various satellite earth stations, including but not limited to user terminals, “gateway” facilities, and network hubs. While we anticipate that these licenses will be renewed in the ordinary course, or replaced by licenses covering more advanced facilities, we can provide no assurance that this will be the case. The inability to timely obtain required authorizations for future operations could delay or preclude our provision of new products and services. Further, changes to the regulations under which we operate could adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain authorizations. Either circumstance could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our operations also rely upon authorizations held by other entities with which we have contractual arrangements. The failure of those entities to maintain their respective authorizations, or the termination or expiration of our contractual arrangements with those entities, could have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, in order to provide our WildBlue service, we use Ka-band capacity on the Anik F2 satellite under an agreement with Telesat Canada, and we may do so until the end of the useful life of that satellite. Telesat Canada operates that satellite under authority granted to it by the government of Canada. We also currently use the WildBlue-1 satellite, which we own, and which is co-located with Anik F2 under authority granted to Telesat Canada by the government of Canada, and pursuant to an agreement we have with Telesat Canada that expires upon the end of the useful life of Anik F2. While the end of the useful life of Anik F2 is not expected to occur before 2019, there can be no assurance that will be the case. We also intend to use our ViaSat-1 satellite, which is expected to be launched in 2011, to provide WildBlue service. That satellite will operate under authority granted to ManSat Limited by the governments of the Isle of Man and the United Kingdom, and pursuant to contractual arrangements we have with ManSat Limited that extend past the expected useful life of ViaSat-1. The failure of Telesat Canada or ManSat Limited to maintain their respective authorizations, or the termination or expiration of our contractual arrangements with those entities (including as a result of the premature end of life of Anik F2), could require us to seek alternative satellite capacity for our customers, which may not be available, or which may require the costly and time-consuming process of repointing the antennas of our customers. 18 Table of Contents Our Operating Results Are Difficult to Predict Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to do so in the future. The factors that cause our quarter-to-quarter operating results to be unpredictable include: • a complex and lengthy procurement process for most of our customers or potential customers; • changes in the levels of research and development spending, including the effects of associated tax credits; • cost overruns on fixed-price development contracts; • the difficulty in estimating costs over the life of a contract, which may require adjustment in future periods; • the timing, quantity and mix of products and services sold; • price discounts given to some customers; • market acceptance and the timing of availability of our new products; • the timing of customer payments for significant contracts; • one-time charges to operating income arising from items such as acquisition expenses, impairment of assets and write-offs of assets related to customer non-payments or obsolescence; • the failure to receive an expected order or a deferral of an order to a later period; and • general economic and political conditions. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, it is likely that in one or more future quarters our results may fall below the expectations of analysts and investors, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease. Our Reliance on U.S. Government Contracts Exposes Us to Significant Risks Our government systems segment revenues were approximately 56% of our revenues in fiscal year 2010, 62% of our revenues in fiscal year 2009 and 56% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008, and were derived from U.S. government applications. Therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. government would significantly reduce our revenue. U.S. government business exposes us to various risks, including: • changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies, which may reflect military and political developments; • unexpected contract or project terminations or suspensions; • unpredictable order placements, reductions or cancellations; • reductions or delays in government funds available for our projects due to government policy changes, budget cuts or delays and contract adjustments; • the ability of competitors to protest contractual awards; • penalties arising from post-award contract audits; • the reduction in the value of our contracts as a result of the routine audit and investigation of our costs by U.S. government agencies; 19 Table of Contents • higher-than-expected final costs, particularly relating to software and hardware development, for work performed under contracts where we commit to specified deliveries for a fixed price; • limited profitability from cost-reimbursement contracts under which the amount of profit is limited to a specified amount; • unpredictable cash collections of unbilled receivables that may be subject to acceptance of contract deliverables by the customer and contract close-out procedures, including government approval of final indirect rates; • competition with programs managed by other government contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding; • significant changes in contract scheduling or program structure, which generally result in delays or reductions in deliveries; and • intense competition for available U.S. government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business, including the establishment of compliance procedures. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. ViaSat’s total funded backlog was $521.0 million at April 2, 2010. Substantially all of our U.S. government backlog scheduled for delivery can be terminated at the convenience of the U.S. government because our contracts with the U.S. government typically provide that orders may be terminated with limited or no penalties. If we are unable to address any of the risks described above, or if we were to lose all or a substantial portion of our sales to the U.S. government, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. In the event that appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. From time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, Congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. During such period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and such delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected by a Negative Audit by the U.S. Government As a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by the U.S. government agencies such as the DCMA and DCAA. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor’s compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. 20 Table of Contents The Recent Global Business Environment Could Negatively Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions. The banking system and financial markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. The possibility that certain financial institutions may go out of business has resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. This market turmoil and the recent disruptions in the credit markets have led to reduced levels of capital expenditures, an increase in commercial and consumer delinquencies, rising unemployment, declining consumer and business confidence, bankruptcies and a widespread reduction of business activity generally. These conditions, combined with continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long- term and widespread economic recession, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, unstable housing and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior have contributed to diminished expectations for the U.S. and global economy. The current economic environment may materially adversely affect our business and financial performance in a number of ways. As a result of slowing global economic growth, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, difficulty obtaining financing or insolvency. Existing or potential customers may reduce or postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Potential effects of the credit crisis on our business include: the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, the inability of vendors to fulfill their obligations to us, the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, customer insolvencies and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting our treasury operations. If the global economic slowdown continues for a significant period or there is significant further deterioration in the U.S. or global economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. General economic conditions have significantly affected the ability of many companies to raise additional funding in the capital markets. For example, U.S. credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and resulting in the general unavailability of many forms of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness in the future on favorable terms or at all. These general economic conditions have also adversely affected the trading prices of equity securities of many U.S. companies, including ViaSat, and could significantly limit our ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. If we require additional capital to fund any activities we elect to pursue in addition to our current business expansion efforts and were unable to obtain such capital on terms that we found acceptable or at all, we would likely reduce our investments in such activities or re-direct capital otherwise available for our business expansion efforts. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A Significant Portion of Our Revenues Is Derived from a Few of Our Contracts A small number of our contracts account for a significant percentage of our revenues. Our five largest contracts generated approximately 25% of our revenues in fiscal year 2010, 35% of our revenues in fiscal year 2009 and 44% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008. Our largest revenue producing contracts are related to our tactical data links products, including our MIDS terminals, which generated approximately 19% of our revenues in fiscal year 2010, 21% of our revenues in fiscal year 2009 and 24% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008. Further, we derived approximately 8% of our revenues in fiscal year 2010, 6% of our revenues in fiscal year 2009 and 7% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008 from sales of enterprise VSAT networks and products. The failure of these customers to place additional orders or to maintain these contracts with us for any reason, including any downturn in their business or financial condition or our inability to renew our contracts with these customers or obtain new contracts when they expire, could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. WildBlue, which we acquired in December 2009, generated approximately 8% of our revenues in fiscal year 2009 in its capacity as our customer. A number of our commercial customers have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulties. Many of our commercial customers face risks that are similar to those we encounter, including risks associated with market growth, product defects, acceptance by the market of products and services, and the ability to obtain sufficient capital. Further, many of our customers that provide satellite-based services (including Telesat, Intelsat, Thaicom and Eutelsat) could be materially affected by a satellite failure as well as by partial satellite failure, satellite performance degradation, satellite manufacturing errors and other failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. We cannot assure you that our customers will be successful in managing these risks. If our customers do not successfully manage these types of risks, it could impair our ability to generate revenues 21 Table of Contents and collect amounts due from these customers and materially harm our business. Major communications infrastructure programs, such as proposed satellite communications systems, are important sources of our current and planned future revenues. We also participate in a number of defense programs. Programs of these types often cannot proceed unless the customer can raise substantial funds from either governmental or private sources. As a result, our expected revenues can be adversely affected by political developments or by conditions in private and public capital markets. They can also be adversely affected if capital markets are not receptive to a customer’s proposed business plans. Our Development Contracts May Be Difficult for Us to Comply with and May Expose Us to Third-Party Claims for Damages We are often party to government and commercial contracts involving the development of new products. We derived approximately 14% of our revenues in fiscal year 2010 and 20% of our revenues in both fiscal years 2009 and 2008 from these development contracts. These contracts typically contain strict performance obligations and project milestones. We cannot assure you we will comply with these performance obligations or meet these project milestones in the future. If we are unable to comply with these performance obligations or meet these milestones, our customers may terminate these contracts and, under some circumstances, recover damages or other penalties from us. We are not currently, nor have we always been, in compliance with all outstanding performance obligations and project milestones in our contracts. We cannot assure you that the other parties to any such contract will not terminate the contract or seek damages from us. If other parties elect to terminate their contracts or seek damages from us, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Our Success Depends on the Investment in and Development of New Satellite and Wireless Communications and Secure Networking Products and Our Ability to Gain Acceptance of these Products The wireless and satellite communications and secure networking markets are subject to rapid technological change, frequent new and enhanced product introductions, product obsolescence and changes in user requirements. Our ability to compete successfully in these markets depends on our success in applying our expertise and technology to existing and emerging satellite and wireless communications and secure networking markets, as well as our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis that respond to ever-changing customer requirements, which depends on several factors, including: • our ability to enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; • successful integration of various elements of our complex technologies and system architectures; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • achievement of acceptable product costs; • timely and efficient implementation of our manufacturing and assembly processes and cost reduction efforts; • establishment of close working relationships with major customers for the design of their new wireless communications systems incorporating our products; • development of competitive products and technologies by competitors; • marketing and pricing strategies of our competitors with respect to competitive products; and • market acceptance of our new products. We cannot assure you our product or technology development efforts for communications products will be successful or any new products and technologies we develop, will achieve sufficient market acceptance. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from successfully selecting, developing, manufacturing or marketing new products or enhancements and these efforts could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that such efforts and expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. Due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. In addition, defects may be found in our products after we begin deliveries that could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance. If we are unable to design, manufacture, integrate and market profitable new products for existing or emerging communications markets, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and impair the value of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we believe that significant investments in next generation broadband satellites and associated infrastructure will be required for satellite-based technologies to compete more effectively with terrestrial-based technologies in the consumer and enterprise markets. We are constantly evaluating the opportunities and investments related to the development of these next generation broadband systems. In the event we determine to make a significant investment in the development of such next generation systems, it may require us to undertake debt financing and/or the issuance of additional equity, which could expose us to increased risks and impair the value of our common stock. In addition, if we are unable to effectively or profitably design, manufacture, integrate and market such next generation technologies, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and impair the value of our common stock. Because Our Products Are Complex and Are Deployed in Complex Environments, Our Products May Have Defects that We Discover Only After Full Deployment, which Could Seriously Harm Our Business We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains defects or programming flaws that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. In addition, our products are complex and are designed to be deployed across complex networks. Because of the nature of these products, there is no assurance that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects. As a result, our customers may discover errors or defects in our hardware or software or our products may not operate as expected after they have been fully deployed. If we are unable to cure a product defect, we could experience damage to our reputation, reduced customer satisfaction, loss of existing customers and failure to attract new customers, failure to achieve market acceptance, cancellation of orders, loss of revenue, reduction in backlog and market share, increased service and warranty costs, diversion of development resources, legal actions by our customers, product returns or recalls, issuance of credit to customers and increased insurance costs. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could also result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could seek damages for related losses from us, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly. The occurrence of any of these problems would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Experience Losses from Our Fixed-Price Contracts Approximately 91% of our revenues in fiscal year 2010 and 86% of our revenues in both fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were derived from government and commercial contracts with fixed prices. These contracts carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost burden. We assume greater financial risk on fixed-price contracts than on other types of contracts because if we do not anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract, it may significantly reduce our net profit or cause a loss on the contract. In the past, we have experienced significant cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. We believe a high percentage of our contracts will be at fixed prices in the future. Although we attempt to accurately estimate costs for fixed-price contracts, we cannot assure you our estimates will be adequate or that substantial losses on fixed-price contracts will not occur in the future. If we are unable to address any of the risks described above, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and impair the value of our common stock. Our Reliance on a Limited Number of Third Parties to Manufacture and Supply Our Products and the Components Contained therein Exposes Us to Various Risks Our internal manufacturing capacity is limited and we do not intend to expand our capability in the foreseeable future. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to produce our products and expect to rely increasingly on these manufacturers in the future. In addition, some components, subassemblies and services necessary for the manufacture of our products are obtained from a sole source supplier or a limited group of suppliers. 23 Table of Contents Our reliance on contract manufacturers and on sole source suppliers or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks. We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of required components, and our control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and quality of finished products may be reduced. The process of manufacturing our products and some of our components and subassemblies is extremely complex. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience delays in the delivery of and quality problems with products and components and subassemblies from vendors. Some of the suppliers we rely upon have relatively limited financial and other resources. Some of our vendors have manufacturing facilities in areas that may be prone to natural disasters and other natural occurrences that may affect their ability to perform and deliver under our contract. If we are not able to obtain timely deliveries of components and subassemblies of acceptable quality or if we are otherwise required to seek alternative sources of supply or to substitute alternative technology, or to manufacture our finished products or components and subassemblies internally, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. This failure could also result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. The Markets We Serve Are Highly Competitive and Our Competitors May Have Greater Resources than Us The wireless and satellite communications and secure networking industries are highly competitive and competition is increasing. In addition, because the markets in which we operate are constantly evolving and characterized by rapid technological change, it is difficult for us to predict whether, when and who may introduce new competing technologies, products or services into our markets. Currently, we face substantial competition from domestic and international wireless, satellite and terrestrial-based communications service providers in the commercial and government industries, including BAE Systems, General Dynamics, Gilat, Harris, Hughes Communications, iDirect Technologies, L-3 Communications and Rockwell Collins. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have significant competitive advantages, including strong customer relationships, more experience with regulatory compliance, greater financial and management resources, control over central communications networks and access to technologies not available to us. In addition, some of our customers continuously evaluate whether to develop and manufacture their own products and could elect to compete with us at any time. Our ability to compete may be adversely affected by limits on our capital resources and our ability to invest in maintaining and expanding our market share. Any Failure to Successfully Integrate the WildBlue Acquisition and any Future Strategic Acquisitions Could Adversely Affect Our Business Our future performance will depend in part on whether we can successfully integrate our recently acquired WildBlue business with our satellite services segment in an effective and efficient manner. Integrating our satellite services segment with the WildBlue business will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. In addition, in order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, other strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties relating to the WildBlue acquisition and future acquisitions include: • the difficulty in integrating the WildBlue business and any other newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; • the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from the WildBlue acquisition and any future acquisitions; • the risk of diverting our resources and the attention of our senior management from the operations of our business; • additional demands on management related to the increase in the size and scope of our company following the acquisition; • the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; • difficulties in combining corporate cultures; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of key employees; • difficulties in maintaining relationships with present and potential customers, distributors and suppliers of the acquired business; 24 Table of Contents • costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities of WildBlue or any future acquired business; • difficulties in converting the acquired business information systems to our systems; • delays, difficulties or unexpected costs in the integration, assimilation, implementation or modification of platforms, systems, functions, technologies and infrastructure to support the combined business, as well as maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal accounting controls), procedures and policies; • the risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures or indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses or the capital expenditures needed to develop such businesses; • the risks of entering markets in which we have less experience; and • the risks of potential disputes concerning indemnities and other obligations that could result in substantial costs. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and we cannot be certain that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not know whether we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future or that any strategic investments we make will meet our financial or other investment objectives. Any failure to do so could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to integrate the WildBlue business or any future acquisition successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, growth, operational efficiencies and other benefits that we expect. We cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the WildBlue business or any future acquisition with our business or achieve the desired benefits from the WildBlue acquisition or any future acquisition within a reasonable period of time or at all. Furthermore, to complete future acquisitions we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could cause our earnings per share to decline. The WildBlue Business Has a History of Losses and May Continue to Experience Losses in the Future WildBlue experienced net losses of $28.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and $80.6 million, $126.9 million and $115.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We cannot assure you that the WildBlue business will generate net income in the future on a consistent basis or at all. We cannot estimate with any certainty whether demand for our broadband satellite services will be sufficient for us to maintain or increase the number of WildBlue subscribers. If the WildBlue business fails to achieve profitability, that failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Level of Indebtedness May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Operate Our Business, Remain in Compliance with Debt Covenants, React to Changes in Our Business or the Industry in which We Operate, or Prevent Us from Making Payments on Our Indebtedness As of April 2, 2010, our total indebtedness was $347.9 million, which included $60.0 million in principal amount of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Facility, $12.9 million outstanding under standby letters of credit and $275.0 million in principal amount outstanding of the Notes. On March 23, 2010, we increased the amount of our revolving line of credit under the Credit Facility from $210.0 million to $275.0 million. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences for you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satellite construction, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, product development, satellite construction, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; 25 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions. Any of these risks could materially impact our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Incur Additional Indebtedness, which Could Further Increase the Risks Associated with Our Leverage We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which may include financing relating to ViaSat-1, future satellites, other potential acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. In March 2010, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC for the future sale of an unlimited amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and rights. The securities may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us, by selling security holders, or through underwriters, dealers and agents at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of the offering. If new indebtedness is added to our current level of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We May Not Be Able to Generate Sufficient Cash to Service All of Our Indebtedness and Fund Our Working Capital and Capital Expenditures, and May Be Forced to Take Other Actions to Satisfy Our Obligations under Our Indebtedness, which May Not Be Successful Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Facility, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investment and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, the lenders under our Credit Facility and the holders of the Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our Credit Facility could terminate their commitments to loan money and foreclose against the assets securing the borrowings under our Credit Facility, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could result in you losing your investment in our company. We May Be Unable to Refinance Our Indebtedness We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity, including indebtedness under the indenture governing the Notes and any indebtedness under our Credit Facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Covenants in Our Debt Agreements Restrict Our Business and Could Limit Our Ability to Implement Our Business Plan Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes contain covenants that may restrict our ability to implement our business plan, finance future operations, respond to changing business and economic conditions, secure additional financing, and engage in opportunistic transactions, such as strategic acquisitions. In addition, if we fail to satisfy the covenants contained in our Credit Facility, our ability to borrow under our Credit Facility may be restricted. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to do the following: • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; 26 Table of Contents • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • grant or incur liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • make loans and investments; • pay dividends, make distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • reduce our satellite insurance; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. In addition, our Credit Facility requires us to comply with certain financial covenants, including a maximum senior secured leverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio. Our Credit Facility is secured by first-priority liens on substantially all the assets of the company, including the stock of our subsidiaries, and the assets of the subsidiary guarantors under the facility. If we default under our Credit Facility or the indenture governing the Notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. In the past we have violated our Credit Facility covenants and received waivers for these violations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with our financial or other covenants under our Credit Facility or the indenture governing the Notes or that any covenant violations will be waived in the future. Any violation that is not waived could result in an event of default, permitting our lenders to declare outstanding indebtedness and interest thereon due and payable, and permitting the lenders under our Credit Facility to suspend commitments to make any advance or to require any outstanding letters of credit to be collateralized by an interest bearing cash account, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with our financial or other covenants under our Credit Facility or the indenture governing the Notes, we may need additional financing in order to service or extinguish our indebtedness. We may not be able to obtain financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts under our Credit Facility or the indenture governing the Notes, and any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We Depend on a Limited Number of Key Employees who Would Be Difficult to Replace We depend on a limited number of key technical, marketing and management personnel to manage and operate our business. In particular, we believe our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mark D. Dankberg, and those highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and the development of new products and processes. The competition for these types of personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. Because We Conduct Business Internationally, We Face Additional Risks Related to Global Political and Economic Conditions, Changes in Regulation and Currency Fluctuations Approximately 19% of our revenues in fiscal year 2010, 16% of our revenues in fiscal year 2009 and 18% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008 were derived from international sales. We anticipate international sales will account for an increasing percentage of our revenues over the next several years. Many of these international sales may be denominated in foreign currencies. Because we do not currently engage in, nor do we anticipate engaging in, material foreign currency hedging transactions related to international sales, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in losses from transactions denominated in foreign currencies. This decrease in value could also make our products less price-competitive. 27 Table of Contents There are additional risks in conducting business internationally, including: • unexpected changes in laws, policies and regulatory requirements, including but not limited to regulations related to import-export control; • increased cost of localizing systems in foreign countries; • increased sales and marketing and research and development expenses; • availability of suitable export financing; • timing and availability of export licenses; • imposition of taxes, tariffs, embargoes and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • compliance with a variety of international laws and U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in managing distributors; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • potential difficulty in making adequate payment arrangements; and • potential difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. In addition, some of our customer purchase agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from U.S. laws. We may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under these agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. If we are unable to address any of the risks described above, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. We Expect to Incur Research and Development Costs, which Could Significantly Reduce Our Profitability Our future growth depends on penetrating new markets, adapting existing communications and networking products to new applications and introducing new communications and networking products that achieve market acceptance. Accordingly, we are actively applying our communications and networking expertise to design and develop new hardware and software products and enhance existing products. We spent $27.3 million in fiscal year 2010, $29.6 million in fiscal year 2009 and $32.3 million in fiscal year 2008 on research and development activities. We expect to continue to spend discretionary funds on research and development in the near future. The amount of funds spent on research and development projects is dependent on the amount and mix of customer-funded development, the types and the affordability of the technology being developed. Because we account for research and development as an operating expense, these expenditures will adversely affect our earnings in the near future. Our research and development program may not produce successful results, which could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Our Ability to Protect Our Proprietary Technology Is Limited Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies we use in our products and services. We generally rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secret laws and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality and assignment of intellectual property agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could use the intellectual property we have developed to enhance their own products and services, which could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common 28 Table of Contents stock. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. From time to time, we undertake actions to prevent unauthorized use of our technology, including sending cease and desist letters. In addition, we may be required to commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in such litigation, our rights to enforce such intellectual property may be impaired or we could lose some or all of our rights to such intellectual property. We do not know whether the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, including in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as extensively as in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products. Also, we have delivered certain technical data and information to the U.S. government under procurement contracts, and it may have unlimited rights to use that technical data and information. There can be no assurance that the U.S. government will not authorize others to use that data and information to compete with us. Our Involvement in Litigation Relating to Intellectual Property Claims May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business We may be party to intellectual property infringement claims. Regardless of the merit of these claims, intellectual property litigation can be time consuming and result in costly litigation and diversion of the attention of technical and management personnel. An adverse result in any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. For example, in May 2009 we and certain other equipment manufacturers were sued by Applied Signal Technology in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California for alleged infringement of certain patents. We have developed and maintain a portfolio of patents in the same field of technology as the plaintiff’s patents, and although we intend to vigorously defend against this suit, there can be no assurance that any resolution will not be adverse to us. We may be subject to infringement, invalidity, right to use or ownership claims by third parties or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims in the future. Asserted claims or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products, or components of those products. If our products are found to infringe upon the rights of third parties, we may be forced to (1) seek licenses or royalty arrangements from such third parties, (2) stop selling, incorporating or using products that included the challenged intellectual property, or (3) incur substantial costs to redesign those products that use the technology. We cannot assure you we would be able to obtain any such licenses or royalty arrangements on reasonable terms or at all or to develop redesigned products or, if these redesigned products were developed, they would perform as required or be accepted in the applicable markets. We Rely on the Availability of Third-Party Licenses Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various elements of the technology used to develop these products. We cannot assure you that our existing and future third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to maintain or obtain any third-party license required to sell or develop our products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost. Adverse Resolution of Litigation May Harm Our Operating Results or Financial Condition We are a party to various lawsuits and claims in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our International Sales and Operations Are Subject to Applicable Laws Relating to Trade, Export Controls and Foreign Corrupt Practices, the Violation of Which Could Adversely Affect Our Operations We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us include the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The export of certain satellite hardware, services and technical data relating to satellites is regulated by the U.S. Department of State under ITAR. Other items are controlled for export by the U.S. Department of Commerce under the EAR. We cannot provide services to certain countries subject to U.S. trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally bars bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, more extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. A violation of ITAR or the other regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Changes in the Regulatory Environment Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Competitive Position, Growth and Financial Performance The provision of communications services is highly regulated. Our business is subject to the regulatory authority of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Those authorities regulate, among other things, the launch and operation of satellites, the use of radio spectrum, the licensing of earth stations and other radio transmitters, the provision of communications services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of communications systems and networking infrastructure. We cannot predict when or whether applicable laws or regulations may come into effect or change, or what the cost and time necessary to comply with such new or updated laws or regulations may be. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in the imposition of financial penalties against us, the adverse modification or cancellation of required authorizations, or other material adverse actions. Laws and regulations affecting the communications industry are subject to change in response to industry developments, new technology, and political considerations. Legislators and regulatory authorities in various countries are considering, and may in the future adopt, new laws, policies and regulations, as well as changes to existing regulations, regarding a variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations or the operations of our distribution partners, and increase the cost of providing our products and services. These changes could materially harm our business by (1) affecting our ability to obtain or retain required governmental authorizations, (2) restricting our ability to provide certain products or services, (3) restricting development efforts by us and our customers, (4) making our current products and services less attractive or obsolete, (5) increasing our operational costs, or (6) making it easier or less expensive for our competitors to compete with us. Changes in, or our failure to comply with, applicable regulations could materially harm our business and impair the value of our common stock. Future Sales of Our Common Stock Could Lower Our Stock Price and Dilute Existing Stockholders In March 2010, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC for the future sale of an unlimited amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and rights. The securities may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us, by selling security holders, or through underwriters, dealers or agents at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of the offering. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions through the use of equity. For example, during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 we issued approximately 4.29 million shares of our common stock to the WildBlue Investors in connection with our acquisition of WildBlue, certain of which entered into lock-up agreements with us prohibiting any transfers for 60 days and restricting any transfers thereafter to daily and monthly sales limitations until November 6, 2010, subject to limited exceptions. Sales of such shares could cause our stock price to decrease. Additionally, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are available for future sale pursuant to stock options, warrants or issuance pursuant to our 1996 Equity Participation Plan of ViaSat, Inc. and the ViaSat, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options and warrants or in connection with acquisition financing), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, these sales may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We Expect Our Stock Price to Be Volatile, and You May Lose All or Some of Your Investment The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past. For example, since April 2, 2001, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $3.91 to $36.49. Trading prices may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in operating results and announcements of innovations; • new products, services and strategic developments by us or our competitors; • developments in our relationships with our customers, distributors and suppliers; • regulatory developments; • changes in our revenues, expense levels or profitability; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; 30 Table of Contents • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts; • changes in the satellite and wireless communications and secure networking industries; and • changes in the economy. Any of these events may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for technology companies in particular have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our Executive Officers and Directors Own a Large Percentage of Our Common Stock and Exert Significant Influence over Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval As of May 21, 2010, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 13% of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders may be able to substantially influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of these stockholders could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. These stockholders could delay or prevent a change in control of ViaSat even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our other stockholders. We Have Implemented Anti-Takeover Provisions that Could Prevent an Acquisition of Our Business at a Premium Price Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our business, even if a change in control of ViaSat would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders and was made at a premium price. These provisions: • permit the board of directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies; • provide for a board comprised of three classes of directors with each class serving a staggered three-year term; • authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock in one or more series; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 